ParlaMint-IT_2017-04-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-803.ana.u1	The sitting is open (9:33 a.m.). The Minutes shall be read. Mr Pegorer, Secretary, read the Minutes of the afternoon sitting of the previous day.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-04-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-803.ana.u2	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-04-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-803.ana.u3	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-04-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-803.ana.u4	MARTELLI (M5S). Madam President, I would like to ask for the vote on the Minutes, subject to a quorum check. Verification of quorum
ParlaMint-IT_2017-04-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-803.ana.u5	I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators, by electronic procedure. (The request is supported). I therefore call on the senators to make their presence known by electronic means. (Follows the quorum check.) The Senate has a quorum. Resumption of the debate on the Minutes I put the Minutes to the vote. It's approved.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-04-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-803.ana.u6	The list of senators on leave and absent on assignment received from the Senate, as well as further communications to the Assembly, will be published in Annex B to today's Minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-04-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-803.ana.u7	I would warn you that qualified votes can be taken in the course of today's sitting by electronic means. Therefore, from this moment the period of 20 minutes from the notice provided for in Article 119, paragraph 1, of the Regulation (9:37 hours) begins.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-04-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-803.ana.u8	The next item is the joint debate on documents XXIII, Nos. 10 and 23. The reports have already been printed and distributed. I call Senator Fornaro to explain.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-04-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-803.ana.u9	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, I speak by delegation from the Bureau of the Parliamentary Committee of Inquiry into the abduction and death of Aldo Moro and, on a matter of uniformity, I give the Offices the full text of the speech made to the House of Members by the President of the Commission, Mr Fioroni. Today I will briefly explain - as President Fioroni did to the House - the first report on the work carried out, which the Commission unanimously approved at its meeting on 10 December 2015, and the second report, which was adopted with one abstention, at its meeting on 20 December 2016, and which I warmly invite to deepen. First of all, I would like to emphasise this broad sharing, which demonstrates the seriousness of the approach with which all political forces and Commissioners have approached one of the most serious events in republican history, a sort of dark place of memory, which has long conditioned national life, also because it has not been possible to fully correspond to an indispensable need for truth. The Commission has received a mandate from the law to establish new elements that can complement the knowledge acquired by the previous parliamentary committees of inquiry and possible responsibilities in the matter of the abduction and murder of Aldo Moro. In order to do this, it had to deal with the results of five trials and two parliamentary investigations, but also with a very large publicity. In view of this situation, which has fueled many speculations about the alleged uselessness of a parliamentary inquiry into the subject, so many years after the events, the Commission has set itself the objective of acquiring certain documentary evidence. [[Brusio.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-04-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-803.ana.u10	Colleagues, the rapporteur cannot speak: I would ask you, if you are not interested, to leave the Chamber for a matter of respect for the subject of the report, which seems very important to me.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-04-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-803.ana.u11	The Commission has set itself the objective of obtaining documentary evidence and legally appreciable evidence, possibly even in the courts. In the light of the findings, it can be said that this choice of method, shared by the Commission as a whole, has made it possible to submit to a critical review all the investigations carried out in the past by the judiciary and previous parliamentary bodies, highlighting gaps and limitations and identifying new elements that contribute to defining an interpretation of the Moro affair in many new aspects. This has happened not without difficulties. The death of many direct witnesses, the pertinence of some brigadeists, the reluctance of others and, in some cases, the disappearance of the same investigation documentation, were a serious problem. On the other hand, the use of new technologies and investigative methodologies has made it possible to carry out previously impossible investigations. The two reports on the Commission's activities are not yet - and I would like to emphasise this - an overall interpretation of the Moro affair, which will be done by the Commission when drawing up the final report. They are, in some cases, more advanced and in others less likely to be the subject of issues and issues which will find their definitive solution in the final report. Of course, there is no account in the Commission's investigations and investigations which are still being carried out, and even less so in the case of the Republic's attorney at the Court of Rome and the General Prosecutor at the Court of Appeal in Rome, in the context of a close institutional cooperation relationship with our Commission. Within the time available, I will take into account the main details that, as has already been said, seem to outline an innovative interpretation on many aspects of the Moro affair. Let's start with the massacre in Via Fani. The Commission identified the scope of the investigation to be developed following mainly the chronological order of the facts under investigation. From this point of view, attempts were first made to reconstruct the exact dynamics of the massacre in Via Fani on 16 March 1978 and to clarify many questions that remained open about the number of terrorists who took part in it, about the logistical support that they could possibly enjoy, about how to escape from the crime scene. To this end, new ballistic tests were carried out and many witnesses of the massacre were heard, including some who had not previously made depositions either to the parliamentary committees or to the judiciary. The Commission has found several elements that seem to indicate that there was a strong awareness of a security alert for Moro that was not adequately evaluated. In addition to the reports that came from the Beirut Sismi Centre on an imminent terrorist action, it raises many questions that in the days immediately preceding the massacre of Via Fani the chief of the Police and the director of the Digos of Rome went to the study of Moro to confer with him or with his collaborators. So the reconstruction of the timing of the movements of the manager of the Digos of Rome, on the morning of the massacre of Via Fani, would seem to indicate at least an early awareness that an act of terrorism had been carried out, if not predicted, at least feared. With regard to the reconstruction of the dynamics of the Brigatist action of Via Fani, the work of the scientific police was particularly important, which allowed, for the first time, to reconstruct, thanks to the new technologies now available, the trajectories of the shots or the fire cones on the basis of surveys carried out in the cars involved. In the course of the investigations several elements were also collected on the presence in via Fani of a bike of great displacement, which some witnesses have described as directly involved in the action of the brigadeists and others instead as present immediately after the attack on the cars of Moro and his escort. On the basis of these partly divergent testimonies, the presence of two different vehicles, on which investigations are still ongoing, cannot be excluded. As for the presences 'ndranghetiste in via Fani, the Commission has also examined the issue of a series of presences - even non-Brigatista - at the crime scene, also through new excussions of witnesses. The investigations, which are still under way, have examined a number of issues, on which the final report will give a final assessment. I limit myself here to recalling the fact that the photographic comparison activities delegated to RIS of the carabinieri have led to formulate the hypothesis of the presence, at the scene of the crime, of an exponent 'ndranghetista, Antonio Nirta (class 1946), of which already in the past some repentant had suggested a participation in the story Moro. Such presence, perhaps linked to the existence - as I will say later - of arms trafficking, could also be in relation to the disappearance of some rolls of photos taken in via Fani that some witnesses have declared to have delivered to the investigators and then no longer present to the acts. As regards the Olivetti bar and the arms trade, the Commission has long questioned a possible function in the dynamics of the action of the aforementioned bar, which was located at the intersection between Via Fani and Via Stresa, right in front of the place where the terrorist ambush took place. I remember that the bar has never been investigated despite the fact that the same brigadeists have declared that they have waited for the arrival of Moro's cars and the escort hidden behind the flower boxes of the bar, which had failed a few months before. The Commission has found that the investigations carried out at the time on the bar and its owner remained inexplicably in an embryonic state, despite the fact that a SISMI information to the Carabinieri, drawn up a few days after Moro's death, indicated that the closure of the bar, due to a strange failure, had made it technically possible for the brigadeist action. The Commission's findings also showed that the owner of the bar during 1977 had been involved in an investigation into an international arms trade involving the 'ndrangheta and Lebanon', and had not been heard by the investigators as it had become irretrievable. The investigation of arms trafficking had then declined, because it had been accepted the thesis that they were toy weapons or scenic weapons, that is not immediately usable and because of a medical expertise of professors Ferracuti and Semerari, who had identified elements of mitomania in the main defendant of this procedure. On the other hand, thanks to the investigations carried out by the General Prosecutor of Rome and a series of excusions and hearings by the Commission, it was established that the weapons being trafficked could easily be made efficient by workshops which, at the time, operated for organised crime. Hence the hypothesis, in the course of verification, that the bar Olivetti was in relation to arms trafficking involving organized crime. In this respect, the Commission has carried out a careful analysis of the bullets used by the brigadeists in Via Fani, which showed that - contrary to what has been said and established so far - the bullets used in the ambush came from consignments produced by Fiocchi company not marketed in Italy and destined for export. In particular, it seems possible that the bullets in question came from consignments exported to the Middle East and then returned to Italy in ways still under investigation. Another chapter is dedicated to the escape of the brigadeists and to the possible den of the Balduina. Also in relation to the massacre of Via Fani and the escape, on March 16, 1978, of the brigadeists with the hostage, the review of the testimonies acquired at the time and the acquisition of new documentation has led to formulate many reservations on the plausibility of the reconstruction provided by the terrorists about escape and abandonment of the used cars, which were found in the same street several hours away from each other. From here we have developed the search for a possible point of support or a real brigatist lair in the area of the Balduina. In this respect, the evidence gathered showed that there was a building in the area that could have had a specific function, at least in the first phase of the seizure. It is a building that turns out to have hosted, in the previous months and in those after the seizure, for even long periods, both a foreign subject linked to the area of autonomy, as well as subjects of the former Workers' Power, and a fugitive brigadeist. I limit myself to this brief remark because the acts of this investigation, still in progress, have been properly transmitted to the Public Prosecutor of Rome and thus remain, at this stage, covered by functional secrecy. I will now deal with the international dimension of the Moor affair and the relations between Italy and the Middle East. With regard to the fifty-five-day dynamics of the seizure, the Commission has begun a deepening of the international dimension of the matter. This is not on the basis of simplistic hypotheses, to be clear relative to a heterodirection of the Red Brigades, but because the seizure was objectively a great event of international politics, on which the attention of countries and forces variedly interested in influencing the possible outcome and, more generally, on Italian politics. In this context a massive excavation was carried out on the theme of the role of Palestinian movements in the Moro affair, which produced results of great novelty both on the subject of the relationship between the Red Brigades and the Palestinians and on the relationship between the Italian Government and the Palestinian leadership. The deepening began from the message that Colonel Stefano Giovannone, head of SISMI centre in Beirut, sent on February 17, 1978 to launch an alert on a possible terrorist action, as reported to him by environments close to George Habbash and the Popular Front for the liberation of Palestine. The subsequent deepenings made it possible to highlight a close relationship between the Italian authorities and the Palestinian movements during the seizure period, to the point that the Palestinians themselves became protagonists of an attempt to negotiate for the liberation of Aldo Moro. The second report analysed a number of documents of interest which highlight two elements. The first is the contemporaneity of the departure from Beirut to Rome of Giovannone, on April 24, with the letters of Moro from the Brigatist prison that required the presence in Rome of Colonel Giovannone and called for a negotiation between the State and the brigadeists, recalling the example of the story of the Palestinians that Italy had fled after the attack of Fiumicino in 1973. When Giovannone left for Rome, it does not appear, moreover, that the letters of Moro to Pennacchini, Dell'Andro and Piccoli were still delivered and this poses the problem of which channels existed between the prison of Moro and the Italian Government. The second point is that this negotiation, of which both the Minister of Defence and the Minister of the Interior of the time were aware, appears promising at the end of April 1978, so much so that the representative in Rome of Arafat, Nemer Hammad, asked for a meeting in Cossiga: "to represent the availability and interest of the PLO leadership to a form of permanent collaboration between Palestinian and Italian security services." At the beginning of May, while other negotiations were also under way, such as that promoted by Craxi, this initiative to free Moro was blocked, for reasons not yet clarified. A block that perhaps prompted Arafat himself to launch, on May 5, 1978, a public appeal for the liberation of Aldo Moro. The Commission is deepening this delicate passage, which calls into question many questions: that of practicability, for the Italian Government, of a road that would make evident the nature of the agreements that the country maintained with the Palestinians; that of the existence, within the Red Brigades, of different lines on the fate of Moro; the question, finally, of the existence of a jagged galaxy of Palestinian movements, which did not necessarily recognize themselves in the official positions expressed by the PLO. At the state of the investigation, it can be said that the Moro affair and its tragic conclusion are not separable from the wider international context of the relationship between Italy and the Middle East, in all its aspects, from that of arms trafficking to that of the relationship between internal terrorism and Middle East terrorism. Of particular importance in this area is an information, which the Commission is deepening, which the Sismi Centre in Beirut transmitted in June 1978. According to this information, the Red Brigades had transmitted to the Popular Front for the liberation of Palestine some parts of the interrogations suffered by Moro who could have had interest in Palestinian movements. This news would confirm, therefore, a political use of Moro's papers and statements, after his death, long assumed but never demonstrated until now, and would also confirm the hypothesis of the incompleteness of Moro's memorial found in Milan in via Montenevoso. Another strand concerning the international dimension of the Moro affair which the Commission has taken up is the so-called Superclan and Hyperion Language School, that is to say, the group of characters who, after having separated from the founding core of the Red Brigades, mostly moved to France and Belgium in 1974-75, creating a language school in France and a translation company in Belgium. The subject has been the subject of various judicial proceedings in the past, which - it should be remembered - have been concluded with the full acquittal of the accused. However, the Commission is reviewing the elements that seem to indicate the existence in Paris of coordination between the main terrorist organisations operating in Europe (RAF, IRA, ETA, Action Director and Red Brigades) and the Front for the Fight for the Liberation of Palestine. In particular, the Commission is deepening the movements in Italy of persons related to those circles precisely during the seizure of Moro. Finally, with regard to the international dimension, investigations have been carried out on possible operational contacts between the German terrorists of the RAF and the Red Brigades. Such contacts, well documented for periods other than the Moro seizure, could also have been carried out during the seizure, on the basis of information that will be the subject of a request for judicial assistance to the German judiciary. With regard to the negotiations, the existence, between the end of April and the beginning of May, of an attempt to negotiate through the Palestinian movements is a further step confirming that, at that stage, the so-called official line of firmness had been at least partially overcome by a different approach. In this context, the Commission has taken up an analysis of the matter, which has been known since 1979, which saw some leaders of the Socialist Party contact Franco Piperno and Lanfranco Pace, the leader of the Autonomy, to open negotiations with the Red Brigades on the fate of Moro. Peace, as is well known, had numerous meetings with both Morucci and Faranda, who did not arrive at a positive solution, for reasons on which different hypotheses were formulated. The recent hearings of Claudio Signorile, at the time deputy secretary of the Socialist Party (who played a fundamental role in this affair), and other socialists, have allowed to acquire several new elements. In the first place it was pointed out that this negotiation probably began earlier than hitherto known and involved an attempt to activate a plurality of channels, both in Rome and Milan. Secondly, in this case too, it can be assumed that there has been full institutional awareness. Both the Minister of the Interior of the time and the Deputy Commander of the Carabinieri Army would in fact have been aware of Signorile's contacts. The same Signorile, as he said at the hearing, was at Cossiga on the morning of 9 May 1978, when he received - according to Signorile on time prior to what has so far been known - the news of the discovery of the corpse of Aldo Moro. The excussions and hearings also revealed the hypothesis, which will be deepened, of the existence of a further channel of negotiation, involving socialist representatives and circles of Milanese autonomy. According to the Commission, the latter may have had copies of Moro's letters available before they were disclosed. Coming to the arrest of Valerio Morucci and Adriana Faranda, the affair of the socialist negotiation helped to open a fracture between the area of Valerio Morucci and Adriana Faranda on the one hand and the majority part of the Red Brigades on the other, which ended in February 1979 with the escape of the two terrorists from the Red Brigades. After their arrest, in May 1979, the two began a decoupling process, which led them to elaborate the famous and so-called Morucci Memorial. This, with its partial admissions, contributed to the decisive foundation of the judicial truth on the Moro case, then consolidated in the early nineties. For this very reason, the Commission has deepened the story of Morucci and Faranda, their relationship with the area of Autonomy, the way - never completely clarified - of their arrest. Valerio Morucci and Adriana Faranda, as is known, were arrested a few months after their departure from the BR and the attempt to create an autonomous armed party, on May 29, 1979, in the house of Giuliana Conforto, where they had taken refuge thanks to the help of Franco Piperno and Lanfranco Pace. Giuliana Conforto, close to circles of political extremism, was the daughter of Giorgio Conforto, one of the main KGB agents in Italy, for some time also in relation to our Services and - according to what has been reported to us in audition by General Cornacchia - also with the CIA. Until today, the story of the capture of Morucci and Faranda had been rebuilt more or less in these terms: the DIGOS and the mobile team of Rome were able to carry out the operation, thanks to the report of an unidentified source, which revealed the hiding place of the two terrorists in the apartment of Viale Giulio Caesar. The Commission has worked to identify the "source" starting from the two main thesis expressed over the years: that of police chief Ansoino Andreassi, who stated that the Police arrived at the den on the basis of a dry and precise information, coming from environments not related to the exversion and that of Francesco Cossiga, who in 2004 told the Parliamentary Committee of Inquiry concerning the Mitrokhin dossier that he had learned from the then head of the mobile team Ferdinando Masone (at the time already deceased) that it had been Giorgio Conforto, the father of Giuliana, to leak the news of the refuge of Morucci and Faranda. Compared to these assumptions, the Commission's investigations have made it possible to acquire certain and documentable elements. In particular, a petty officer was identified, at the time in service to the mobile team in Rome, who confirmed that the news came from his confidants, who ran a car salon in Portuense area. Further investigations have allowed to ascertain an old knowledge between one of the two managers and Valerio Morucci and to find other findings among the material seized at the time in the lair of Viale Giulio Cesare. This discovery has been deepened with further investigations, which have led the Commission to formulate the hypothesis of a sort of "double level" in the identification of the lair of Viale Giulio Caesar. In fact, there are several documentary evidence of an autonomous activation of the DIGOS around Giuliana Conforto. Moreover, the same was the subject of an extremely mild treatment, which allowed her to leave the case because she was accepted the thesis of her substantial unawareness of the identity of her guests. I remember that in the lair of Viale Giulio Caesar was found the machine gun skorpion with which Aldo Moro was killed. The hypothesis on which the Commission is working is that a kind of negotiated delivery of Morucci and Faranda has matured, probably with the competition of Conforto, of which the Italian Services, as said, knew the activities well, as is shown by informations dating back to the early seventies. Despite this, on that occasion, there was no deepening of Comfort and the information already in possession of the Services was transmitted to the judiciary only in oral form. The Commission intends to present as soon as possible the results of a specific study on these assumptions which, if verified, would open scenarios very different from those known, not only on the capture of Morucci and Faranda, but on the same origins as their decoupling path. Finally, there are a number of further open avenues of investigation. I would just like to mention here the details of the possible role of the 'ndrangheta', the presence of police infiltrators within left-wing extremism, the ways of discovering the brigatist typography of via Pio Foà, in Rome, the story of the discovery of the lair of via Gradoli and the role of Tony Chichiarelli, author of the false press release of April 18, 1978. Central is, of course, the reconstruction of Moro's death in all its aspects: the place and times of the assassination, the manner in which it happened, the transport of the corpse in Via Caetani, the times when the news came to the authorities. The major doubts about the version provided by the brigades over the years have led the Commission to review this issue as a whole. A first firm point could be reached, shortly, with the results of the exams delegated to the Department of Scientific Investigation (RIS) of the Carabinieri. At the same time, the Commission intends to explore - on the basis of the new elements acquired - the theme of a possible role of the "Genoese pillar" of the Red Brigades precisely in the last phase of the seizure and murder of Moro. In conclusion, in the perspective of the drafting of the final report, the complex of the deepenings seems to highlight numerous critical profiles in the investigations carried out at the time on the seizure Moro. It is the Commission's intention to make every effort to ensure that the areas of opacity - already detected by the previous Commissions - the reluctances and inconsistencies present in the versions of the brigadeists, the omissions of certain political and institutional representatives are finally overcome by a comprehensive reconstruction of the Moro affair that can benefit from the great work done. To this end, it seems essential to proceed as quickly as possible to the conclusion of the delegated investigations and to the acquisition of documents of interest, in particular that produced by Services of foreign countries, which involves necessarily long procedures for declassification and making available. In this context, the Commission has found a lot of collaboration in the Government and the Delegated Authority for the security of the Republic, but the fact remains that in several countries there are extremely restrictive rules and practices in these areas, which could also allow very important acquisitions. The subject of documentation is also central in another respect. In fact, the Commission has been able to verify that in many cases the documentation itself, especially judicial, is dispersed between multiple places, stored in a way that is not adequate for long-term preservation and lacking effective research tools. In the same way, the findings of the massacre of Via Fani and of the seizure sometimes fall in conditions of degradation. We believe that a commitment must be made to address the overall issue of the protection and valorization of documents so important for Italian history, even overcoming a natural tendency of public and private bodies to a jealous and not always adequate preservation of cards. Precisely in this historical and political context, in which old ideological belongings are now obsolete, it seems finally possible to deal with an affair that was not simply a serious episode of terrorism, but that had lasting effects - as everyone knows - in the life of the country. In the Commission's view, the new acquisitions made and the convergence of political forces on the objective of eliminating shadow areas that have not yet been clarified, despite the commitment of the law enforcement agencies, the judiciary and the previous Commissions, make close the objective - which we are working on - of finally achieving as complete and shared a reconstruction as possible. It is an opportunity that, after so many years, cannot be missed, for the obligation of truth that is owed to the country on one of the most tragic pages of our recent history. [[Applause from the PD Groups, Art.1-MDP and Misto-SI-SEL, and Senators Buemi and Airola.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-04-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-803.ana.u12	Thank you, Senator Fornaro, for this important report. I note that the motions for resolutions to the documents before us can be tabled before the conclusion of the joint debate. Senator Cervellini is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-04-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-803.ana.u13	Madam President, my sharing of Senator Fornaro's timely report allows me to make some specific considerations and to focus only on a few specific aspects. Senators and senators, we know that one or more murders are one or more murders. All equal, for the pain they bring to the relatives, for the emptiness they produce with the disappearance of the loved ones, to a few or to many. And the responsibilities of the murderers do not change according to the degree of awareness of the perpetrators of these crimes. All innocent victims deserve everything to be done to ensure that those responsible are brought to justice and, if there are, senders. Always. On the massacre of Via Fani and the killing of Aldo Moro, however, there is one more: it impacts on history, changes its path and marks one of those events that make it say that nothing was more like before. That the killing of Aldo Moro and his escort took place at the hands of the Red Brigades is an incontrovertible fact. History will have to understand how a phenomenon can be produced in some ways not mass but widespread, which has gone through a couple of generations. Numerous surveys, publications, and others will follow. The original element of this Commission is that - it does not appear a paradox - the long time spent, therefore the changed geopolitical framework and the extraordinary technological innovation that has taken place, have enabled us to be able to determine with certainty that at via Fani the BR were not alone: there was in fact the presence and awareness of important exponents of organized crime, of the main foreign and national services, of the armed bodies of the State. Among these, how deviant or, rather, how faithful (who have often paid with life) were they an exception to the norm that saw them faithful not to the Constitution as to membership of secret structures, under orders from an Atlanticist power? A power that was married to that balance of Yalta that Mr Aldo Moro dramatically called into question and in crisis. Let's think about the presence of P2 and Gladio within the vast majority of the Carabinieri Arm. Usually, at this point start the cries of conspiracy, which says: Things are clear, there are murderers, the motivations of these even though aberrant, there are confessions. What are you looking for? What you found, you went looking for; that is, that the levels of infiltration in the BR go back from the origins of these. The role of structures realized for the purpose was essential and always underestimated (think of the "Hyperion") but even made strategic, placing exponents in the ganglia of the investigative activity; there were exponents of the BR and at the same time advisors of the Ministry; on the crisis committee of the then Interior Minister Cossiga there was Steve Pieczenik, former official of the U.S. Department of State. If there was awareness among the protagonists of the heinous murders it is relatively important: the objectivity of what happened is fundamental. There is a figure which the Commission has been able to dispose of and which today enables the Italian Parliament to know that that school of translation and languages, in addition to its headquarters in Paris, had opened, and then closed after the tragic events, located in Italy, here in Rome, two hundred steps from where the body of Aldo Moro was found: Piazza Campitelli, Via Nicotera, Viale Angelico. I, who am of a certain age and who have difficulties with respect to the powerful technological innovations (to which I referred), which so much help the trails of investigation, understand the difficulty of many and many young people, mainly MPs and MPs, not to sometimes understand, in absolute good faith, as in the 1970s, to carry out those crimes, having a logistics was a fundamental element for a clandestine and criminal action. A network that, with the technologies of then, allowed to bring the questions that then composed the memorial and all the missing parts to which Senator Fornaro referred, and read the answers, or listen with the technology of then questions and answers in a fast way. Today the technology cancels the spaces, but in those years not. A network of this kind, well-protected and organized, is fundamental and makes a difference. To make it clear to the non-staff, I think of the headquarters in Normandy of Hyperion, which could be considered a small Pentagon, as it was shielded and protected by the French secret services and with the force of being able to stop the investigation of the investigators. Aware or an instrument? Definitely the one and the other. Some in one way, some in another. That's for terrorists. For services the demand is, however, not so much if aware or instrument, but incapable or unfaithful. You can't answer each other here. Of the two the one and the infidelity is prevalent. Then, as in all things, there are inabilitys, material errors and individual inadequacys, but the fundamental element that I personally see is this. In fact, no one with the elementary information about the tragic story and even the knowledge of the physical subjects can reasonably argue that the interrogations were conducted exclusively by the jailers we know through the various memorials. Then it is necessary to open nearby locations to have a collective processing and management and at the highest level of interrogation and results. As for international management, as stated by some investigators who have dealt with the Moro affair, historically Hyperion is known as a compensation chamber of what I said (Yalta's balance), within which we find all the main secret services, from the CIA, the KGB, the French Services, Mossad, the Palestinians (whose presence was remembered and there is no doubt). I believe that in this respect we must absolutely open up some doors and follow paths, some of which the Commission undertook in an original way during the 17th legislature. Finally, with reference to the resolution adopted by the House of Deputies, we have added one more specific element that I consider significant (I do not say fundamental, because nothing is). I note, in fact, that this was the first government, in the figure of the current President of the Council, then Minister for Foreign Affairs, to have asked for the extradition of Alessio Casimirri, for the first time. Previously there had been missions of the Services, the same ones that granted him shelter abroad, a shelter covered, guaranteed and laudably paid. Precisely because they were very expensive missions, I believe that - as we rightly expect the Senate - in the resolution that we are about to approve must contain this specificity: the explicit request to put in place all diplomatic and international policy actions aimed at obtaining the extradition of this terrorist. The lack of this represents a black hole, which allows the evident reluctance of other members of the Red Brigades; their procedural position, in fact, is closed. I have considered it appropriate - and I take responsibility for this - to speak of obvious reluctance over the years, but their position is closed, and indeed would risk being reopened with changes and new statements. The device would jump if there were the extradition of a protagonist of those heinous episodes and of the massacre, which nothing has paid and which still has to legally answer for its position. The availability for the Italian State of Casimirri can represent the wedge in the gear that has worked so far; the gearing of the false truths, that things have gone like this, except then add people and modify circumstances when individual elements have emerged and you could no longer claim that the number was that, the jailers were those. We must create a virtuous domino effect; I know that it is difficult, for objective conditions and because, if it has not been done before, there will be a reason. I do not think it has been a forgetfulness; I am talking about the governments, about Italian politics; I am not talking about investigators. Here we are in the seat of politics and institutions: the Assembly of the Senate of the Republic. (at 10.22 p.m.) (Following CERVELLINI). We owe it to the many victims who marked those years, to the faithful servants of the State, who fell under the blows of terrorism, to the civilians and their relatives. We owe it to Aldo Moro, who, while aware of the certain risks he was facing, did not retreat, did not give up, evidently did not agree. His mild tenacity compels us to do so. Let us put in place all the extraordinary initiatives aimed at achieving the result. I am not against anyone, State or political party, but in favour of the truth, which cannot subjugate any logic of Realpolitik. And knowing the truth will do everyone good, especially Italian politics, who needs it so much now. [[Applause from the Misso-SI-SEL Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-04-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-803.ana.u14	We salute the President of the Parliamentary Committee of Inquiry into the abduction and death of Aldo Moro, Mr Fioroni, who follows our work. [[Applause]] He's enlisted to speak Senator Malan. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-04-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-803.ana.u15	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, in a year's time, forty years will have passed since Mr Aldo Moro was kidnapped and killed. Someone is certainly critical of the decision to make a Commission of inquiry into these matters. It is undoubtedly a questionable choice, but as far as the Commission's work is concerned, I would like to thank its members for their work, starting with the President, but also all the members, because the report shows a commitment to try to give an objective picture of what the Commission has done. Then, of course, everyone can draw their own conclusions from there. The Commission's work still allows us to talk about this affair which, curiously, is somewhat ignored by the media. Not so much the story itself, because everyone has heard - and we would miss - about the kidnapping and killing of Aldo Moro, although all too often we forget the killing of the men of his escort. What we forget is the picture of the events connected with it. It seems impossible, even for a certain amnesia of the great media of information and production of mass culture, that in a period of time not so far the situation was such that in our country there were those who supported the blockade of the Soviet Union. As has also been extensively established by other parliamentary committees of inquiry, this block had precise plans of military invasion of the West: in particular of Italy, with particular regard to the Po Valley. In this context, there were various ideological currents that were, more or less, in favour of a variously interpreted proletarian revolution. For some the model was Mao's China, for others it was the Russian revolution of 1917, for others the model was the Cuban one or the Vietnamese one and, even, for some it was even the Cambodian model. To be honest, all models that have generated thousands, when not millions, of deaths. In this context, there were various ways of interpreting this tension towards the proletarian revolution. At the time, in the 1970s and 1980s, when we were talking about Red Brigades, most of the media were talking about "sedient Red Brigades." Let us remember here that at the time the color of the Communist Party was red, and certainly not blue or other colors. The sense of this statement was that they said they were red but, in reality, they were the result of who knows what machinations of American Secret Service and right-wing environments that were passed through left-wing environments. 40 years later, it is good to remember that the Red Brigades were just red. This does not mean that all those who believed in the ideals of the left, socialists and communists, were united in it: of course not. But they were a left-wing movement. Obviously extreme left, but its exponents all came from various environments of the left. That doesn't mean the left was in favor of the Red Brigades. In fact, some of his exponents fought them. But the point is that the Red Brigades were not "sedient," but red, of a particular red, in which most of those who militated on the left were not at all involved. But it was. That was the reality. Why did they kidnap Aldo Moro? Because, in the context of their ideology, Aldo Moro was the promoter of what was at the time called the historical compromise, that is, the agreement between Christian Democracy and the Communist Party, by far the two major parties of that time, which together gathered about 70% (depending on the elections) of the consensus. As a promoter of this agreement which, precisely in 1978, resulted in a government that had to have the outside support of the Communist Party, it was seen, Aldo Moro, as the enemy of the true proletarian revolution. In fact, one cannot make the proletarian revolution by allying himself with the party that represented the opponents. The party which was considered, and which was, Western thread, pro-American and certainly not favorable to the proletarian revolution. According to these extremists, if the agreement had come to a successful conclusion, there would have been no proletarian revolution, which needs great masses. The crazy ideology of these gentlemen was to strike the agreement between Christian Democracy and the Communist Party, so that at least a part of the world that belonged to the Communist Party - we are talking about a huge party that with the votes of then would be the largest party, although at the time only the second - could be involved with great resources and an entire economic apparatus alongside, with great entrances into the world of culture and information. With the kidnapping and murder of Aldo Moro they proposed to make the proletarian revolution possible again. There may have been external infiltrators in the Red Brigades, but the bulk of the militancy of that movement and terrorist group was this. They did it for these ideals. Then someone infiltrated and managed to direct them in one way or another, but these were the ideals. The Red Brigades were red. Another aspect of the matter is that it is possible for the Soviet Union to go in that direction for the same reasons as the Red Brigades, albeit with a very different profile. I appreciate that the report mentions the disappearance of the mysterious safe or wardrobe of the Ministry of Defence, where there were several things. According to some hypotheses formulated during the work of the Mitrokhin Commission in the 14th legislature, among these things there were important papers concerning the organization of our military defenses in the North East area, which was the one from which the attack of the Soviet bloc would have come if this had occurred and, in particular, from the Brenner. It was conceivable that the attack came from the Friuli-Venezia Giulia area. The plans were then revealed, but the media did not give you any weight, perhaps because in the media many militated at the time in left-wing formations, often very extreme and close to ideology and people who actually acted with terrorist actions. These documents could allow the Soviet bloc to overcome the defenses we had at the borders as quickly as possible. At that time we were joking about the fact that, according to experts, our borders could last two, six or eighteen hours, depending on the different opinions. It sounded like a joke. Since on that side of Italy there had been the bloody war - the First World War - two hours or eighteen hours compared to a three-year war seemed like an inezia. Instead, they were very important because the plan of the Soviet Union, which was not implemented, was to invade the Po Valley as quickly as possible, so that it could exploit its industrial potential to support the war effort that the Soviet bloc had to carry out. Reduce to two the eighteen hours would have been very important because it would have meant taking the Po Valley without damaging the industrial apparatus, while it was predictable that with the same plan there would be very serious damage in western Germany of the time with probable use of atomic weapons. Well, the chances are that during that period, in the context of the preparation of some form of terrorist engagement through their sponsors - or those thought to be such - there was the transfer of some plans that concerned our defenses in the North-East, indeed in the North, of our country. Another thing that came out of those defense closets was the list of members of the so-called Gladio, i.e. Stay Behind, that I've already heard of in this discussion. I would like to remind you that it has been proved - and our colleague and President Emeritus Francesco Cossiga has said so many times - that those who were part of it were indeed patriots. Representatives of the Armed Forces - with whom they had often dealt with during military service or some longer service - had asked them to train for free, losing many days of work or dedicating themselves to their families and their occupations. The aim of the training was to prepare in the event of Soviet invasion to carry out actions of resistance, which consisted mainly in bringing to safety - in Switzerland or France, if it had not been invaded - politicians or armed forces or people considered in any case valuable for a resistance against the invader. This was Gladio, this was Stay Behind. That even today, so many years later, these people are treated as a sort of coupist is really shameful, because they are very respectable people whose self-denial and sacrifice must be appreciated - without even having received reimbursements [[Applause from Senators Giovanardi and Perrone]] - subjected to a series of trainings to be then indicated to the public as a sort of conspiracy, placed on the same level more or less of the Red Brigades. That's exactly the opposite, that's the reality. It's good to remember that maybe the fact that you published their list was part of some concession someone wanted to make to appease the Red Brigades. Another important aspect related to this issue - which was also touched on in Senator Fornaro's oral report, which I appreciated - is related to the Palestinian question. I have focused on the fact that the media tends to hide some things, not in the sense of censoring them totally, but of not giving them any weight. In this country full of anniversaries and celebrations, in which we remember various facts, such as the killing of some people (all things widely shared, for charity), we have completely forgotten that on December 17, 1973 34 people were slaughtered at the airport of Fiumicino for an attack of Palestinian origin. The authors then managed to hijack a Lufthansa plane to end up in Kuwait, which entrusted them to Egypt, which in turn entrusted them to the Palestine Liberation Organization. Within a year that happened to those criminals, guilty of 34 murders of innocent citizens, almost all Italians (among the victims there were diplomatic and official officials of the Finance Guard), but we never talk about it. He knows who is my age or something more, because he remembers the news of then; otherwise, if we are in the current culture, we remember anything, but not that. Seven years later there was another attack on Fiumicino, and I quote again President Cossiga, who spoke of an agreement made by Aldo Moro following that same attack. There has been talk for a long time, because it has always been considered only a hypothesis, considered by some to be insane, even if President Cossiga has always said it clearly in this House: there was an agreement between Aldo Moro and the Palestinian extremist organizations so that they would no longer make attacks in our country and, on the other hand, enjoy a sort of free transit, even if in possession of weapons or in the act of organising terrorist attacks elsewhere. A not very honorable agreement, in my opinion, that would have been violated by the arrest of some Palestinians in possession of rocket launchers in South Italy: as a result, some reactions would have come, including the Bologna massacre of 2 August 1980, which then a series of processes attributed to a whole other matrix. Now, those to whom the massacre of August 2, 1980 was attributed are, for their own confessions, persons who committed a series of crimes (homicides, robberies with murders and so on), but who have always denied that they had committed that crime, for which they had considerable alibis. In the work of the Parliamentary Committee of Inquiry concerning the Mitrokhin dossier from 2001 to 2006, the role of a certain German linked to the secret services of East Germany emerged very clearly. It is good to remember these facts. In conclusion, I would like to mention not two omissions, because the work that the Commission has done and still has to do is so great that we cannot investigate everything, but two aspects that have not been touched upon. The first is the failure to negotiate, at least in its decisive part, for a possible liberation of Moro: an abnormal case, because this negotiation has been almost in any other case. The second aspect concerns the famous spiritual session, which took place around Bologna during the abduction of Moro, in which very high personalities of our Republic participated, including the former President of the Council and of the European Commission Romano Prodi, during which a saucer moved by the spirit - as was also told by Mr Prodi himself in the Mitrokhin Commission - indicated the word Gradoli. Perhaps it would be necessary to go and take a look again at these things, discovering if really for one of the greatest figures of our European Italian politics the saucers move by spirits evoked with mechanisms that, moreover, in those cultural and religious environments, should be considered satanic and grave sin, or if there was anything else, if there were contiguity between some of those who participated in this spiritual session and those who really knew something about Moro, or even if it was a case that the name Gradoli had come out with all that was then connected. I should like to end by thanking my fellow Members of the Commission for their work, while at the same time hoping - I believe in vain - that this will be an opportunity for the media to remind us of some of the facts which are not mentioned curiously, perhaps because they do not help or perhaps because they contrast the history of the many who currently control, manage and convey mass information during this period. [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-04-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-803.ana.u16	We greet the students, the escorts and the teachers of the Technical Institute of Economics (Lucio Lombardo Radice) in Rome, who are following our work. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-04-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-803.ana.u17	Senator Giovanardi is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-04-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-803.ana.u18	Mr President, first of all, I would like to thank the members of the Commission and Mr Fioroni, who are present in the gallery, for the work that I remember being an interlocutory work. Although the investigation has not yet been completed, we already have a mass of data in this interim report which is worth reflecting on. I would like to bring it up to date, because a Commission makes sense if it is projected into the present and the future and if it succeeds in resolving some of the problems that still affect political life, the history of our country and the current situation. I welcome the fact that on page 153, 156, 161 and 162 of the report there are still unresolved issues in the history of Italy. I say straightaway that these nodes are not clarified also because it seems incredible, I repeat for the umpteenth time, that after about 40 years from those events, the documents that could give an explanation also to the Commissions of inquiry on what really happened are still covered by the secret. Indeed, as the President of the Council explained, these documents have been desecrated, they are no longer state secrets, but they have been reclassified secrets and very secrets. Therefore, who, like me, has had the opportunity, as a member of a committee of inquiry, to read and record them, must keep to himself what he has read because if I disclose them, even here, I could be sentenced to two years in prison. Then I quote this surreal fact. Our country, I repeat for the umpteenth time, rightly makes a big voice with Egypt, asking to open the drawers and say everything it knows about painful and terrible events, such as that of Giulio Regeni, that happened a year ago. After 36 years, however, we are still unable to disclose very important papers on the issues that concern Moro and the history of Italy since the years Seventy until the nineties; history within which there is the kidnapping and murder of Aldo Moro and a whole series of situations that still revolve around the famous Moro praise. Last year in Bologna was archived the investigation on the presence of Kram in Bologna the night before April 2, the day on which the station jumped into the air, precisely questioning the existence of the Moro praise: they concluded saying that it was there, slept there, that its alibi is inconsistent, but however it is not historically shown that the massacres of Bologna and Ustica are connected to the Moro praise, because no one has ever shown that there is a Moro praise. In fact, the Commission has acquired a document earlier than the death of Moro in which it made explicit reference to the danger of an attack on the Christian Democrat Premier on the Moro praise, as it had worked. Alas are terrible and painful stories of the history of Italy. We also deliver the list of Libyan dissidents in Italy, who were murdered in Italy by Libyan agents with the consent of our Government (it is all in the proceedings of the Commission of Inquiry into the massacres, they are also documented issues at parliamentary level). Through that praise, as my colleague Mr Malan recalled, the arms trade in our country was given the green light, with a sort of impunity for those who carried on such arms trafficking. This now documented history of connection between Italy, the Palestinians, the Libyans (who were behind the most extremist front of the Palestinian resistance, that of the Front for the liberation of Palestine of Abbas), environments of the Italian autonomy resident in Bologna and terrorists related to Arafat (it is also mentioned here in the Moro case) who were in Bologna under certain circumstances, would require - once again I remind the President of the Senate - that these documents be made public after thirty-six years. I don't know how much I can push myself, but I ask myself rhetorical questions: is it true that, when the rocket launchers were seized in Ortona, there was a very violent reaction because, unlike the past, the leaders were condemned to the Eagle, and it was deliberated at a high level by Abbas a reprisal towards Italy and that this retaliation was also directed to hit a plane? Is it true that on the very morning of June 30 Beirut was asked to evacuate our embassy because we were in the imminence of an attack? I don't know. I know that there is a lot of documents, but neither historians, nor journalists, nor politicians, nor committees of inquiry can speak freely, because after thirty-six years they are still covered by secrecy. I know that some colleagues, in front of the complaint of this unusual fact in the West, said that those cards are irrelevant. I tell the President of the Senate and the President of the Council that if those papers are irrelevant I do not see why they should be kept secret after 36 years: make them public and, if they are so irrelevant, I do not see how, after 36 years, national security can be endangered by reading certain events. Through the Moro praise, in the first version, Italy was protected from events, such as the terrible one of Fiumicino, through international agreements around which, before the death of Aldo Moro, there were conflicting interests of the Soviet bloc, of countries like Libya, of the various factions of the Palestinian front and probably also of Mossad. The latter, in fact, opposed this kind of attitude and certainly could not be pleased that Italy was a free area from which from the Eastern bloc and Yugoslavia came weapons that passed through Italy and went into the hands of the Palestinians to attack Israel, because this was the scheme. I could then remember - alas - the story of Argo, the Service plane blown up probably by Mossad. It is an intricacy of events on which, in order to clarify also the death of Aldo Moro, surely we must deepen and investigate. Some will say that even today - alas - we are living an era of international terrorism, but what we see in Iraq and Syria has characteristics that are certainly different from the events of the 1970s and 1980s. That was another terrorism, it had other motives; there was Gaddafi and there was Libya that no longer exists today because it dissolved. But even today, Mr President, there are open criminal proceedings on those facts. We'll talk about it on June 30th. These are surreal situations: our criminal judiciary, with a judgment passed in court, said that the hypothesis of the missile, in the case of Ustica, is science fiction, which is a hypothesis that does not stand is that there has never been any aerial battle except in the imagination of journalists or those who make movies or theatrical shows. Monday is the fault of the French, the Thursday of the Americans and so on. We then have a judgment of the Civil Cassation which, on the other hand, says that it is more likely that it was a missile on the basis of a sentence issued not by a magistrate but by a gentleman named Francesco Batticani who is a lawyer in Bronte and as an added honorary judge wrote in a sentence that according to him was a missile. Then this thesis went all the way to cassation. The state bill won on appeal but produced late documentation, so the cassation postponed everything on appeal and forgets all the criminal case that had established that there was no missile. You teach me, Mr President, that having remained as the only reason for the missile, we are presenting before the world two sentences that say exactly the opposite of each other. When the current President of the Republic intervened as Minister of Defence, he explained that if an international responsibility had been demonstrated for Ustica, the Americans and the French would have to pay them the 300 million euros that belonged to the heirs of the victims, in addition to the 62 million compensation that must be paid to Itavia. You understand, Mr President, that at international level it is difficult to go to the Americans and the French to say that they have to pay us EUR 300 million when they have in their hands a criminal sentence passed in court that explains, after four years of trial, an expertise made by the 11 major international experts in this matter and the reconstruction of the plane, that the air battle has never been and that the missile is a total and absolute fandonia. And we in that sentence will have to go and ask our allies 300 million euros? We're in the surreal. In order to return to the partial report, as it is rightly written - as President Fioroni says very clearly - we have to understand why: The state has not yet definitively clarified the meaning of such investigative omissions. However, it should be pointed out that the story reveals a possible link between the Moro case and a current of arms trafficking involving both organised crime and the Middle East area and on which further and - it is hoped - final deepenings are to be made. But how can definitive insights be done if the acts are still covered by secrecy and if it is still criminally prosecutable who discloses such acts that are, on the merits, terrifying things with respect to the truth that emerges? I am talking about official acts of which the President-in-Office of the Council and the Minister for Foreign Affairs of the time were well aware but on which, even today, there is an obligation, because we cannot talk about it. As long as we spoke at the level of individuals, I can understand that, but now we are examining a report which reaffirms, on pages 153, 156, 161 and 162 that the documentary evidence, as page 153 states, shows the existence of a node of arms trafficking that was in connection with both the Italian clan and the Lebanese and Palestinian world and therefore, have a direct reference to the Moro case, the Moro praise and the history that goes from 1975 to 1985 in which the abduction and murder of Moro, the story of Ustica, the story of the Bologna station are inserted. You will know that in Zamberletti's book - I do not reveal a secret - it is said that he himself was in Malta on 2 August 1980. At 10 a.m., he signed with Dom Mintoff the agreement that separated Libya from the military agreement with Malta and that had military but also economic reflexes for the platform from which oil is extracted and, when the news of the attack came from Bologna Dom Mintoff said: This is the Libyan reprisal. According to our Services, as has also emerged in the Commission of Inquiry into the massacres, both the massacre of Ustica and that of Bologna would have been Libyan warnings against Italy, on the one hand, because it pursued a policy aimed at detaching Malta from that military agreement and, on the other hand, for all the events of the weapons that I recalled before, which took place precisely in that period of time. No one holds the revealed truth, therefore what I say can be inconsistent or can have some value, but I renew the appeal to the President of the Senate and to the President of the Council, also in view of the forthcoming events that will be held in June, to remember the massacre of Ustica, and in August to remember that of Bologna, so that finally one of these events will arrive with the uncovered maps. For years I have heard in Bologna claim, rightly that the secret of State was removed; the secret of State has been partially removed but some cards have been reclassified as secret and very secret. I believe that rightly (or unjustly, because after seeing some things, this request is no longer echoed by the previous decision), also for the answers that the Commission of Inquiry will have to give in the future of its work, in a free and democratic country it must be possible to assess and verify the historical and current importance of those documents, because criminal proceedings are in progress, relations with other countries are still in progress and what happened then with terrorism can have repercussions even today, when we are facing challenges, in the fight against terrorism, which in some way can resemble those of once. I hope that what is written in the report, which I share (I have signed the agenda), will be prompt to finally make clarity and, if you allow, to get out of the rhetoric for which every anniversary is said to require the truth, that everything must be done to discover the truth and that it will stop at nothing, and then keep the drawers closed, without spreading or discussing a series of official papers that could give an exhaustive answer to this tragic part of our country's history. [[Applause from Senators Liuzzi and Perrone]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-04-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-803.ana.u19	Senator Di Biagio is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-04-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-803.ana.u20	Mr President, today's report represents an intermediate step in the work carried out so far by the Commission, for which I would like to thank President Fioroni and his colleagues who have done an important and challenging job, but it is the partial point of departure of a definitely complex and multi-level deepening, with which - although it is right to say so - we are still in a situation of incompleteness. It is precisely with regard to this that I find the subjection of several reports redundant, which do not come to specific resolutions, but which specify the still obscure points of the whole affair, and how much more needs to be deepened, referring - among other things - to a final report, in which final analyses should still be expressed, on issues which at the moment, however, still need to be deepened. With regard to the work carried out so far, we cannot overlook the fact that the investigation has unfortunately gone too far in identifying details of the abduction and the negotiations, which have been the subject of various investigations over the years. On the other hand, it would be desirable, especially in the light of the in-depth discussions which have taken place with a view to the final report, to maximise the political role of the Commission, giving priority to the involvements, the leaders and the international implications inevitably related. The innovative aspect, which is particularly useful for the Commission's investigation, of access to documents on which there is a system of secrecy which prevents public disclosure, cannot be overlooked, but it remains an important point: how can we expect to arrive at a timely and credible investigation if access to documentation is partial and limited? Secretation is unfortunately a limit, it is an incomprehensible and paradoxical constraint for a normal country, which still conditions the achievement of the most relevant information and which compromises the same access to truth, as well as the legitimate acquisition of information by citizens and profiles involved in the events related to the object of this investigation. If we look at the report and the points that have been addressed, the deepening of international links in my view is perhaps the weakest point. Although the same report, in particular document XXIII, No 23, highlights the importance of the international dimension in the Moro affair, we are concerned with the relations existing between the Palestine Liberation Organization (PLO) and the BR, in particular on well-known issues such as the aspects related to the Moro praise and the role of Colonel Giovannone. At the same time, however, we come to question the same relations, despite the obvious public statements by representatives of the Marxist wing attached to the PLO - the People's Front for the Liberation of Palestine (FPLP) - which do not fail to point out what was the privileged relationship with the BRs in Europe. The right importance has not been given to the exchange and trafficking of arms between the BR and the PLO, which is also a well-known element and has emerged in a number of acts and declarations. In this regard, reference is not made to the two arms depots of the FPLP, the subject of investigations and judicial acts, one in Veneto and the other in Sardinia, entrusted to the BR, from where the known explosive used in the bombing at Bologna station, on 2 August 1980. The question would inevitably arise that, while there is such a strategic relationship between the Red Brigades and the PLO, the latter organisation has failed to stop the same BR in the murder of Moro: this is a point on which further investigation should be undertaken. Again with regard to the international implications, there seems to have been no proper investigation into the involvement of German terrorist cells in the abduction. The relationship between the German Rote Armee Fraktion (RAF) and the BR has certainly not been discussed, but the relationship between the BR and the German revolutionary terrorist movement of the Cells, infiltrated by men of the Stasi, who worked with the Separat group and the fantomatic PFLP, who managed with the BR the two arsenals in the Italian territory. No reference is made to this movement and to the correlation with the BRs, and this failure is still likely to affect the quality of the work carried out. There is also little clarity as regards the analysis of the Hyperion school, which appears in the report as a sort of parliament of the world's secret services, although it has already been established from the procedural point of view that Hyperion was a real international terrorist structure, where representatives of all the European and Palestinian terrorist groups linked to the Soviet orbit met and made decisions. It is therefore desirable not to minimise the role of international secret services and related terrorist movements in the Moro case. In this regard, it is easy to believe that the countries of the former Soviet orbit and the related Services have supplied weapons and instruments to the BRs, and many secret archives, including those of countries that are part of the European Union, can confirm this, as I myself have been able to verify. Believe me, those files are desecrated. As the rapporteur has explained, the issues in this regard deserve further consideration. I repeat that this point remains crucial to the work of the Parliamentary Committee of Inquiry. What emerges, clearly and - let me say - dramatic concerns the superficiality and lightness that the institutions, investigators and the State in its entirety have demonstrated in those years towards the management of the Moro case and more general towards all the cases related to it. The absence of the State, unable to focus on events and conniving with dynamics of concealment and misdirection, remains - in my view - the main cause of inconclusive investigation on these events. On this I can only express a deep sense of personal shame, especially as regards the early awareness of the terrorist risk by the authorities, highlighted by the Commission's work, which, as we know, has not led to any intervention. As well as the faults of the investigations then carried out, such as the question of the bar Olivetti and the correlation of this with the investigation of the trafficking of weapons, at the moment being verified, or with regard to the existence of a building in the Balduina area, lair of the Red Brigades, the subject of ongoing investigations. But we have to ask ourselves, almost thirty-nine years later: what added value can the work of this Commission actually give? Also because it risks representing yet another missed opportunity. This is because, between the absence of elements at the time neglected and now difficult to identify and contextualize, and the continuous crushing of investigations into positions of complacency or excessively ideologicalized, one risks transforming this work into a pantomime. But the partiality of the work carried out so far makes it possible, however, to carry out further in-depth studies, so as to exceed the limits outlined so far. The question is: what is the point of setting up a Commission of Inquiry, if the investigation then is limited to the usual questions and the so-called truth of convenience, functional to this or to that political reality or ideological position, is preferred? It is really hard to understand that the passing time and the sedimentation of ideological contaminations continue to stray from the truth. The limited and incomplete reports therefore present themselves at the moment as an act of institutional deepening, but far from the aims set out in the Commission's mission. Many elements have been touched and several Pandora's vases have been opened, to which we will have to return necessarily. There are prerequisites, but we must have the political will, because we have reached a level of political maturity and historical awareness which cannot be overlooked and which at the moment is a wealth and added value of this Parliament, in the name of the search for truth and historical, political and human responsibility, which conditions our work and of which we must be fully aware, especially at the final stage of the Commission's work. [[Applause from Senators Giovanardi and Susta]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-04-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-803.ana.u21	Senator Carraro is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-04-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-803.ana.u22	Mr President, I will be very brief, first of all by thanking the rapporteur, Mr Fornaro. I gave the Commission's report of inquiry a quick one: I believe that looking for what has not emerged is absolutely appropriate, but without ever forgetting what is clearly established, namely that the Italian Republic, which has always dealt with anyone, for anyone and for anyone, before and after the abduction of Moro, in the case of Moro did not want to make any negotiations. When it comes to initiatives, it is true that there have been political initiatives, but it is also true that the Government has been tetragonous in denying all kinds of negotiations, in the people of the President of the Council and the Minister of the Interior. And it is equally true, Mr President, that on the same morning when a Christian Democrat leadership was planned, during which Amintore Fanfani would pose the problem that perhaps it was necessary to negotiate, the Red Brigades had found, a few steps from Piazza del Gesù, the corpse of Aldo Moro. These are incontrovertible facts, which anyone who lived then and anyone who reads the chronicles knows. I think it is right then that everything should be framed in its reality. We need to know that the Aldo Moro case has a fact. Italian culture has allowed human survival to be put above all else; it has always been. In the case of Aldo Moro it was decided to do completely different. To frame this fact will certainly bring in interesting and important news, but they cannot distort that fact.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-04-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-803.ana.u23	He's enlisted to speak Senator Liuzzi. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-04-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-803.ana.u24	Mr President, today, for the first time since the institution by law of the Parliamentary Committee of Inquiry into the abduction and death of Aldo Moro, the Senate, also with what has already happened to the House, takes note of the work carried out so far by the Commissioners and evaluates its aspects concerning investigations, the ability to sum up in the magnum sea the information acquired, the will to testify to a commitment that, wanting to restore clarity to the work and to the figure of Aldo Moro, reconstructs the temperie of a sad season, the crossing of epochal facts on a world that was changing - as it has changed - in its geopolitical and economic expressions, national, European and world. So much water has passed under the bridges since those tragic months of March, April and May 1978; so much memory has been dispersed; so much injustice has been accomplished. The inexorable work of time faded memories, made indecipherable traces of investigations, vaporized scenarios. We immediately realized that. The start of the Commission's work, already two and a half years ago, highlighted the fragility of our attempt to carry out a complex reconstruction: from the crime scene to the backdrop of the political-institutional theatre of those seventies, between those who were at the center of the stage and those who kept themselves at the time of the events, and then, behind the scenes, taking advantage of the numerous cones of shadow. Let us not forget that next March will be forty years from the execution of the kidnapping and the massacre of Via Fani and, consequently, will be forty years, the springs and the autumns passed from the tragic death of the statesman. This Commission of ours was not born just because this anniversary included in its celebratory articulation a truth, a lack of reality unveiled to the conscience of the Italians, our fellow citizens and Europeans, who will also have to feed on the contribution of civilization of the law, the ethical register as a component of democracy. This Commission was born out of a sense of justice, a debt of gratitude to all the victims of terrorism and violence; it was born because history is one day tasked with pointing to the moral responsibilities of the democratic path, blocked by the development denied. The results obtained so far, the circumstances that have emerged, the attempts to link the contours, to combine men and women with those tragic facts and that unfortunate season spent in the chronicles, and therefore in history, as the season of the years of lead, the Commission has treasured since the day of its inauguration. Hearings, interrogations and testimonies have nurtured and given hope to the Commission. I owe President Fioroni this faint note of color, this attitude to take without ever "buffering." This was possible for the constant and professional collaboration of experts, consultants and human resources made available, at Palazzo San Macuto, by the Chamber of Deputies. Of this unique and appreciated human and professional heritage, we Commissioners have made use of it over the years. I must acknowledge that the Commission's most active members have had two main aids: patience and a great ear. The use of this latter means must be understood as listening ability, which is not merely physical exercise, but is also predisposition of mind, awareness of the role and assignment to which one has been called in judging the behavior of other men and evaluating the numerous facts and circumstances. Who, like myself, has known the disappeared statesman cannot approach his tragic end without forgetting the lesson of Moro as to patience, listening, calm evaluation, mediation and dedication to contempering. I have appreciated from the outset, like all Commissioners, such talents and predispositions. This must be said because, even today, the Commission faces a perceptible distrust and scepticism on the part of many circles related to different political-cultural sensibilities of the national ruling classes, including parliamentarians. Here, perhaps, the most widespread feeling is indifference, which is in fact a non-feeling. In my opinion, this Commission has the task of getting close to the truth and leaving nothing unfinished in terms of tracks, tracks and grey areas. Then will come on stage the historians, the intelligences and the competences, that even the Homeland will not hesitate to acquire drawing from the university departments and from the centers of historical, social and political research. For these reasons, as can be seen from the conclusions published on page 161 of the explanatory report on the work carried out, the Commission will have to pay further attention to a variety of facts and actors. I refer, first of all, to the presences, even non-Brigatista, at the scene of the crime, beginning with exponents of the 'ndrangheta; the role played by the bar Olivetti and its owners, already investigated for matters of organized crime; the Parisian school Hyperion, as a nebula of meetings, environments, characters and personalities apparently above all suspicion; the premises made available to the fire group and the kidnappers in the area of the Balduina adjacent to Via Fani. I am also referring to details of the unique circumstance of the arrest of the brigadeists Morucci and Faranda, the role of the Palestinians, the Middle East policy of the Italian Government, as well as the infiltrators of the Italian secret services in the area of autonomy and brigatism. Let it be clear - it is an incontrovertible and indisputable fact - that the murder of the escort of Moro and the statesman on May 9, 1978 is the work of ideological violence and class hatred that fueled those numerous enclaves of counterpower of communist origin. Mr President, as I am sure most of us have in recent days and years, I too have recently paid tribute to the memory of Aldo Moro in my hometown, in Noci, in the Province of Bari, on the occasion of the fiftieth anniversary of the visit of the then President of the Council to some centers of the Murgia dei Trulli. I have personally tested the attention, the apprehension and the legitimate need for truth. So, the country is still hungry for truth about the Moro affair. I add more, the country is ready for possible different reconstructions of those tragic facts. If this predisposition were to correspond to the truth, it would mean that, out of adversity and tragic history, we entered the maturity of democracy. Isn't that what he pursued by method, teaching, example and action on the ground the same statesman killed? Aldo Moro is a prophetic character. Moro's lyricism echoes in his prophetic phrase, which I quote: This country will not be saved, the season of rights and freedoms will prove ephemeral if a new sense of duty is not born in Italy. I would add another sentence to the attention of this House. "We must accept the weight of this sad time: to say what we hear and not what it is appropriate to say." It would seem pronounced by the statesman; which is online, as to lyricism and content, as Edgard says, the protagonist of Shakespeare's "King Lear." It's like a piece from the letters from Aldo Moro's prison. It is of extreme topicality and of great warning. [[Applause from Senators Giovanardi, Perrone and Rossi.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-04-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-803.ana.u25	He's enlisted to speak Senator Barani. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-04-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-803.ana.u26	Mr President, I will be extremely brief, partly because my Group, having no members within this Commission, could not make its contribution and would have gladly done so. In my group, in fact, among others, there are also exponents of the glorious Italian Socialist Party, who lived in that period, in 1978, as semi-protagonists, the story Moro. The speaker was one of the last representatives of the institutions (I was mayor of Aulla at that time) to meet Bettino Craxi in Hammamet, October 24 and 25, 1999, and we also talked about the Moro case. I have, therefore, still fresh memories of what he said and that we have never heard in any committee of inquiry. The intervention that preceded me, of Senator Carraro, has been exhaustive: imperatively, Senator Carraro said that this Republic has dealt with everyone, dogs and pigs; but at that time the policy of the historical compromise between Christian Democracy and the Italian Communist Party has done so, with an explicit-tacito agreement, that it should not be dealt with in order to free Aldo Moro. The letters of Aldo Moro, obviously addressed also to those who wanted to defend him, to protect, to the socialists, are an important asset, although many of these were dictated, so on their truthfulness and their spontaneity there is much to discuss. Mr President, as a Group we will abstain, because we have not been able to make a contribution on the two documents, one of December 2015, the other of December 2016, of about 170 pages each. Of course, having no representative within the Commission, we have not been able to make our contribution. Mr President, today is an important date; fate wants today to be 6 April and 6 April 1978 our forces of order went to a village near Viterbo, called Gradoli: on 6 April they had gone to search because some voices had arrived, some information about the name of this municipality. It was searched in the lake or in the village; so someone knew. Agnese Moro, who asked President Cossiga, the then Minister of the Interior, who resigned, replied that Gradoli was an unknown name. It was enough to consult a road of Rome to discover that there was a Via Gradoli. Even on the third floor of that palace in Via Gradoli the Carabinieri went knocking, no one answered and the neighbor intervened saying that no one was ever seen but there were noises, as if someone were typing, as if someone were writing. In other times the door would be broken and entered, at that time nothing was done. Then I can think of the thought of Bettino Craxi, whom I do to you, Mr President, who is a magistrate, about what would happen in a normal country. At that time, Italy was not a normal country. Among other things, the protagonists of that affair have all made a career: who was Minister of the Interior then became President of the Republic and who, instead, knew and did not say, namely Romano Prodi, became first President of the Council and then, due to the votes of 101 free shooters, did not become President of the Republic. I am referring here to what Senator Malan said earlier about that séance. In a normal country, any magistrate, also you, Mr President, would have taken those who had reported the news to Zaccagnini, that is, precisely, the head press office and propaganda of the then secretary of Christian Democracy, and would have asked him to account the history of the spirits of La Pira and Don Sturzo who suggested that Aldo Moro was held prisoner in Via Gradoli. He would ask him who had told him and the truth would come out: it would have emerged that he was the son of a leader of Christian Democracy, who had repented and told his father that he knew where Aldo Moro was. And so Aldo Moro could be saved! That is what the Committees of Inquiry must say, and that is what Craxi told me on 25 August 1999. That's the truth! It was therefore intended to kill Aldo Moro, as then wanted to kill Bettino Craxi, because this is a Republic where, as Carraro says (which I have already mentioned), it was dealt with all, where money was used to bring back to Italy terrorists and, instead, it was not wanted to save Aldo Moro and the same end was then made to do to Bettino Craxi: the two are connected, in an umbilical cord of a real and serious Parliament, that has the possibility, as my colleague Giovanardi said, to have all the material available to the secret services, which is still secreted. But how can a Commission of Inquiry investigate if everything is under "knit"? These are the secrets that need to come out. With this Commission we would have made a great contribution, even with Senator Mazzoni. In fact, I began by saying that in our Group there are protagonists who have had the luck, or the misfortune, to live 1978, but also the luck, or the misfortune, to receive the last testimonies of a martyr who was let die in Hammamet and to whom it was made to do the same end of Aldo Moro, that is, Bettino Craxi. Therefore, our abstention vote will be announced.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-04-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-803.ana.u27	Senator Stefani is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-04-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-803.ana.u28	Mr President, after so many years of these terrible facts, we are still here to talk about them and to deepen them, precisely because those facts were not only difficult, but framed in an extremely complex overview. But all the examination of what happened that tragic day and in the following days was enriched, in all these years, by many investigations, assumptions and, sometimes, even by fantasies. The Commission has tried to analyse the parts that are not yet in-depth in order to remove ghost issues from the various events. Since the facts were very serious, he elcubated a lot, for example on a whole series of abnormal presences, such as that of Colonel Guglielmi, who probably was in via Fani just because he had been invited to lunch, or the official of the services, who seemed to appear first in via Fani, then in via Caetani, then in via Carini, after the murder of Dalla Chiesa. The Commission has found with in-depth investigations that they were actually three completely different people. Then there's the man with the eskimo. A lot has also been said about cars, to the point of making it almost a novel: the Austin Morris, the Mini Cooper of Moscardi, the Alfa Sud, of which the number is not even known, but that probably belonged to the Police. As far as motorbikes are concerned, we were asked about who and how many people were on board, whether they were wearing a helmet or were in the open, whether there was a woman or not. All very complex analyses, because given the extent of the facts, there have been many intersections. The report still speaks, even, of the statements of Licio Gelli, who says that Moro's memorial was never passed on to the judicial authority. The memorial discovered in 1990, which presents discrepancies with the first letters of Moro, speaks of the operation Stay Behind and the illicit financing of parties, of the CIA to the DC, of the KGB to the PC and one wonders why - if at the time they were known conditions - the Red Brigades did not use these two elements, which were two major political issues. Yet, neither Moretti nor Franceschini said anything about it. Intersections also occur at supranational level, beyond our borders. I am referring to the involvement of the RAF, as the rapporteur has said, in which we have tried to deepen our efforts (of course we are talking about the German terrorist organization Rote Armee Fraktion and not the Royal Air Force). Then there is the Palestinian movement and the intersection with this. As the report states, the Commission's work has confirmed the absolute importance of the role of the Palestinian movement in this matter. The report also talks about Colonel Giovannone's message, at the time at the head of the Sismi in Beirut, about terrorist operations of considerable scale planned by European terrorists and about this was discussed well before the kidnapping of Moro. The extent to which this notice was relevant was not understood. Then there is the question of negotiating with the Palestinians. We are talking about a set of events that are now almost part of a cultural heritage of all of us, even journalistic, which seems almost romantic, but it is something extremely serious, because the president of Christian Democracy was kidnapped and killed. Let us remind the times what Christian Democracy was and who Aldo Moro was: it was a blow to the foundations of the institutions and of democracy itself. We came to talk - and we are talking about it today - about negotiations with Palestinian movements and, indeed, there was a willingness of Arafat himself, who made available everything he had to come into contact with Palestinian groups close to the Red Brigades. Some pages are very sad: by rereading Moro's letters you realize the path this man made from the beginning of his imprisonment to the last days. In his language, which remained always with its characteristics, strong and elegant, even not excluded - indeed, in some ways he urged - a form of exchange to safeguard the hostages, as if to remind his party colleagues, including Flaminio Piccoli himself, that these exchanges had already taken place. In the end, therefore, he called for a form of negotiation and serious compromise, in order to obtain his own liberation. Then there are pages that are still difficult: for example, why did this kind of negotiation fail? The Commission has examined the various hypotheses: according to some, perhaps the Palestinian contact was not able to speak with the Red Brigades; indeed, the very fact that Moro's letters talk about the possibility of a firm exchange and confirms that instead of contacts there were between the Palestinian groups and the Red Brigades themselves. The negotiation perhaps jumped because the brigades refused it; perhaps because the Italian Government itself did not have it; or perhaps because, in the galaxy of the Palestinian movements, the internal divisions even at the PLO did not allow it to continue. We then formulate various hypotheses on the possible advance knowledge of an imminent danger to Moro's safety, but we remember also what times we are talking about: at the time the magistrates, policemen and politicians were killed almost weekly; they were the years of lead. Not for nothing, President Moro was followed by a very nourished escort, which however did not defend him and was not able to block that action that was really commando and seemed almost a war operation: in a few minutes were exterminated all the members of the escort. Let us look at the conclusions of the report and do not think that this Commission is doing a useless job, because it has been so many years and so much history cements and surpasses. History, in this case, cannot be regarded as belonging to an old dusty book. We are talking about a history of Italy, of the history of terrorism in Italy, that never as today we must think of studying to investigate what are the terrorist matrixes. Terrorism is in fact commonplace and, as we can see, the episodes that occurred in the 1970s occur even today, with other clothes and objectives, but we are still talking about terrorism. What are the critical issues that emerge from the report and for which we are still asking for further details? Meanwhile, there is the certainty that the issue is extremely critical: there was a real tension between the executive power and the judicial authority itself; there were also direct interventions by government representatives in the conduct of investigations; there was excessive media pressure; there was a huge amount of information to deepen; and again - I stress, because the Commission itself says so in the report - there were possible undue or even illegal interferences at the stage of investigations and at the procedural stages. We are therefore still faced with a set of absolutely gray and foggy areas: witnesses who at the time were not questioned; absence of investigations, for example, on the case of the bar Olivetti, mentioned earlier; the missing photographic film and probably a form of informational osmosis between the investigative circles and the Red Brigades. I would like to conclude by saying that there was certainly a serious and important role of politics in those times, and I would like to point out that the North-League Group's vote will be in favour of the motion for a resolution. It is recalled that in the end, in Moro's letters, there were also almost heated clashes and heavy prayers against his own party colleagues. We still wonder - and there will always be doubt - how that policy reacted and what was actually done: in the end, we know that President Aldo Moro died. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-04-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-803.ana.u29	We greet the students, the students and the teachers of the Institute of Higher Secondary Education "Don Michele Arena" in Sciacca, in the province of Agrigento, and of the Liceo scientifico "Leonardo da Vinci" in Trento, who follow our work. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-04-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-803.ana.u30	Senator Gasparri is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-04-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-803.ana.u31	Mr President, the Moro affair for some outside or foreign observer may seem a bit unusual because he is almost forty years old. It has just been thirty-nine years since the anniversary, which was mentioned a few weeks ago, of the massacre of Via Fani and the murder of Moro, which took place at the beginning of May 1978. It may seem unusual and strange that after thirty-nine years the Senate is debating this morning, as happened in the House a few days ago, the report of a bicameral committee of inquiry. Obviously, if we are here, if we have also unitedly shared the motion for a resolution by Senator Cucca and other senators, which I have also signed, and which I believe has been shared by almost all the Groups, it means that it is a crucial hub of Italian history and I am interested in participating in this reflection. It is therefore not a bizarre or only historical debate, which would already be important and there would be nothing wrong with the institutions sometimes questioning the past. Moreover, what we are talking about is a recent past, in historical terms, because forty years are so many compared to the chronicle, but few compared to history, of which also these Aules and these places speak to us with the writings and events recalled in this Chamber and, even more, in that of Montecitorio. One wonders about this story because behind there are so many unsolved nodes of Italian history and also some truths that emerge are, in some way, minimized or concealed. I am not a member of the group of followers and I wanted to be part of and follow the work of the bicameral Commission, in keeping with the work of the House, the ordinary Commissions and the other bicamerals, because, even if they do not believe it outside, the parliamentary and political work is intense, both in Parliament and in the country. I have therefore followed the Committee of Inquiry into the Moro case, which carries out an intense activity, in many of its sessions - I have not been able to follow them all, but I have followed them many - and of course they have all been interesting. I wanted to take part in these sessions in particular in order to prevent this renewed Commission from feeding off the broken roots that have been produced over the last few decades. On the Moro case dozens of volumes have been and still are published because it is an important case, which in political terms determined a before and after, because the story of post-war terrorism of the Red Brigades found in those dramatic days its peak, because even the Italian political life has suffered in its successive developments of that story. It was a ridge in the history of the Republic. Well, I wanted to participate mainly to challenge some absurd reconstructions. I also had a very lively confrontation at one of the meetings of the Commission with our former colleague, Senator Imposimato, our colleague as a Member and colleague of the President as a magistrate. I do not want to fuel the controversy here because Senator Imposimato is not present, whereas in the Commission, at least, we have been confronted, even if he did not want to answer my questions, because in a Commission we have to discuss and speak. In a book, which has been almost as successful as a yellow book, Senator Imposimato tells of things - I want to say it also in this Chamber because it remains in the proceedings - that are neither in heaven nor on earth: in Italy, authoritative people still write books in which there is written, in summary, that above one of the dens where Moro was held, there were Italian soldiers in connection with international troops, who alternated in watching this lair waiting to intervene. You smile, President, I don't know if you've read the book, but I guess you smile knowing the story. The renewed Moro Commission, and I should like to thank Mr Fioroni and all of us for this, has refuted or not fed these faults. There's been a lot of them. There were also movies of all kinds, some very beautiful: for example, the movie "Good morning, Bellocchio night," which has a literary ending. In this movie Moro comes out alive from the den, but it is a cinematographic-literary work and, therefore, there is an invention provocation of a director, who often treats themes even delicate. I didn't always share Bellocchio's movies, for example the one about the case of Eluana Englaro didn't raise my share. However, an account is a director who does a work (it's like writing a poem or a novel), an account are some reconstructions. I wanted to join the Commission in order to prevent it from becoming a place, as is often the case, where cream is put together and this has not happened, because none of my colleagues wanted it. There is someone who comes out from time to time, out of protagonism, and marries any thesis, but this does not belong to this branch of Parliament. We must not tell the Italians, forty years later, inventions that call into question the Americans, the Mossad and the Italian army, that, moreover, we do not understand why they did not intervene and did not prevent the crime or, when it happened, did not do something. Let's clear the field from the lies and return to this Italian tragedy its genesis and its history. Senator Carraro made a brief speech earlier. Unfortunately for him Senator Carraro is a man of long experience (the years have passed for everyone) and he told things he definitely lived. I was also twenty years old, when the story of Via Fani happened, so I remember her as a political militant and then as a journalist; Franco Carraro is a little bigger than me and before he remembered the events related to the negotiation. This is one of the real dramas of the Left, which I wanted to discuss in the Commission when he returned to Franceschini. I am not referring to the Minister of Cultural Heritage and Activities and Tourism, but to the author of Mara, Renato and I, Mara Cagol, Alberto Franceschini and Renato Curcio, who were the founders of the Red Brigades. "Mara, Renato and I" is the title of a book, republished in various editions, in which Franceschini the red brigadeist tells the birth of the Red Brigades. Perhaps the problem that Senator Carraro mentioned earlier, of why it was or not, depends on the decision that the Italian Communist Party made with great clarity, a decision that I, at the time, even if I did not have significant political roles, shared, because I was part of a political group that believed that with terrorism - for goodness sake - no negotiation, no negotiation had to be made. To the Left there was a dramatic problem, because it was the same Left who up to that point in his newspapers had spoken of the "sedicenti" Red Brigades, saying that the brigades were red in name but black in fact. I once had a discussion with some journalists and was forced to go to an emerotheque to take the pages of the Unity (which now lives difficult days and solidarity with those who live them). I am talking about the Unity and therefore not about non-relevant newspapers and I quote it because it has always been an important newspaper in Italian political history: it published titles with the so-called Red Brigades. Giorgio Bocca wrote very hard things: the brigades are not red, they are black. The first victims of the Red Brigades were not the agents and carabinieri of the escort of Moro and Aldo Moro, but were Mazzola and Giralucci, two militants of the Italian Social Movement, who were killed in May 1974 in the seat of the Italian Social Movement of the time in via Zabarella. Well, it came to the point - and here also comes a direct and personal memory - that for many months, Mr President, it was written that it was an internal feud to the missins, as it was written for the massacre of Primavalle, an affair that concerns worker power not the Red Brigades. It was said that those militants fought and then, arguing, in the seats of the MSI, they shot themselves: in a distorted mind, such a story could also be fed. Shortly thereafter it was discovered that they were the first killed by the Red Brigades. But it was still the time when the deaths of the Red Brigades were not killed by the Red Brigades but killed each other; it was the time when we wondered whether the Red Brigades were red or not, whether they were fascists disguised, whether they were the CIA, Mossad or anything else. Then they started writing books. Franceschini (that of the BR), who had nothing to do with the murder Moro because he was arrested before, has the historical merit of having told the story of the genesis of the Red Brigades, which is in that book entitled "Mara, Renato and I," in which it is told of a gathering in the hills of Reggio Emilia with some subjects who had participated in the war of liberation and who were part of that wing not satisfied with the outcome of the war, with the agreements of Jalta and Italy that had to be in a certain international context. There was no "second wave" and Togliatti and others had, since the turn of Salerno, already during the war, to direct Italian life on another road. But some were ready to go on. Pages of dramatic history have been written: Pisanò wrote them many years ago and had no great audience and wrote Giampaolo Pansa in the book "The blood of the defeated". The killings continued until 1946 - 1948; in some areas it was enough to be the pharmacist or the pastor to be killed. Then those actions were stopped, like those of the Red Steering wheel that caused tragedies in Milan. And the civil war was over, the war was over, so we were in a situation that was not ascribable to the dramatic period of the civil war in which - alas - some things unfortunately happened, on one side and on the other. They gave their guns to Franceschini and others by telling them to do what they were not allowed to do. It's Italian literature. When Franceschini was heard by the Commission, I wanted to investigate this. Then more details emerged, as Senator Fornaro said: this Commission carried out investigations also thanks to technology, which enabled the trajectory of the bullets to be identified and much more. He also investigated, sometimes exaggerating, the whole condominium of Via Fani, to understand if all those who lived in Via Fani and their relatives were in place, if the owner of the bakery had the uncle of the cousin of the brother-in-law who was of 'Ndrangheta. Sometimes you have risked going into detail: if you take an entire street in Rome, you will find everything, if you go to the registry. Definitely the Red Brigades had shores. If a terrorist has to get guns where he goes to buy them? Rinascent or thugs? Therefore, they will certainly have trafficked with many national and international groups and also of common crime. If a person acts as a terrorist and buys weapons, it's easier than dealing with criminals than with gentlemen. I say this because, given this historical description, the negotiation was not there because for some pieces of the left those were "compañeros who make mistakes," the family album of Rossanda. Then there was a later phase, in which the left wondered: were these grandchildren or cousins of those who, at a certain stage, lived that story? So, the Communist Party set a cut-off. Guido Rossa was also killed because in a factory, as a trade unionist, he was a bulwark to a wave of terrorism. I therefore do not want to blame anyone, but since we are talking about a historical affair, this should be re-framed. The Commission's interest was therefore also to put things right and avoid the fantasy stories of Americans, with NATO, and soldiers who, upstairs, listened to the Red Brigades and heard the songs, thinking: we arrest them tomorrow. Enough of this stuff! I also say this to the publishers: nothing should be censored, but then the books should be published in the series of the Yellows. Bellocchio also made a film that ends with Moro alive but is, in fact, a literary work. We are a committee of parliamentary inquiry and therefore we must also put - let us say this - quality certifications, fanfaluches and trustworthy things. Otherwise, what are we doing? Another question is that of Senator Giovanardi. Giovanardi, other colleagues and I, using the powers which our membership of the Commission gives us, have looked at the documentation. Of course, as parliamentarians, we respect the limits that are placed on us, especially those who, like us, have been part of Parliament for a long time - I have been part of COPACO, as it was then - and are well aware of the constraints to which we are called. However, Mr President, we also call on you, for the role you play at this stage and for the authoritativeness that you have on matters of this nature for your present and previous experiences, to remove the secret on some documents, and to clarify another of the uninvestigated chapters, as the resolution calls for and I have signed this resolution with conviction, precisely to give strength to this request. Then, if the Red Brigades, which were not black and anything else, bought a gun from a member of the 'Ndrangheta' or if someone to whom Moro was disliked, in America, was not so sad if Moro had problems, they are indirect consequences, but they were not the ones to organize the seizure, the massacre of the escort and the murder of Moro. And one thing is who observes "satisfied" the misfortune of what can consider an uncomfortable political interlocutor, one thing is who carried out those acts. Then there is all the interweaving with the Palestinian world. Italy, and this can be said without violating secrets, had, as has been mentioned before, some agreements. We enjoyed some immunity because in the days of Andreotti, Moro and Colonel Giovannone who was in Lebanon, agreements were made to avoid problems. It is a bit the situation today, because I hear that we are immune to attacks, in this phase of fundamentalism, because the security services are efficient, but I remember that the terrorist who made the attack at the Bataclan in Paris, has crossed all of Italy. Grabbed - do you remember? - the ferry to Brindisi, went to the Islamic State, then came back here and climbed the whole peninsula to France. He may have slipped away. I do not think we are in a phase, as in the 1970s, when people said: as long as you do not hit here, we do not bother you. That of Colonel Giovannone is a historical affair, which is part of a certain Italian policy. Then, sometimes, the Palestinian groups (at the time there was no Islamic State, there was George Habash and the Popular Front for the Liberation of Palestine, which still exist, moreover) also struck in Italy, as it was with the attack on the synagogue of Rome, so that sort of "covenant" was also broken. One of the problems of the 1980s - I will be brief because Senator Giovanardi has already mentioned it - is that Palestinians are being arrested at that stage because they were carrying weapons to the Red Brigades (the port of Vasto, these are not secret news). They are arrested, tried and convicted and there is a problem. The Palestinians wonder: but how, there was the pact; we gave weapons to the Red Brigades, but in Italy we Palestinians had some sort of immunity (other than parliamentary immunity!), why did they arrest our colleagues? And they've also been convicted! I do not know what the deal was, it is certainly not that the secret services could send to all the prosecutors of the Republic and to all the courts a copy of the pact to say that if they were to proceed Palestinians in Abruzzo, they had to be fulfilled. In the end, the issue is also linked to the threats Italy suffered, in 1980, with Ustica and Bologna. And also about Ustica there is talk a lot, rightly, and also about it are made films, like that produced lately, that had claims of seriousness but that is questionable, with reconstructions that also refer to Parliament and to parliamentarians, by a director, also good in other cases, called Martinelli. These events therefore also relate to the following terrorism ( Ustica, Bologna), and even if there have been, in some cases, final sentences, there is a discussion that continues on the true genesis of some massacres: was there the threat from someone to Italy? Italy had behaved badly, had it violated the pact? Did you arrest and condemn the Palestinians who gave arms to the BR? The exchanges were there, the report documents it and remembers it (in pages 150 forward), are historical facts. So there are other aspects, for which there is documentation that can help to understand more and because it is a documentation of forty years ago, I believe that it can also be prevented from being seen if you are a member of a committee of inquiry and you look at it with the bond of secrecy. I think we can acquire it; then, probably, we will say that it shows nothing, that there is nothing, but this can serve a Commission. That's why I made a little 'historical picture of the birth of the BR, as they were born, their genesis and the debate on the left that they generated, because there was negotiation and there was no, because it had to be broken with armies that were a bit 'contiguous, neighboring and therefore who was neighboring had to show extraneousness and hostility more than others. The Christian Democracy of the time dealt, for Cyril, with the Camorra, who acted as mediator in the case of the seizure by the Red Brigades, so it is true that negotiations have been made and with ignoble subjects. I believe that Cutolo (not Professor Cutolo of television when I was a child, but Cutolo of Camorra) was interposed: it was therefore a strange Italy. In that case it was not for many reasons of a political nature and I agree, if I had been asked at the time - I repeat, I was young - I would have said: "It is not with the Red Brigades", so who did not treat, in my opinion, did well. However, those attitudes are linked to a political history. We try to remove the secretation on cards of forty years ago to understand also the relationship with Palestinian terrorism and the threats that Italy received and if the dramatic massacres that have occurred in Italy are connected or are not connected to those threats. I do not have any certainty, but I also have some constraints and I think the Commission should be listened to, which calls for these secrets to be removed and I also thank President Fioroni and all of us who are asking for transparency, because the purpose of this Commission is not only the historical-literary one. Moreover, historical reconstruction is also part of Parliament's activity, colleagues: reconstructing pieces of history of Italy by acquiring documentation will serve for Italian history, which is also done through these parliamentary activities. But removing that secretation can also help us to better understand some events, for which, even if they had - and not all had - answered in court, we do not know if the answer is the definitive one. The work of the Moro Commission can also serve this purpose. [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-04-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-803.ana.u32	The joint debate is closed. I would like to say that the Presidency has received the motion for a resolution No 1 tabled by Senator Cucca and other senators on documents XXIII, Nos. 10 and 23. The motion for a resolution has been distributed. The government representative has the floor, and I would also ask him to give his opinion on the motion for a resolution tabled.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-04-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-803.ana.u33	Mr President, on behalf of the Government, I am in favour of this motion for a resolution.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-04-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-803.ana.u34	We shall then proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-04-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-803.ana.u35	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-04-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-803.ana.u36	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-04-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-803.ana.u37	Corsini (Art.1-MDP). Mr President, first of all, I would like to express my deep appreciation and full support for Senator Fornaro's speech, and this is certainly not because of a group connection, but because of the esteem I have with him, which is also widely shared, also because of the personal contribution that Senator Fornaro has made during the course of the work of our Parliamentary Committee of Inquiry. In order to enter into the substance of the subject that we have to face, I would like to start from a preliminary observation, that is to say I would like to recall what seems to me to be a kind of horrible destiny, which weighs on the figure and personality of Aldo Moro, to the point that I do not think idle the question that has been raised in several places on what would have been the development of the history and political story of the Italian Republic if its murder had not been consumed. Well, this atrocious destiny, on the one hand, is about that sort of political removal, which has weighed over the decades, about the legacy of Aldo Moro's ethical-political magisterium and, on the other hand, the atrocious fate is due to that sort of shadow cone, which still concerns the story of his abduction and his assassination, despite the fact that Senator Fornaro well recalled the contribution of previous committees of inquiry and resolutions due to the work of the judiciary. It's a shadow cone, because I think it's worth the thesis that Moro was the victim of the Red Brigade murder party, but at the same time he was the victim of the non-Brigatist party of the murder. With regard to the atrocious fate, fortunately, in historiography many acquisitions have been achieved and many aspects have been clarified in relation to both Moro's personality and the murder affair. Let me remind you, certainly not for pleasure, that our colleague Gotor has published a masterful critical edition of the letters from the prison and a volume dedicated to the memorial of the Republic, in which the philological acribia goes hand in hand with the ability to interpret. Still, recently, Guido Formigoni and Massimo Mastrogregori have dedicated to the Apulian statesman two monumental biographies, which on the one hand seek to recover the meaning of the presence of Moro and which some pertinent appraisals express, also in relation to the story of the murder. Having said that, I am pleased with the work of the Commission. I have to say that initially I have part of this adventure not without some skepticism, in view of the fact that it weighs the boulder of the years that have passed from the story and the disappearance of multiple protagonists. And I too, as Senator Liuzzi and other colleagues have done, want to publicly acknowledge to President Fioroni the commitment he has made. Mr Fioroni, in his capacity as President, has shown not only an appreciable dedication, but also a broad willingness to gather the indications and suggestions that were submitted to him from time to time, as well as a personal and in-depth knowledge of the problems, not only of those that are still open, but also of the political and cultural background that they require. If one thinks that a very influential exponent of contemporary public life speaks of silent majorities, without knowing what they have represented in the recent political event of our country, all the more reason is the awareness that President Fioroni has demonstrated. There is also another element that brings me to appreciate the work of the Commission and, above all, of the Commissioners who have attended it more closely. I am referring to the provision to overcome ideological prejudices and those party fidelity that could have been an obstacle to the deepening that has just been undertaken; a deepening which, among other things, has the merit of having recovered documentary materials of primary importance and significant importance and of allowing the Commission to make use of a very wide range of hearings, which have allowed to define new methodologies of approach and to open up new avenues of research. I do not want to perish here to retrace the most exciting and intriguing themes that emerge from the work that has been carried out. But, beyond the answers that can be obtained or validated, the fact remains that the Commission has raised serious questions in relation to questions that are still open and questions of certain importance, which I too would like to point out, not in a hierarchical order, but above all in relation to the solidity of the materials acquired and the value of the questions raised. First, by retracing a cloth that Senator Fornaro has deepened with great knowledge of cause and point, I refer to the credibility of the Morucci, Faranda and Cavedon memorial (Remigio Cavedon). It seems to me that the Commission's work reveals inconsistencies, contradictions and even obvious inaccuracies or falsehoods. Secondly, I am referring to the existence or not of an initial prison of President Moro, before his transfer to Montalcini Street. Obviously, if this is a hypothesis that has any basis, it should be possible to identify the connivances, cover-ups and co-responsibility. Then there is a very proven and probative rift about the possible role of the rotating subversive criminal group around the Olivetti bar in via Fani. I would like to add three more issues of certain importance, which deserve further consideration and from which I believe that some answers can be drawn to the questions we have raised in the course of the work. First of all, there is the whole political issue, which other Members have already mentioned, of the negotiation and the role played in the foreground, particularly by authoritative socialists. Of course, I do not allow myself to enter into the debate and controversy between those who supported a firm position and those who, on the other hand, leaned towards a solution to be sought through the establishment of a negotiation. Then there is the international dimension of the Moro affair, with specific reference to the relationship between the Palestinian organizations, both with the Italian State and with the brigadeist group who, in the first person, was the author of the massacre, the kidnapping and the murder of the statesman Aldo Moro. However, I allow myself to make it clear to some colleagues that the events concerning Ustica, the Libyan Mig and the Bologna massacre are subsequent, and yet - and in this I can follow the petition raised by many colleagues - I believe they require more courage, a sort of soul supplement from the Government as regards the consultability and the descretation of materials that now belong to the public history of our country. Finally, a further avenue for reflection, investigation and study, to which other colleagues have drawn attention (and I too agree with their comments), concerns the Hyperion school and the so-called Superclan. Well, the path taken by the Commission has not yet been completed and, apart from the contribution that each Commissioner can make, the final and final report remains to be drawn up. However, the two doors which, so to speak, have already been opened, the two introductory reports presented, constitute a landing point and provide acquisitions from which certainly you cannot in any way ignore. These are the reasons why, on behalf of my Group, I am voting in favour, with the hope that the times of the legislature will be the opportunity and the opportunity to draw up a critical report and draw up a final text. As it has been in the course of works that have seen a shared participation and landings widely accepted, I wish that the final report can also arrive at results able to acquire a broad and choral consensus. [[Applause from the Groups Art.1-MDP and PD.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-04-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-803.ana.u38	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-04-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-803.ana.u39	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-04-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-803.ana.u40	BUEMI (Aut (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT)-PSI-MAIE). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, for those who have experienced the events of the time on the side of the reformist left, great questions still remain and, therefore, unresolved. The time and complexity of the sources make it difficult to ascertain historical facts, also for the actions of misdirection that, over time, have occurred on the story and that in some cases have probably caused some witnesses and protagonists to fail. The Commission's work, under the guidance of President Fioroni, with the qualified contribution of colleagues such as the rapporteur Mr Fornaro and the Senators Mr Gotor, Mr Corsini and others, has led to this interim report which has certainly solved some issues, but has also raised others. We therefore agree with the objectives identified in the final part of the report and believe that the Commission's commitment should be strong in order to conclude the work within the legislature. There are areas still unexplored, in particular by the various judicial events that have dealt with the case. There are times not coincident between the various versions, as well as protagonists still left in the shadows. There are behaviors, following events, which contradict the requirements of clarity which is mandatory for events of this scale. It is necessary to offer the public debate the acts that are still secreted, as the Commission obviously calls for, but also by a number of colleagues who have spoken and myself. The publication of the documents will also be used to solicit timeless memories and curiosities stimulated by the new ideas contained in the confidential documents. Ladies and gentlemen, in pointing out that work is difficult to do, but indispensable, and that its completion is in the democratic interest of the dignity of the institutions, I declare the support of the Group for Autonomies (SVP-UV-PATT-UPT) - PSI-MAIE. [[Applause from Senator Fausto Guilherme Longo and Group PD.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-04-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-803.ana.u41	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-04-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-803.ana.u42	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-04-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-803.ana.u43	DI BIAGIO (AP-CpE). Mr President, there is no doubt that today's debate has been fruitful and has led to a motion for a resolution which is acceptable and concrete, which I believe also serves as input for a renewed work by the Commission. In fact, his work really makes sense if you shake off preconceived positions and truths outlined at the table and you face the events, testimonies and stories of the individual characters involved, with a lucid and neutral approach. This is the only approach that one of the darkest pages of our history deserves. The call for an overall review of the matter, albeit ambitious, to be completed by the end of the parliamentary term, is a commitment that we absolutely must make. The further commitment to conclude the procedures for declassifying information also coming from foreign intelligence services, combined with the full consultation of judicial documentation, still fragmented in variegated archives and locations, is, in my opinion, a point of considerable interest. In fact, as I said, the secrecy of documents is perhaps the limit and the greatest paradox of all this. He also deserves attention and sharing the commitment to allow the extradition of the brigadeist Alessio Casimirri, which in my opinion represents an Italian shame, to be overcome with urgency and commitment. Therefore, there are all the prerequisites for a clear job, even if we rightly cannot demand or hope for a total resolution of a case on which, unfortunately, false truths, partial information and secretities have been settled. However, the fragmentation and precariousness of the content of the reports presented today also become understandable from this perspective. There is an awareness of what has yet to be analysed, as the rapporteur also pointed out, precisely because of the partiality of what has been done so far. From this point of view, my position and the Group can only be in favour of the motion for a resolution, also because, as I said, almost forty years after these events, we have reached a level of political maturity and historical awareness which cannot be overlooked and which, at the moment, is and remains an added value, in the name of the right to truth and the legitimate recognition of the responsibilities that a State should always and in any case guarantee, especially when it speaks of the truth about acts of terrorism of political origin, in which the servants of that same State have fallen, which after forty years still seems to remain silent and helpless. It is an act due to the victims of those vile and confused acts, in relation to which those responsible and connivances, after forty years, are paradoxically and shamefully wrapped in a mixture of secrecy, lack of information and cloaking will. We need answers and excuses, to finally deal with our history and give those answers that Italy and the Italians have been waiting for for too many years. [[Applause from Senators Collina and Dalla Zuanna.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-04-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-803.ana.u44	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-04-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-803.ana.u45	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-04-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-803.ana.u46	MANGILI (M5S). Mr President, it has been thirty-nine years since the abduction and murder of Aldo Moro and his escort, but, despite this, those who were still perfectly aware of the common mood of being on the border in those days between before and after, as suspended at a time beyond which everything would have changed. Traumatically the long and tormented path towards democracy has stopped, the overall maturation of our country has stopped. Why has so much blood been shed? Who used it to make a certain policy, both internationally and internally? What was the concrete objective that was wanted to be achieved? It is from this fierce desire for answers to these questions that the Parliamentary Committee of Inquiry, from the outset, has been animated, never getting tired of seeking the truth, despite the fact that today its research may appear to some anachronistics. Both reports have revealed limitations, gaps, inconsistencies in the investigative activities carried out at the time of the events, also attributable to suspicious omissions and superficiality; but above all, numerous doubts have been raised about some established judicial truths and the evidence of the brigatist side. The information contained in the reports constitutes only part of the material produced, as much more material is still being investigated. We can admit that, from the work carried out by this Commission, significant aspects have emerged, which are nevertheless worthy of further study. I am referring to the Palestinian trail, therefore to the relationship between BR and Palestinian movements and the relationship between the then Italian Government and the Palestinian leadership; I am referring to the re-reading of the arrest of Morucci and Faranda, probably politically negotiated: on this point a great deal of inconsistencies has emerged; I am still referring to the re-reading of that memorial, the result of the undisputed start of a negotiation with the State, but also to the lair prior to that of Via Montalcini and to the centrality of an arms traffic, which put together an exversion of the right and left, a bad life and anomalous apparatus. These lines are still open; they make us lean towards a search for the truth of which we must feel all the moral and then political duty, so as to get to understand what happened in our country in those years, especially in the face of stragism, detours and deviant relations between the State and terrorism. Certainly we know a lot, but not everything; we do not know, for example, what was then known about right-wing and left-wing terrorism, what was allowed to be done, if and how much were used, despite them, even by the institutions; we do not know if and when right-wing stragism could be functional to an authoritarian turn of the country. What we know is that the conclusion of the affair is still far away, since we still have a lot to find out about the Moro case. Nevertheless, it must be acknowledged that decisive steps have been taken with this Commission towards greater clarity. Precisely because it is far away, it is necessary to start a process of rebuilding a shared memory. That is why we are calling for the Commission's work to be speeded up, more boldly and without fear, so that the season of knowledge is not closed and, therefore, the possibility of making clear what is nebulous about this matter still hides. There are two mistakes that can be made along the way to the truth: don't leave and don't go all the way. The Commission has left. However, with our vote in favour of the resolution tabled, we are calling for work to be continued with more vigour and courage, so that the axis of understanding can be shifted from an internal centre of gravity to a broad international and geopolitical dimension, so that historical and political truth can finally emerge. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-04-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-803.ana.u47	They are present in the Hall to attend our work a representation of students and teachers of the Liceo di Scienze Humani (Liceo di Scienze), Assunta Pieralli in Perugia and a further representation of the Liceo Scientifico (Liceo Scientifico) Leonardo da Vinci (Liceo Scientifico) in Trento. To them we address our greetings. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-04-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-803.ana.u48	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-04-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-803.ana.u49	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-04-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-803.ana.u50	CERVELLINI (Misto-SI-SEL). Mr President, the absolutely non-formal, but essentially, appreciation of Senator Fornaro's report, and then of the work carried out in the Commission and the contribution of this debate, lead the Italian Left Group to give an absolutely positive vote to the proposed resolution, with the integration of the members of the Senate to the considerations made in the House about the importance of the strengthening of the request, already made by the Government, of extradition for the Brigatista Alessio Casimirri. I come back to this for a few seconds because, although I think nothing is decisive, this is a fundamental step. It is clear, in fact, that we will continue the hearings and in-depth discussions with the other exponents of terrorism at the time, but there we are faced with legally closed situations, which no one should reopen. In that case, instead, we could have, with the return to the Italian State of the terrorist Casimirri, a subject for which the responsibilities already claimed involve penalties in exercise that for the first time would be taken for granted. Therefore, on this occasion too, we must give a strong political encouragement, starting from the Government to the highest institutions of our country. We must not open a lawsuit with other countries, starting with Nicaragua. We have nothing against Nicaragua, but we have the right and the duty to face and confront with justice a terrorist exponent who has become the protagonist of serious crimes, from participation in the killing of the escort of Moro until the subsequent imprisonment and killing of the statesman. In conclusion, with regard to the considerations on the role of certain structures, such as the Hyperion school, rather than that of services, I would really like to respond quietly, but clearly, to Senator Gasparri. On this occasion too, but this is not the first time, he says that if the field of investigation were to be expanded in Rome, everything would be found. It's true. I'm Roman, too, and I know it. But the result of the investigations, which led us to make these considerations included in the resolution, was not so because the field has expanded, but precisely because the field of investigations was limited. In fact, in the condominium of Via Gradoli, where one of the most important caves was, out of 68 apartments, 24 were under the management of the Secret Services. They had the BRs in the condo, and the same goes for Montalcini. There are therefore no potential statistical coincidences, but a behavior of Services that probably responded to other secret structures (the P2 in the head, but not only) of Atlanticist profile that guaranteed our latitudes the balance of Jalta and that, therefore, saw in these structures the famous compensation chamber. If we do not do so with this depth and height, we will find it difficult to answer the question which the senators and the senators and parliamentarians would like to answer with the completion of the Commission of Inquiry into the massacre in Via Fani. [[Applause from the Misso-SI-SEL Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-04-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-803.ana.u51	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-04-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-803.ana.u52	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-04-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-803.ana.u53	GIOVANARDI (GAL (GS, PPI, M, Id, E-E, MPL, RI)). Mr President, we shall be voting in favour of the resolution tabled, although I would like briefly to remind you of a truth which, by means of mystifications, films and books, perhaps escapes. Aldo Moro, when he was murdered, was president of Christian Democracy. He was the president of the newspaper "The People," but those who today go to Maglie, in the main square, find a statue of Aldo Moro with the Unity in their pockets. Some might say that it is not serious and that it is an interpretation of the sculptor, but I put myself as a student who in that square sees the monument of Aldo Moro with the Unity in his pocket. He'll think he was a leader of the left. It is as if there had been a newspaper of the Holy See or "L'Osservatore Romano" in the pocket of a statue of Garibaldi or Mazzini. It's a paradox. The problem - I come to the report and its importance, together with that of the Commission - is that the overlapping of such tragic facts - I speak from the case of Moro and the others of the time, which we recalled this morning, like the massacres of Bologna and Ustica - of musical performances, films, screenplays and science fiction books risks totally mystifying the historical reality and those who were the victims of a barbaric assassination, especially for the important political role played in the history of Italy as President of the Council and as a character of a culture and a capacity to solve the truly incredible problems. The Red Brigades themselves wrote in their document that in Aldo Moro they wanted to strike the guarantor of international and national balances. It represented the power that was to be overthrown for them. Mr President, I hope that this debate will lead to a result. I understand that the government, in its silent statement, has not grasped the spirit of all the 360 degree interventions. All those who have spoken have hoped that the documentation, still covered by secrecy, will be made public. If we do not play a game between deaf people, since there are so many deadlines in June and August and then the return of those in Via Fani next year, let us make sure that, when the Head of State, the Presidents of the Senate and of the Chamber will make the ritual appeal for the institutions to be ready for any intervention to shed light and overcome the obstacles to the truth, this appeal is useless because for those dates the Government will have desecrated those acts and, therefore, on those acts not only the Committee of Inquiry, but also historians, journalists, public opinion and those interested in those things will have made an opinion. I think this would already be a great step forward. Otherwise it risks becoming a game of hypocrisy. In fact, talking about misdirections, film and book interpretation is a different thing. Senator Gasparri reminded my colleague Fragalà that - I would like to say this to this House - he was a courageous Member of Parliament. I don't know whether it's true or not, but the investigations that ended at the Palermo Public Prosecutor's Office would have determined that a few years ago he was beaten to death for the courageous action he was taking against the Mafia, to counter the organized underworld and push some of his clients to collaborate with the institutions. Fragalà had joined the Parliamentary Committee of Inquiry into terrorism in Italy and the causes of the failure to identify those responsible for the massacres convinced of the theory of the missile in relation to Ustica and came out with the conviction that the explanation was the bomb, clarifying also why, in harmony with the committee of technical inquiry. Well, in one of these films, that of the director Martinelli, the political character deportee, the most treacherous and annoying for the viewers, was given the name of Mr Fragalà. The family protests have done absolutely nothing. As you can see, this is yet another episode in which a person who within a Committee of Inquiry had behaved in a clear and crystal clear way and in conscience had matured certain decisions, to make it become something else in the eyes of the tens of thousands of viewers of these films. Moreover, I remind my colleagues that these shows - often financed by the regions and therefore by the public - give a representation that is not based on documents of the time. One thing is to talk about misdirections or elaborations made shortly after the events, at most about twenty years; one thing is to reason on documents that come before the events, then on formal acts between our Services and the Italian Government before the events, so it is difficult to think that there can be preventive misdirections, even before the events take place. They therefore have their own genuineness these documents, which of course - like all documents - are to be verified, analyzed and deepened. In confirming the positive vote on this motion for a resolution, I once again appeal to the Government to put the Italian State and the institutions in a situation of credibility and also to make a contribution so that, in the time remaining, the Commission can acquire these acts. In this way, in the final report it will be able to take into account what emerges and what I consider explosive revelations, but perhaps others might consider irrelevant. The only way to determine who is right, however, is for them to be made public and for the Commission to be able to examine them very carefully. [[Applause from Senator Liuzzi.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-04-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-803.ana.u54	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-04-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-803.ana.u55	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-04-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-803.ana.u56	Gasparri (FI-PdL XVII). Mr President, having just made a wide-ranging speech, to which I refer, I will not repeat the reasons why we voted in favour, even though we have a completely autonomous contribution to rereading, which we believe is more faithful to the progress of the events that preceded, accompanied and followed the crime of Aldo Moro and his escort. We shall therefore vote in favour of this motion for a resolution, together with the hope expressed by other groups that the Commission will be able to select few and qualified objectives for its remaining activities and complete its work, given that the time that separates us from the end of the parliamentary term is certainly not very long, beyond the exact date. In the light of the two tranches of the report already published, examined and submitted to the Senate Assembly today, I believe that the Commission's work will certainly be positive, because it has already achieved its objective. I renew the hope that all the institutions can contribute to the removal of the secrecy constraint on certain documents which, from decades ago, are of common access to all. The resolution calls for this and President Fioroni's report shared the call we had made to Senator Giovanardi and I, together with other colleagues. We hope that the government authorities, which are ultimately responsible for a decision, will also do so. I should like to conclude, Mr President, by saying that this is not just a formal issue because many journalistic, television and film reconstructions (not only literary ones, but also those which sometimes have a claim to the reconstruction of the truth) could use more accurate knowledge or the dissemination of those texts could more easily refute various fantasies. In this spirit, for the reasons which I have explained amply in my general speech, the Forza Italia Group will vote in favour of the resolution that we have signed and also helped to formulate. I would remind you that the part concerning the removal of secrets is also the result of our repeated request, which was also made in the Commission with the presentation of an agenda. [[Applause from Senator Malan. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-04-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-803.ana.u57	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-04-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-803.ana.u58	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-04-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-803.ana.u59	CUCCA (PD). Mr President, my explanation of vote will be very short because I believe that the report proposed by Senator Fornaro today is absolutely exhaustive. I would like to start by saying a sentence from Mr Moro. The truth is always enlightening. It helps us to be brave. I believe that this is the starting point for the work of this Commission and it also helps us to understand the reasons why we were led to set up the Commission itself. I have also heard today mixed views on the need for the establishment of this Commission, considering that everything that was to be known had already been known and had already emerged. Well, I believe that the results which the Commission has achieved so far in carrying out its work show exactly the opposite. I believe that the work that the Commission is doing, as the report also points out, has been particularly fruitful. In this respect, I should like to thank President Fioroni, who is leading this Commission in a masterful way, as well as those who have attended the Commission more fruitfully, actively and assiduously. I am referring in an exemplary way to Senator Fornaro, whose presentation of the report confirms my opinion, to Senators Gotor, Corsini and to Senator Gasparri himself, with whom there have been interlocutions sometimes even with very strong tones, which have certainly contributed to a good outcome of the work of this Commission. An effective and valuable contribution has also been made by all those who took part in the meetings of the Commission. I also think it is necessary to thank all the staff who are accompanying the Commission in its work, especially for the fact that - it should be remembered - this Commission has very low costs, having extremely low resources available. The staff therefore works in a completely free way, but despite this, they are carrying out the work in an exemplary way, achieving extraordinary results. I would also like to point out that the topics under investigation have been approached in a new way. Consider, for example, the fact that it has been possible to carry out investigations using the new technologies, which have made it possible to shed light on some shadow areas that until now had emerged from the examination of the maps relating to the whole affair. Think of the ballistics study carried out in the course of the Commission's work, which has allowed us to reconstruct with sufficient approximation the way in which the weapons were used in via Fani when the massacre was consumed. We have had eight trials, four Commissions on terrorism and massacres, the Parliamentary Committee of Inquiry into Masonic Lodge P2, the Parliamentary Committee of Inquiry into the Mitrokhin dossier; we have 3 million pages available which, despite the very high number, had left many shadow areas on the Moro affair. The Commission's work is gradually dissipating these shadows. There have been obvious contradictions - and they have already been made absolutely clear - also from the hearing of numerous witnesses and from the examination of those papers; however, I think it is useless to talk about it again, even if it is not to abuse the patience of colleagues and considering the late hour, because all these issues have been dealt with in a comprehensive way. Incongruities have emerged in the reconstruction of facts, lies, retiring texts or that in any case have never been heard, even though they have been aware that they could have been decisive and unfortunately some of them have already died. There have been obviously bad investigations or others that have never been carried out, as well as proposed investigative hypotheses that have never been taken into account. That is what has emerged so far from the Commission's work. So many truths that until now had been silent are emerging in a disruptive way, as was well evidenced by Senator Fornaro's report. It is therefore certainly essential that the Commission continue its activity, not for who knows what ambitions of Titus, Caius, Sempronio or of people who up to now have worked in a fruitful way on the matter, but simply to render justice to those who have helped to write the history of our country and its families, but also to those victims who have lost their lives to serve the country on the occasion of the massacre of Via Fani and who have long waited to know the true truth. We can only do this by running the device. The need to declassify many acts of which it is not possible to make public the content has emerged unequivocally after thirty-nine years and which we are certain could make an absolutely essential contribution to the reconstruction of the facts as they have actually gone and also to reconstruct the truth about the whole story. I therefore declare the Democratic Group's vote in favour of the resolution that has been tabled. I would also like to point out in this connection that the two reports drawn up so far have been adopted virtually unanimously in both circumstances and I believe that there has been one abstention for the second report. However, it seems to me that the work is continuing fruitfully, carried out by all the members of the Commission belonging to all the political forces. In this sense it is therefore desirable, as happened also in the Chamber, that the report be approved and that it be given to the device in which, as I said, it is also hoped the declassification of many of the acts remained secret until now and which we consider essential instead for the correct reconstruction of the facts and to bring out those truths that up to now have remained at least partially in the shadow. I therefore confirm the Democratic Party's vote in favour of the resolution tabled. [[Applause from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-04-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-803.ana.u60	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-04-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-803.ana.u61	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-04-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-803.ana.u62	Mr Fornaro, rapporteur. Mr President, I am only speaking to thank my fellow Members for their speeches. I also believe that I am interpreting the thinking of all the senators belonging to the Commission and I hope that this debate will be a spur to the conclusion and drafting of the final report as soon as possible. I would like to take this opportunity to thank the Commission's officials, consultants and documentaries in a non-formal way. Finally, I would like to draw the House's attention to one aspect. We have all rightly recalled the sacrifice of Aldo Moro today and I think it is right to recall in this House that on 16 March 1978 they were killed. [[The Assembly stands. Applause]] Oreste Leonardi, Domenico Ricci, Francesco Zizzi, Giulio Rivera and Raffaele Iozzino. Our thoughts go to them and to the families of these heroes of the Homeland who were brutally killed in that massacre. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-04-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-803.ana.u63	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-04-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-803.ana.u64	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-04-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-803.ana.u65	MARTELLI (M5S). We call for the vote to be taken by simultaneous ballot by electronic means.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-04-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-803.ana.u66	I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I call on Senator Cucca and other senators to vote by a simultaneous vote on motion for a resolution No 1 on documents XXIII, Nos. 10 and 23. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-04-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-803.ana.u67	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-04-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-803.ana.u68	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-04-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-803.ana.u69	AIROLA (M5S). Mr President, I have tabled Question No 4-07337 on certain facts which, if verified, would be very serious and undermine the perhaps already little credibility of AGCOM, an authority which, as you know, is a public institution with very important powers in the field of regulation and supervision in the telecommunications, audiovisual and postal markets. AGCOM is certainly an independent authority and not subject to the direct supervision of the Government but, despite this, its members are nevertheless subject to the code of conduct of civil servants, in particular to the prohibition of receiving and accepting gifts of particular value. More specifically, even in the Code of Ethics of AGCOM itself, Article 7 provides for a prohibition for employees to accept gifts, if not of minor value, in particular from subjects that could undermine the independence of the Authority. The events I am referring to occurred between 28 February and 1 March 2017 and would concern some members of the Authority - Professor Antonio Nicita, the Secretary General, Dr. Riccardo Capecchi, and the Councillor for the technological innovation of the Authority itself, engineer Vincenzo Lobianco - who would go to Barcelona for a World Congress on Mobile Telecommunications. Now, there's nothing wrong with that. The problem is that they would have stayed in a very luxurious hotel in the centre of Barcelona, at the expense of a large telecommunications company that produces transmission systems for mobile network infrastructure. Now, we ask the government to intervene to ascertain the truthfulness of these facts. If this is true, in fact, despite the fact that AGCOM is independent, measures must be taken, especially in this historical period in which AGCOM will pass very important decisions concerning the future of Italian telecommunications. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-04-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-803.ana.u70	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-04-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-803.ana.u71	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-04-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-803.ana.u72	GIROTTO (M5S). Mr President, once again we are talking about electricity bills because there are further problems, in this case even worse because we are talking about a lack of zero-cost regulatory measures that would allow us to reduce the cost of electricity bills. Four and a half years have passed since the European Union Directive No 27 of 2012 on energy efficiency and three years since the legislative decree transposing that Directive, but we are still waiting for the Electricity Authority to produce the document that should allow a different management of the demand market. Not only has the Authority not issued this document, but it has not issued the relevant preliminary consultation document, so we are in such a goddamn late, excuse me for the deadline. Demand management means that at zero cost we can improve the criticalities of the electric market, allowing suppliers, but above all consumers, that is end users, to participate in aggregate form; by combining they manage to make their presence in the market weigh less when it goes into situations of stress and difficulty. There is therefore absolutely no need for new laws: it is enough only that the Authority deliberates and complies with what it has to do and in this way, through the aggregation of demand, through a management of the infraday market closer to delivery, therefore going more towards real time, through parallel policies of promotion of systems of accumulation of electric mobility, all measures at zero cost for which there is no need for new laws, we can make the electric market more efficient and therefore decrease the cost of the electric bill of the Italians. I'm sorry it's too little. Not only that, but if we do not do these things we expose ourselves to the risk of yet another infringement procedure, so not only do we not allow a saving in bills to Italians, but we risk yet another payment linked to the sanction. I therefore appeal to the Government, to you, Mr President, to all political forces to urge the Electricity and Gas Authority. As I have said so many times, this Parliament has given up its role in energy policy and is giving it completely to the Authority. So what are we doing here? [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-04-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-803.ana.u73	The motions, questions and questions received by the Presidency will be published in Annex B to today's report. I remember that the Senate will come back to meet in public today, at 4 p.m., with the agenda already printed and distributed. The sitting was closed at 12.56 p.m.
