ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-824.ana.u1	The sitting is open (9:33 a.m.). The Minutes shall be read. Mr Frevezzi, Secretary, read the Minutes of the afternoon sitting of the previous day. PRESIDENT. - The debate is Since there were no comments, the Minutes were approved.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-824.ana.u2	The list of senators on leave and absent on assignment received from the Senate, as well as further communications to the Assembly, will be published in Annex B to today's Minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-824.ana.u3	I would warn you that qualified votes can be taken in the course of today's sitting by electronic means. Therefore, from this moment the period of 20 minutes from the notice provided for in Article 119, paragraph 1, of the Regulation (9:37 hours) begins.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-824.ana.u4	The next item is the continuation of the debate on the draft law No 10-362-388-395-849-874-B, already approved by the Senate in a text resulting from the unification of the draft own-initiative law of Senators Manconi and others; Casson and others; Barani; De Petris and De Cristofaro; Buccarella and others; Torrisi and modified by the Chamber of Deputies. I would remind you that yesterday's afternoon's sitting concluded the examination of the articles of the text proposed by the Commission and the amendments tabled to them.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-824.ana.u5	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-824.ana.u6	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-824.ana.u7	STEFANI (LN-Aut). Mr President, for the umpteenth time, we are still dealing here with the problem of introducing torture into our legal system. This issue, on paper, could perhaps appear to be the simplest in the world in the eyes of our fellow citizens. Instead, it was seen how the path, in some ways, was full of pitfalls. The history of this provision was born in the Senate with the introduction of a rule adopted almost unanimously or, in any case, by a very large majority. The House of Deputies then changed the text. Today we are talking about a partially modified measure. Let us remember, however, that the majorities are always the same and were those that had provided in the Chamber of Deputies a hypothesis of crime that the then chief of police, Dr. Pansa, heard in the audition, defined a norm against the police. His argument was so lapidary and stentorous that, despite this, it was still possible to maintain the plant of the normative structure. I recall that it was said that it was a rule against the police because - as can be read from the text launched by the Chamber of Deputies - the configuration of the crime passed through violence and threats, carried out in order to obtain information or to win a resistance; classic hypothesis in which an arrest is made against perhaps a recalcitrant criminal. It even led to the punishment of an officer or public officer from five to fifteen years. The result was a great media dispute, to the point that - I remind my fellow Members - when the amendments were started in this House, there was a great participation of the representatives of the Forces of Order, who saw from these forums what was being done. I am referring to the elimination of the engraving, which means that only one violence or threat is sufficient to cause acute physical suffering or a verifiable psychic trauma. Now, gentlemen, those who work in the world of law know how certain concrete cases can be assessed before a magistrate and therefore can well understand how the adjective "cute" implies an assessment difficult to ponder and how even the psychic trauma "verifiable" - which is different from "vervised" - is difficult and labile configuration, thus presenting itself as a very wide mesh net. This led to a suspension of the measure: precisely because of the considerations of the police forces and the activity that we of the North League carried out in this Assembly, the examination of the measure was suspended, in order to arrive today at these two amendments of the rapporteurs, which try to mitigate the effects considered pernicious towards the Forces of the Order. Although these two amendments have been approved, we believe that the regulatory framework cannot yet be accepted; this, of course, does not want to object to or make any consideration of the fact that a torture offence must be envisaged in our legal system, because in fact this is a criminal hypothesis not provided for in our legal system. The fact that it is not foreseen does not mean that it is a crime belonging to the medieval world, because unfortunately there can be and must be punished. From the wording of the Commission's examination and explanations of vote on the amendments, however, there has been a case which, in our opinion, can be interpreted in various ways, leaving room for purely pretentious complaints against the operators of the Forces of Order. We are faced with the configuration of a crime that, in some ways, seems almost psychotic, I am given the term: on the one hand it is said that, if the facts are committed by a public officer in the execution of the service, it is expected the imprisonment from five to twelve years; at the same time, if legitimate measures are carried out private or limited rights (such as arrests), this does not apply. It almost seems that you want to predict something, except then remove it, so one hand gives and the other takes away. If we focus only on this first part of the text and on Article 1, we forget other fundamentals, on which we have a deep and continuous perplexity, which, in some cases, becomes firm opposition. Let us turn, for example, to the provision of Article 613-b, the incitement of the public officer to commit torture. No amending proposal has been accepted on this text, therefore it has not been amended in any way: yet we remember well that, according to our legal system, for the incitement itself, if not accepted and if the crime is not committed, there is no imprisonment under any circumstances. Here, instead, in the hypothesis of a public official in charge of public service who instigates (and neither is it written "publicly") to commit a crime of torture, even if the incitement is not accepted and even if the crime is not committed anyway, it is expected the imprisonment from six months to three years. This is a rule specifically made for the Forces of Order, almost to mean that we foresee a crime case because the Forces of Order do this. Which isn't true. The Forces of Order in Italy operate with a great spirit of self-denial. Although they have a serious limit on means, resources and men, they devote their work to the protection of the law and the protection of citizens. And you can't predict such a thing, ad hoc, as if to say that we expect it because it can happen (it happens) that there are incitements to torture. We are talking about our state, our nation, our order and a civilization that must be of legality. For this reason, we continue firmly to say that this rule had to be totally expunged from the text, deleted. Then, however, we remain silent and constantly overwhelmed by the scope of Article 3, which we remember and read, because all citizens must know it. It provides that: The refusal or expulsion or extradition of a person to a State is not allowed - and we know very well what the problem is here in Italy with regard to immigration - if there are reasonable grounds to believe that it risks being subjected to torture. In assessing these grounds, account shall also be taken of the existence in that State of systematic and serious violations of human rights. Gentlemen, we are making a purely possible and purely probabilistic assessment. Obviously, anyone who enters Italian territory to ask for asylum, humanitarian protection and subsidiary, the recognition of refugee status and everything the Italian law makes available, will do so on the basis of a possibility: the existence of a risk. It is obvious that a mere statement is enough and any expulsion or rejection will be stopped immediately. For this reason, we cannot make a positive assessment of the measure under consideration, and for this reason we insist and express, as we have already done, our vote against it. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-824.ana.u8	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-824.ana.u9	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-824.ana.u10	LO MORO (Art. 1-MDP). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I begin by saying that Group 1 - Democratic and Progressive Movement will not fail to support this measure. He does so with conviction but also with a critical spirit. Our assessment of the measure is overall a positive assessment, although there are so many elements that are not satisfactory. I start with the elements that are missing. I remind everyone, and I remind myself, that we are faced with the need to introduce the crime of torture into Italian law and, specifically, into Italian criminal law. And we do so very late, more than thirty years after the European Convention for the Prevention of Torture and thirty years after the ratification of this Convention. So we do this - I repeat - very late, and there will also be a reason for this delay. In the meantime, what crime are we talking about? We are talking about a crime that exists in history and also in the current chronicle, which quickly becomes history. The offence of torture also exists regardless of national criminal law. It is present in international conventions and, specifically, it is a crime that we must introduce into criminal law because the legislation of a democratic country such as Italy, which in fact bans torture, cannot fail to transpose and not adapt to the commitments it has undertaken and cannot fail to introduce a crime like this. We say this knowing that torture, in democratic Italy, is not a custom of our country and is not recurrent. In fact, it is a despicable crime, which has only rarely been displayed by the judiciary, the news and politics. So this is not a necessity to be addressed, as is the case in Syria or other countries of this kind, but the opportunity to establish principles of democracy that qualify and guide our political and administrative action. We say that, because in this House there is often a difference between those who are responsible for the Forces of Order and those who are against it, as if the crime of torture were to affect them. Instead, I believe that introducing the crime of torture is a way of defending the honour of the Forces of the Order, which serve our country every day and are very far away in daily practice from contemptible crimes like this. If then there are localized episodes in which the crime of torture is realized, then it is obvious that these must be hit and punished. I was talking about what's missing. We are implementing a Convention that provides for a definition, to which I will return later, and a series of consequences, because it gives a technical and legal judgment, but also ethical, historical and moral judgment on the crime of torture. One of the consequences of the introduction of the crime of torture is that it is such a despicable case that it cannot foresee or imagine prescriptions; it cannot be imagined that the State is forced to declare the prescription, just as it is not imaginable - as the Convention says in an express way - that these crimes are dealt with by granting amnesty or indult. This is not an inappropriate speech, because the last indult, the one in 2006, was about all the crimes; so today, after the introduction of the torture crime, we should say that it is also about this. What is therefore lacking - and it is serious that this provision is lacking - is first and foremost a specific rule on the prescription, which the House had also agreed to introduce, doubling the limitation periods for this crime; moreover, there is no prohibition of amnesty and indult. It seems to us a duty to point this out, but it also seems to us that these shortcomings can be addressed elsewhere, with the reform of Article 157 of the penal code on prescription and in any improbable, and in my opinion absolutely unacceptable, legislation on amnesty and indult (I do not think it is appropriate to go in this direction). So there are two rather important things missing. There has been a great deal of discussion in this House, as well as a great deal of discussion about the definition. I would like to remind everyone that our guide must be the Convention, which we all mention, but which few have read. Indeed, the elements of apparent contradiction reported are all found in Article 1 of the Convention. This article - as I say right away - provides in the second paragraph for the possibility, for national legislation, to adopt different regulations, which must of course contain provisions on the subject, but also of a more general scope. What do I refer to? I would defend the text of the House. I would remind everyone that Article 1 was born when, with a text already defined and dismissed by the Commission (on which we therefore do not claim any paternity), the Senate removed the finalization, which was also foreseen in the text of the House and which in my view had to be maintained. In fact, in Article 1 this finalization is there; historically torture (as also emerges from the consultation of any dictionary) consists in the use of tools in order to obtain from someone a statement or confession useful for some investigation, always with a finalization. All this is written in the Convention and all this belongs to the history of torture. But I must say, with great sincerity, that the most recent history has also seen an evolution. Just yesterday, a complaint by Amnesty International concerning another country, Syria (not Italy), showed that torture is not used to obtain information, but only as a system to break the prisoners, degrade them, punish them and humiliate them. I read this passage to draw your attention to the fact that the European Court of Human Rights itself, in its famous ruling on the G8 and referring to Italy, speaks of reprisals, does not speak of those finalizations referred to in the Convention against Torture, because sometimes the jurisprudence goes beyond the literal tenor of the written words. The fact that there is no finalization can represent an element that could be better specified, but it allows us to have a wider standard, so we all know that there is torture even if an act is carried out by simple retaliation, to break the dignity and the will of the tortured person. Another highly discussed aspect is whether treatment should be inhumane and degrading, or degrading, because the headings of the Convention refer to cruel, inhuman or degrading treatment. I would remind everyone, however, that when we talk about it, we refer not so much to torture, but to other cruel, inhuman or degrading treatment or punishments. I still remember - let us mention to the end the things we read - that when the European Court of Human Rights then speaks specifically of torture, in the Strasbourg judgment of 7 April 2015, with reference to the case of Cestaro, and therefore to Italy, it speaks yes of reprisals, but it also speaks specifically, with reference to this expression, of violation of every principle of humanity and respect for the person. It is like saying that treatments are simultaneously inhuman and degrading. In other places the aspect is even more evident, because there is no doubt that among the treatments of this kind torture, by definition, is the one that simultaneously involves inhumane and degrading treatment. Of course, we could have changed the text. We did not vote in favour of the proposed amendments because they are bound by an agreement, even by a majority, but this does not seem to take us far, out of the seed. I conclude by saying that we will vote on this text, albeit with all its limitations, for a fundamental political choice, because Italy must introduce the crime of torture. On this fundamental political choice the limits of the text are limits that we know and that we do not suffer, but we accept and accept them we express twice confidence: trust in the Forces of the Order, that every day work in Italy and must consider themselves extraneous to this system for the reasons I have already set out, and confidence in the judiciary that will interpret the new norms well, because the definition of the concept of torture is within the criminal law, but also in the history of humanity. We therefore express trust in the State, represented by the judiciary and the Forces of Order, and we are sure to do with this text - which I hope the House will be able to defend, despite being the product of a elaboration that comes from the Senate, slightly different from the thought of the House - a step forward towards the civilization of our country. [[Applause from the Group Art.1-MDP and Senator Lo Giudice.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-824.ana.u11	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-824.ana.u12	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-824.ana.u13	FALANGA (ALA-SCLP). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, when I read the text of the draft law, which has been transmitted by the House and which we are debating today, I was somewhat shocked by the total lack of coherence and political direction that we, as legislators, very often - alas - manifest. How is it possible, in fact, that in these days is assisted to the most imaginative and funamistic attempts - I mean the self-defense - to reduce the margins of interpretative discretion, and then, in a matter as delicate as the one we examine today, to rely on locutions however uncertain and characterized by risky subjectivisms? We all know that this bill has recorded the responsible concerns of the leaders of all the Forces of the Order who, in turn, have received alarming requests from security operators daily exposed to the need for the use of force and the consequent responsibilities. It cannot be ignored that the legislative measure in question concerns very sensitive aspects and must be calibrated in such a way as to combine the necessary protection of citizens with the regulatory coverage of the necessary operations of the guardians of the order. It is rather peculiar, moreover (but I believe that we are now used to everything) that on the one hand we want to give more space to private defence and on the other hand, even for commendable purposes such as the repression of torture, it exposes itself to risk, because of the poor formulation of the laws, the action of the State. We also know that the problems raised by several parties, including in the preparatory work, relate once again to the need to establish truly objective criteria and parameters which, as far as possible, can ensure that the courts apply the precepts in a reasonable and predictable manner. Ladies and gentlemen, one of the first things that young law students are taught is the importance, the value, in the perspective of the highest good, of legal certainty, of the predictability of decisions. To be certain, even before appealing to the judge, of what his decision will be is in fact a guarantee of sharing the rules and respect for the primacy of the laws. On the other hand, this fundamental objective is essentially addressed by the same nomative function as the Court of Cassation. I do not think it is necessary to stress that the framework of the existing one is characterized by the absolute unpredictability of the decisions, with creative, suppressive and manipulative interpretations that often, through the instrument of the so-called constitutionally oriented interpretation, but identified without addressing the Consulta, they move further and further away from the solid ground of positive law. The story of self-defense, in this sense, is emblematic. The 2006 reform, which should have ensured a solid protection of the aggressor in cases of trespassing, has, in fact, been rendered ineffective in terms of interpretation and after some resounding episodes of news and condemnations felt as deeply unfair, has led to the current plans for a new reform of Article 52 of the Criminal Code. It is truly surprising, then, that in this context it is considered possible to build the crime of torture, provided for and punished by Article 613- bis of the Code, which is newly introduced, with formulas and phrases that do not give sufficient guarantees in terms of the typicality and determination of the case. Let us be clear: it is not a question of questioning the need for a law or the sharing and deserving of the goods that we are trying to protect, but rather of being able to draw up a balanced and easy-to-use text, which is intended to last over time and not to force us to take further action. The text that came to us from the House was imbued with a certain culture and ideology. The Presidency of the Senate Justice Commission, which I welcome, and Senator Lumia, who is also very much appreciated because he has committed a great deal of his time and knowledge in this area to make improvements to the text. Thus, in particular, gravity has been restored in relation to the threats that could integrate the crime of torture, with the advantage of making use of a concept widely present and known in the current criminal system. I am referring to the serious threats referred to in Article 612, paragraph 2, of the Criminal Code. The concept of the severity of the threats has been restored because, differently and paradoxically, even a threat that depends on the sensitivity of each one, for example if you do not do this, I would have blamed you - even this - for the criminal hypothesis referred to in the crime of torture. However, we have restored the prediction that the threat must be serious. Similarly, I welcomed with satisfaction the elimination of the proposed paragraph 3 of Article 613- bis of the penal code which, in an absolutely pleonastic way, if not misleading, specified that for the purpose of the existence of the crime of torture the suffering should be further than that resulting from the execution of legitimate private or limited measures of the right, as to say that we feel the need to affirm that it is not torture to be legitimately arrested or to serve a sentence after a conviction. It remains - alas - unsurpassed the central knot constituted by the technique of construction of the conduct, which moreover is free form and therefore does not offer significant cues of typicality. In fact, alongside the repeated violence and serious threats, there is a possible and further way of the crime that can be summarized in the expression "acting with cruelty." It is, in all evidence, a criminal law in white, highly inadvisable, for the reasons already mentioned, in such a delicate area. The case has been polarized... [[Call the president back.]] FALANGA (ALA-SCLP). Mr President, it does not seem to me that the minutes at my disposal have passed. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator Falanga, we work with a stopwatch, we don't make decisions... FALANGA (ALA-SCLP). I don't know why, but I have a feeling that the minutes at my disposal are shorter than those of the others. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator Falanga, I'll give you an extra minute, but we checked with Greenwich and the time is right. FALANGA (ALA-SCLP). Forgive me, Mr President, but I have this feeling just when you're chairing, but I don't think anything wrong, let me be clear. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. No, you think wrong. Please, Senator Falanga, continue. FALANGA (ALA-SCLP). Mr President, I shall finish. Another issue that has not been removed during the next steps in the Chamber is the provision in Article 2, which provides - it is good and fair - for the unusability of statements or information obtained as a result of torture. However, there has been a lack of link between distorted information and the process in which it is used. Perhaps it would be useful to do so, because, otherwise, we could find ourselves with a lot of complaints in this regard. In conclusion, despite this unfairness and the criticalities that I still see in the measure that we are preparing to lay off, the aim and the objective pursued are very noble, fair and correct. Moreover, I want to give an appreciation response, because appreciation is not only stated, but also expressed by its own conduct and actions. I expressed my appreciation to President D'Ascola for the conduct of the work, as well as to Senators Lumia and Palma. For them, too, I declare the ALA-SCLP Group's vote in favour of the Senate. [[Applause from the ALA-SCCLP and FI-PdL XVII groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-824.ana.u14	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-824.ana.u15	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-824.ana.u16	GIOVANARDI (GAL (DI, Id, GS, M, MPL, RI, E-E)). Mr President, first of all I would like to say something outside this Chamber: when have there been torture in Italy, such as those that have been mentioned too often by Members in this House? I'm talking about the Reni case or the Italians tortured and slaughtered in Dhaka. When, in our history, Police, Carabinieri, Guardia di Finanza or magistrates have carried out such conduct as to lead to torture, as the one that is rightly denounced by Amnesty International when it speaks of the countries of the world - many, unfortunately - in which torture exists? Let's start by saying that, compared to all this prosopopea that has been done in the fight against a crime, Italy - it has to be said with pride and consistency all over the world - has cut off terrorism, fought organized crime without ever resorting to torture, and I stress that. If we do not say this, those who have said that this measure has been handled too many times to strike and criminalize the police and carabinieri. We have heard many times in this House mention cases that have absolutely nothing to do with torture. This must be said because from here comes a confused text - we saw it yesterday in the debate - which made a ping pong between the House and the Senate, with frankly incomprehensible changes. Think that the House has sent him back (and the Senate has corrected him again) with that clause that said that anyone who comes from anywhere in the world where human rights are not respected, has the right to asylum in Italy. The heads of the Police, the Carabinieri and the Finance came to warn us that we had to start with 1.1 billion Chinese because, as it was written, all the Chinese (people's China, of course) had the right to asylum in Italy; then, 90% from Africa and, to follow, almost all the countries of Asia. What did this rule have to do with torture? It has not been understood, yet it has been included by the House in this provision. Again, as the colleague of the League said, there is a vague hint - confused, as in all our laws - of the possibility that those who theoretically can be subjected to torture in countries where they practice it (and, unfortunately, there are so many in the world) would have the right to asylum in our country. Does this have anything to do with the torture we have in mind? Absolutely nothing, but this rule has been inserted. 10:12 a.m. (Follows YOUNG PEOPLE). The text is then ambiguous on the psychic trauma. Did anyone dispute that the psychic trauma is verifiable? No wonder it wasn't. There will be no member of the organized underworld, 'ndrangheta, camorra or mafia who, once arrested, will not be advised by his lawyers to say that the arrest or interrogation resulted in a psychic trauma. Then, of course, this means that someone will go under trial and under investigation for this accusation; then, perhaps, there will be expert advice and counter-drilling to go and determine whether the trauma was there or not. It comes from threats: we have written that threats, that is, words, can involve torture. We wrote it in Italy; we are not in a country where perhaps there can be refined forms of psychological torture on the arrested. Someone has remembered - it may be true - that in the darkest periods of the history of Chile and Argentina pressure was put on the arrested, threatening them indirectly of reprisals on their family members. But does it seem to you that Italy is a country in which our judiciary, which has so many flaws, can intervene threatening reprisals on the relatives of the arrested? Does it seem to you that one can write in a law that speaks of torture that threats, the simple threats that create a psychic disturbance, are in turn defined as torture? Does it seem to you that we can write that incitement, which is a verbal thing - it can also be a joke - which does not involve any consequence because then downstream there is no torture, is punished, even this severely, even if the crime is not consumed by anyone and the trial is done simply to the words? Do you want the police to be quiet and serene at the moment they carry out their activities when they know that in extremis in the Senate we were able to expunge the standard of the House that it was enough to refuse violence in a public demonstration to be charged with torture? Let's be clear: in the stadiums or in the streets, we see scenes of Police and Carabinieri attacked by people disguised as helmets and batons; well, the rule written by the House defined as torture the reaction of an agent to this violence. Resistance to violence by others resulted in and was defined as a torture offence. Unfortunately, something very sad happens, that is that public opinion is disinformed about the controversy for which in Italy we are late from introducing the crime of torture and is not made aware - alas - of the fact that instead, fortunately, because there are the offences of beatings, of injustice, of injury, of manslaughter, of the criminal offences aggravated, the single person or the official public that is stain of these crimes is already severely punished today, as has been punished (justly or unjustly according to the points of view) until in Cassation those who have been involved in the events of the G8 of Genoa. So the question I ask myself is: will this crime be applied in Italy? In conclusion, Madam President, we must be careful, because we continue to say, as has been done in some important cases, that, for example, it is torture to block a person's stomach on the ground and put the handcuffs on him. I have already spoken in this Chamber of the heroic Carabinieri who in front of Palazzo Chigi stopped Preiti when he shot the carabiniere and, instead of shooting him, jumped on him, threw him on the ground (there is the photo of the carabiniere riding the person who tried to kill his colleague and put the cuffs behind his back): well in other cases, such as that of Aldrovandi, this has been called a torture. Also, if the one who shot and was blocked had a heart attack, according to the bill under consideration that carabiniere would go to life imprisonment. THE COURT (PD). Bullshit! AIROLA (M5S). Torture is what Giovanardi did to us! GIOVANARDI (GAL (DI, Id, GS, M, MPL, RI, E-E)). I did not say that, but I did say that of my colleagues in this House, by making these cases, which have now been clarified even in the courts, equal to the crime of torture. This is the danger that you run when in advance you do not want to hit serious crimes, but you want to make a surreptitious, preventive and ideological controversy against Police, Carabinieri and Forces of the Order. Then we do not realize that perhaps, by doing this controversy, we favor the organized underworld, the 'ndrangheta, the Camorra and the Mafia that, in the folds of this order, they also know how to put in difficulties magistrates and Forces of the order. For these reasons, Madam President, obviously this rule, this sense of torture as it is drawn cannot be voted on.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-824.ana.u17	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-824.ana.u18	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-824.ana.u19	ALBERTINI (AP-CpE-NCD). Madam President, I shall begin with a very well-known quotation but not always applied, at least in a recent past: nemo tenetur se deteggere. No one, in a civilized country, in a rule of law, can be obliged to assert his criminal responsibility, nor must he be subjected to coercive actions for this to happen, even if in a past not far away confession was considered the queen of evidence, that is the most appropriate way to assert the repression of crimes by the State. I allow myself to make a brief digression with regard to a sovereign, Maria Teresa of Austria, who is remembered in the history of Europe, and even more modestly in the history of my city, as an enlightened sovereign who in her very long reign made many acts of government remembered with positivity for civil development (not only the reform of the cadastre, but good administration and public works, including, for example, the construction of the Teatro alla Scala in Milan), but also intervened with a mode entirely appropriate for the times that, read with today's eyes, seems atrocious, precisely on torture. In 1769 he published an edict, the "Constitutio criminalis theresiana," which came to be operational throughout the Austro-Hungarian Empire. (at 10.20 a.m.) (Following ALBERTINI). The edict stated that not only was torture lawful, but it almost obliged the courts to seek evidence from the commission of crimes; it also introduced - and this is the aspect, if you will, positive and evolving - of the elements of contemplation with respect to the atrocities of what it allowed. For example, the stretching ladder, which was to cause, if prolonged and intensified, the dislocation of the shoulders of the defendant alleged guilty to be confessed, had to be applied for a certain period of time and no later, for a certain intensity and no later. Moreover, although it was admitted that serious burns were caused on the defendant's hips even with the use of candles or other suitable means, this torture had to continue for a certain period; if, in the end, this person, perhaps in dramatic conditions, with an infection for the burns suffered, with his shoulders now unservable, still resisted confession, according to the provisions of this provision was to be considered innocent. What journey has been made in three hundred years in the civilized Milan or in the Austro-Hungarian Empire compared to that condition? More recently, have the Convention for the Protection of Human Rights and the 1984 UN Convention banned all legal civilizations that are part of the civil assembly from using torture and the application of degrading and infamous treatment of punishment? In addressing this issue, our Parliament has had to face up to opposing needs: the need to be able to allow investigations to make the right path, including with the discussion of the accused or the suspects, and the protection of freedom, honour, dignity, and the physical integrity of the persons under investigation. Then there was another subject of particular legal importance, which had to be studied for a long time to find a fair solution: specificity of the crime of torture compared to the common crime, which concerns instead all actions that cause injury (physical or psychic trauma, wounds, suffering and anything else) that are part of the common law. The need to intervene with specificity by inventing, in the sense of finding the appropriate modalities for the characterization of the crime of torture, comes precisely from this reality. Until recently, in the legal systems of the States a form of torture more or less surreptitious was almost considered legal, allowed to allow the State to suppress the crimes in damage to human dignity and the protection of the needs of the person. In this rule, what was the most critical part, not only the distinction between common crimes and specific torture crime, which has been recalled by many of the interventions that we have heard in general debate and now in explanation of vote, but also the fact that introducing this crime would have limited the possibilities of intervention of the law enforcement agencies and judicial bodies in the repression of crimes, I think it has found a fair balance in the edittal formulas that have been identified. It is clear that the State is the only body entitled to the legitimate exercise of violence when it has to fight another violence, but it cannot exceed this limit, because the right to dignity of the person prevails over that of the necessary repression of crimes. I'm talking about law enforcement, the real ones, the ones in order, the ones in which we recognize each other. I bring here a coat of arms that honors me greatly: I am an honorary carabiniere, so who more than I, even more than who was effective, can be proud of the fact that in our country there are these professionalisms and these dignified people who defend us from crimes and pursue the law in the best interest of our community? In these rules there is something about dysfunctions and deviations from the proper task of enforcing the law and repressing crimes and I do not believe that any of the members of the Forces of Order finds within these limits arguments contrary to the proper exercise of their functions. The time limits for this to be safeguarded have been precisely identified. It is an important element, which has had, in the discussions that have been held, also moments of dialectical contrast between those who wanted to deny this possible interpretation contrary to the founding principles of our civil order and those who, on the other hand, considered it a danger. The discretion and common sense of police officers remain intact at times when they legitimately exercise violence, even by depriving freedom and even with forms of aggressive persuasion even though legitimate. Of course, we cannot tolerate what civil states and the evolution of the law onward are considered to be a conquest of our lives. Recalling, therefore, the Latin motto with which I began this brief intervention, nemo tenetur se detegere, the right to silence remains and is confirmed. But, it is not true that nemo tenetur if to cleanse (and here I am making a refuso on purpose): none of us can avoid cleaning, even in our spiritual identity, not only in the physical one, to be to the end a civilized country. [[Applause from the FI-PdL XVII and GAL Groups (DI, Id, GS, M, MPL, RI, E-E). Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-824.ana.u20	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-824.ana.u21	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-824.ana.u22	BUCCARELLA (M5S). Mr President, the Senate is today called upon to vote, at the third parliamentary reading, on the draft law on the crime of torture, which finally fills a legal vacuum, which has been signalled for decades by the jurisdictions of international and national courts and a sense of responsibility and civilisation that has been forced to bear the fact that, until now, the crime of torture has never been the subject of a precise punitive motion. Therefore, we can only welcome this legislative will, to which we have also contributed, recalling that one of the first draft laws of the 5 Star Movement at the beginning of its term of office complied precisely with this, namely the need to introduce the crime of torture. We can, therefore, only express, in the meantime, a satisfaction that this text - it seems - can have a definitive outlet once, at the fourth parliamentary reading, the House will examine it and will consider whether to approve it or make some minor changes which it would also need (and I will explain the reason). We have first of all appreciated the general approach of the crime, which is understood as a common offence. It is an important fact and means that the crime of torture could not, in abstract, answer only the members of the Forces of the Order, but also the "normal" citizen, for example a robber who tortures a family member at home to have the combination of the safe, a mobster who undergoes inhuman and degrading treatments someone for having news of the availability of a repentant and a thousand other hypotheses in which behaviors such as those described may be the work of not members of the Forces of the Order. We have also argued that the issue of setting up a common crime rather than a criminal offence proper to the law enforcement agencies is a question of deleveraging the political controversy, which is punctually also in the Chamber, according to which this legislation is intended to punish or restrict the legitimate freedom of action of the police. It's okay, then, that's a common offense. All right, in our opinion, that a finalization is not specified, the specific dole. Why do you torture someone? For a confession? To punish him? Any mandatory definition - and it could only be so because of criminal law - would risk keeping out, for example and by abstract, even those who were to torture someone just for the sake of doing so. So it's okay that there's no precise finalization. I would like to read the clean text - let us say this - of those elements, which are also present in it, on which we have had some doubts and which concern the plurality of the violence and serious threats or the plurality of the conducts. Let us read together once and for all this text and see if it can work well: anyone will respond to the crime of torture, acting with cruelty, causing acute physical suffering or a verifiable psychic trauma to a person deprived of personal freedom or entrusted to his custody, authority, vigilance, control, care or assistance or who is in conditions of handicapped defense, and will be punished from four to ten years if the fact involves inhumane and degrading treatment for the dignity of the person. It seems acceptable to us, even in this reading that I have given, where I deliberately skipped some parts that are alternatives, and that also exist, and that provide for a punishableity even if there has been no cruelty, but a plurality of serious violence and threats and even if, although not being an inhumane and degrading treatment - difficult to imagine, but let's say as a hypothesis - more conduct has been carried out that has caused the aforementioned physical or psychic sufferings. Announcing therefore the vote of the 5 Star Movement, we think we can support with a favorable vote the provision. Nevertheless, we do not hide, as has also been pointed out in the amending phase in this House, some of the problems that we have pointed out and which we have tried to remedy. The conjunctive particle referred to the inhuman and degrading treatment for the dignity of the person, evidently means that both characteristics for the existence of the crime must be present in that hypothesis. I would remind you, however, that the European Convention for the Protection of Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms and the other international conventions provide that inhumane treatment is put alternately to the treatment of personal dignity by including the disjunctive particle instead of the disjunctive particle. It wasn't like that. We are aware of the case law that supports the principle that inhuman treatment can only be degrading to the person and therefore, probably, this problem that we are facing is overcome by what could be the practical application of the case law; but we would have wanted more reassurance on the point. Other critical issues - if we want to define them - concern the excessive will to reassure the Forces of the Order with the insertion of paragraphs 2 and 3 in Article 613-a, of which I do not read for lack of time, which aim to reassure the public officers and the operators of the Forces of the Order that, if there is no abuse of the powers or violation of the duties inherent in the function or service, the penalty previewed for the crime of torture, increased in case the responsible ones are public officers, does not apply. This, in our view, is already provided for by Article 51 of our penal code; the criminal of the fulfillment of the duty already provides that those subjected to hierarchical structures, as are those of the Forces of the Order and the Armed Forces, can be removed from a judgment of mayorability on the legitimacy of the order that is given to them. Here too it must be remembered that in any case it would be answered by those who gave the order, so a responsible person would always be there, and in any case even the subject is always granted the right not to execute an order that should be criminal. This is the expression of the military penal code, for which, for example, a soldier or a public officer who would have to fire on an unarmed crowd for an order given from above could legitimately oppose his dissent and not follow the order received if he were manifestly criminal. We cannot doubt that they would do the same if the order were to torture someone, apply electrodes to some sensitive part of the body or subject him to inhuman and degrading treatments. We are therefore reassured and in turn want to reassure the Forces of Order that, even with regard to the 5 Star Movement Group, the favorable vote not only does not want but cannot be understood in any way as limiting or as an expression of a sense of distrust towards the Forces of Order, obviously in all cases in which it operates legitimately. The last critical issue we had mentioned was the legitimacy of the private or limited measure of rights. This is the third paragraph of the introduction of Article 613-a. The Senate considered it appropriate to specify that the torture offence does not apply in the event of suffering resulting solely from the execution of legitimate private or limited rights measures. We have noted that it is not so much the legitimacy of the measure that should be subject to the scrutiny of a hypothetical judge, but the correctness and legitimacy of the implementation of the measure. An order for arrest, a pre-trial order or an intervention in the immediacy of public order disorders, albeit legitimate, can be carried out in such ways - as an excess of violence or needless cruelty - to translate those measures, although legitimately arranged, into non-legitimate behavior by the operator of the Forces of Order. Perhaps these are limited cases, but I believe that a responsible legislator should explore all possible abstract hypotheses, as far as imagination, imagination and even past experience allow. In conclusion, in view of the critical issues that we have mentioned and that I hope the other branch of Parliament will want to take into consideration, but with the hope that by the end of this legislature, however, a text that introduces the crime of torture can be dismissed, I announce the favorable vote of the 5 Star Movement Group. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-824.ana.u23	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-824.ana.u24	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-824.ana.u25	MINEO (Misto-SI-SEL). Mr President, we have been fighting for the introduction of the crime of torture ever since, because there is in all international conventions and we cannot be macronists every other day and, if the reference is to that great movement that developed in France in the "century of the Lights," before, during and even after the French Revolution, then it must be recognized that torture exists, it is an own crime and, as such, it must be introduced into every order of a democratic and liberal country. I would like to say one thing on this point: does torture exist? Yeah, just read a novel or watch a movie to see it. Torture, for example, existed in the United States when waterboarding was used against terrorists: on that occasion the CIA did not say that this practice was an excess of precautionary measures or containment, but admitted it was torture, necessary because the terrorist was wanted to speak; this said the CIA. Torture, therefore, is and is a crime of its own. This morning, in the Chamber, Senator Giovanardi asked: there will also be torture, there is certainly when we see what has been done to Regeni: but what does torture have to do with Italy? When has there ever been torture in Italy? Senator Giovanardi, Mr. President, do you remember what happened in this country at the G8 in Genoa in 2001? Do you remember the international shame of those savagely pounded people in a barracks and a school that served as a shelter for those attending a demonstration? If that's not torture, what's torture? Do you want to introduce the principle that, so that we can actually talk about torture, the tortured must die? It's not like that. Most of the CIA tortured didn't die, but we know how they were reduced. Do you want me to give you another example? Have you seen the film, taken from John le Carré's book, "The mole"? In that movie, to the Russian prisoner - who of course takes revenge - the Americans put objects under their fingernails, causing permanent damage to their hands. And isn't this torture? Yeah, it's torture. Torture exists in our country and for this reason it is so important to introduce the crime into our legal system. Let us say, however, clearly that we have a law today that is something else than what we have consistently fought for. First of all, it denies that the crime of torture is a crime of its own. What does that mean? In fact, that derupts torture to an excess of action linked to legitimate actions, such as coercion of freedom or arrest of a person in flagrant crime. It's not like that. Torture is also when the public officer uses other methods: humiliates the person, hurts the person, wants to get things from the person or wants to punish him because he is different from him. In these cases there is torture and torture must be recognized as a crime of its own. But this is not only the limit of the law that you propose to us today. This majority, which consists of many souls (from Casson and Manconi to D'Ascola and Sacconi), has also introduced a series of rules for which in court it will be practically impossible to prove torture. It will be virtually impossible because every time the torturer's lawyers will be able to say that there was a need to use force. They will ask if the excess has been proven, if the psychic trauma has been proven; they will ask if they have broken a piece of the brain, if a piece of the brain has failed or what limbs have been cut off from the tortured. You realize that this is not worthy of a civilized country. The principle of repetition of the actions of the torturer, which had been denied by this House, has also been re-inserted surreptitiously. The "mouth of truth," dear President Gasparri, was just you: in your beautiful speech yesterday you said explicitly that you were against this measure but that you were so satisfied that now you could almost vote in his favour. Ladies and gentlemen, that is why the Italian Left will not vote in favour of the measure before us. Of course, I also read Romano Prodi: better to suck the bone than to suffer the stick. I saw what Trump's saying in America. He is saying that power is like this: power can make pastries with the Russians; power can order the FBI not to investigate its collaborators; power can silence the democratic press. Either you accept it or you have the barbarians on your way. But this logic, in our opinion, is the opposite of freedom, the opposite of transparency, the opposite of democracy. You don't save the country by always making compromises to the bottom: and these are compromises to the bottom. After so many years from the Geneva Convention we have a duty to bring to Italy a real law, that considers torture a crime of its own, that does not find loopholes, that does not bring chaos in the courtrooms and then blame the judges, when the fault is ours, of the legislator who moves in an ambiguous way. I shall conclude, Mr President, by saying something else that is good for the public to know. There are three voting possibilities. There is a possibility of voting in favour, of voting against and of abstaining. But since in the Senate abstention is equivalent to voting against, a certain media machine accused the Italian Left of abstaining and therefore voting against the establishment of the Committee of Inquiry into the banking phenomenon. We asked three years ago for a Commission of Inquiry into Monte dei Paschi and Banca Etruria. This Commission has been set up with a lot of ambiguity, so we will go to a media showcase - as the journalists also say - in which the various positions will confront each other without ever reaching the node and without ever saying who is really responsible for the bad bank. You see, this kind of thing starts with a fake news, that is, a misinformation. Abstention, when it is certain - and here it is absolutely certain - that the measure will pass, is the only way that a political group has to say that you have finally done it, but you have done it very badly and we want the public to know that you have done it very badly. [[Applause from the Mixed Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-824.ana.u26	We greet the teachers and students of the Istituto magistrale Statale (Gelasio Caetani) in Rome, who are attending the work from the forum of our Senate. Welcome. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-824.ana.u27	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-824.ana.u28	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-824.ana.u29	CALIENDO (FI-PdL XVII). Mr President, I would like to remind you that this law was voted in this House almost unanimously last year. Then the measure returned to the Senate after being modified by the House and, while in the Commission we had unanimously confirmed the text voted for the first time, an amendment was voted in the Assembly that changed the meaning of the law. You see, Senator Mineo, we have abandoned an argument that for years did not lead to the implementation of a law: there were those who wanted a crime of their own, those who did not want anything and those who wanted instead, as we did correctly, a common crime. What happened after the amendment? It has been months and the debate has continued, not in the Commission, because the measure has not been postponed to the Commission, but in the dialogue between the senators and between the political forces. I feel the need to thank Vice President Gasparri and Minister Finocchiaro, who have operated what is normally the function of the President of the Republic, that is, a moral persuasion on the ideas that have finally given rise to a text that can be shared. Why do I say that? Because, with the amendment accepted by the rapporteurs, which was born from that idea which I referred to, the vulnus resulting from the amendment voted in July last year was corrected. But there is still something more. Amendment 1,232 by Senator Di Maggio, accepted by the rapporteur and approved by the Assembly, has removed any doubt about the purpose of this law. For those who still have problems of identification, I would like to reiterate what is the thought of Forza Italia: a law on torture in our country is not necessary in relation to the activity of the police forces and in relation to the military of our country, because, even if someone has forgotten it, thank God, after the Constitution, in our country all the police forces can well say that live the values and principles of the Constitution, that cannot be questioned. That is why someone forgot that we voted, by a majority, on the amendment by Senator Di Maggio, which changed the meaning of the second paragraph. Amendment 1,232 of Senator Di Maggio, which has been approved, needs to be read: it specifies that the facts referred to in the first paragraph are committed by an official or a person in charge of a public service, with abuse of powers or in violation of duties inherent in the function or service of the public service. Which means that these are exceptional and residual facts, if they happen by chance. But there is no police culture in our country that can be represented by these words and, therefore, there is no possibility of misunderstanding. The draft law before us sets clear boundaries in relation to the crime of torture, as a common crime, and with the fact that it is committed by an official who violates his duties. But this did not happen. We have a history of police forces that is completely different. Certainly there is amendment 1,801 tabled by the rapporteurs, which clarifies that the preceding paragraph does not apply in the case of suffering resulting solely from the execution of legitimate private or limited rights measures. We had proposed a change, in the sense of adding the indication of further suffering, but it was not accepted. It is interpreted in the same way, as the rapporteur, Mr D'Ascola, said. For this reason, we must realise that this is a measure that has been purified of certain misunderstandings (I do not mean anything else), introduced by the Chamber of Deputies, and takes away from the interpreter any possibility of giving interpretations that do not conform to the will of the legislator. Our will is clear and I believe it must be identified according to our instructions. I conclude by saying that the Forza Italia Group will vote in favour of the bill. You see, Minister Finocchiaro, I thanked you, as I thanked President Gasparri, because you did not give us a precise indication, since our task is realized in the possibility of dialogue, confrontation and finding solutions that respond to the need to arrive at a law that is not misunderstanding and does not lend itself to unclear interpretations. That is why we are going to vote in favour of the measure, because in this further passage the text we voted at first reading has also been improved and that, therefore, today could record - I hope - a broad consensus, also from those who announced their vote against, since, if we voted in favour of the draft law at first reading, we must realize that the current discipline, as expected, has improved compared to the one voted by the Senate in March 2014. [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-824.ana.u30	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-824.ana.u31	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-824.ana.u32	Martini (PD). Mr President, the Group of the Party of European Socialists will vote in favour of this measure for a number of reasons which have been well explained by our colleagues who have spoken and which I try to sum up in three main points. First of all, we will vote in favour of it because it has been a measure that has been awaited for almost thirty years and an act that covers a considerable void of our legislation, as has been pointed out for a long time in all international fora. With this law our legislation is adapted, in the sign of human and personal rights and legal civilization. Other legislatures had tried, but they had failed. I believe that we should therefore say thanks to those who today allow us to proceed and fill this gap. In the debate there were also criticisms, sometimes harsh though not majoritarian, of the content of this law, of its alleged distance from the 1984 New York Convention and the 1987 Strasbourg Convention, and of the difference between other European laws on torture. It seems to me that the matter has been overemphasized. The texts of the various countries are all in some way different from each other and reflect the stories and the particular conditions of the countries, the cultural ones and the political ones. So far, however, the real difference between the laws and the texts was between who had the crime and who didn't and we didn't. Today we must emphasize the fact that we reach the bottom and fill a void and that getting to the bottom is even more important, for us at least, than the perfection of writing. Today we are taking a significant step, perhaps not total and definitive, even if significant, but that opens a positive path and gives new legal safeguards. Whoever in the future will have the most advanced conditions even in the sense of the civic spirit of the country, will go further, using the work done so far and will not rebuke us for being stuck on the stake. The second reason is that the text we are voting for, as others have said before me, is balanced, meditated and brings together the contributions of all positions. It therefore has its legislative and political quality and clearly introduces the crime of torture, reaffirming that the forecasts in our legislation were not sufficient. It is not a crime that can only be attributed to the Forces of Order, it is indicated as a common crime and is therefore not punitive to our agents, on the contrary, it wants to put them in a position to operate best and to strike abuses and deviations. It provides, instead, aggravating for the public functions and penalties that arrive until life. I would also like to stress the active role played by the Senate. Many times we complain about the fact that the Senate has not been able to fulfil its function to the full. Today we must say that this was not the case. Finally, last point, we are voting in favour because this decision gives Italy a more appropriate and defensible international position not only because we are avoiding institutional calls and censorship but also social and cultural ones. That's important, but that's not all there is. It is important because we are playing very difficult and delicate games on the world scene, see the case of Regeni or what happened in Dacca in July 2016, an event on which we are still working. 10:58 a.m. (Martini followed). We are engaged, together with other countries, in the field of human civil rights, in peaceful coexistence, in peace keeping operations and on new frontiers of individual and collective freedom. There is a prestige and a reputation to assert and to cure. The torture law will contribute to this. We therefore thank the rapporteurs and all those who have worked for a successful outcome of this bill: the Commission, its President and Minister Finocchiaro. The positive climate is also due to them and helps us to vote with greater conviction. [[Applause from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-824.ana.u33	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote in dissent from my Group.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-824.ana.u34	I take note of that and give you the floor.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-824.ana.u35	CASSON (Art. 1-MDP). Mr President, I would like to say that I will not be taking part in the vote on this ugly text on torture on the basis of the technical, political and social considerations I mentioned yesterday during the presentation and the vote on amendments and sub-amendments. It is a text that clearly violates the rules of international law approved and ratified over the years, from the fifties onwards, by the Italian State. This text, which I cared about and cared about in a special way, transforms the initial proposals. I myself, at the beginning of this parliamentary term, together with some 25 senators from various parliamentary groups, have presented a bill that complies with international law and in the past I have also dealt with this matter as rapporteur. This text is the result of a nasty, repeatedly downward compromise which has changed the content of the measure. Every time you come to this House, you always go down, and you get worse technically. The text under consideration is confused and, compared to the one approved by the House of Deputies, it will create difficulties of interpretation and, therefore, also of application. It is, of course, the result of a non-positive political choice. At this point, it would have been better to keep the text from the House of Deputies, which at least responded more correctly to the needs and indications of international conventions. Above all, it would have been better a text such as the one proposed in the initial drafts, i.e. not punitive. In fact, never wanted to intervene in a punitive way against the Forces of Order, the State Police, the Carabinieri and the Guardia di Finanza, because the men of our Forces of Order - those good, serious and correct - never needed to resort to violence. We have always worked together, respecting the laws and the person. A text was needed to intervene on the violent, on those who circumvent the law to obtain fraudulent statements. For this reason, I will not vote. [[Applause from the Misso-SI-SEL Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-824.ana.u36	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote in dissent from my Group.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-824.ana.u37	I take note of that and give you the floor.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-824.ana.u38	Gasparri (FI-PdL XVII). Mr President, I shall abstain from voting on the draft law under consideration. I would like to explain briefly the reasons for this, as it is a complex measure. Some colleagues say that if others on the left vote against it is proof that those who are not on the left should vote in favour. This is a reasoning and also proof that the provision has been modified. I said yesterday and I repeat today that sometimes the pauses of reflection are really such. The two amendments tabled by the rapporteurs, which introduced the case of the most conducted, create a filter in the application of the rule which, if and when it becomes a law of the State, will avoid rushed and superficial decisions. Therefore, the possible torture could occur with more conduct, but included within the norm, as also noted by Senator Palma and other colleagues, in order to make the evaluation and the possible application more selective. The rapporteurs also tabled another amendment, which was also approved with the support of the Forza Italia Group, which states that the legislation does not apply in the case of suffering resulting from the execution of legitimate private or limited rights measures (this is the case of those who are arrested or receiving measures due to the legitimate exercise of their roles). In addition, with the approval of the amendment tabled by Senator Di Maggio, statements were made concerning the public official or public service officer. So there have been some changes which - I would like to reiterate - we have all considered positive. I also claim the contribution made and indeed I thank Senator Caliendo for having recognized Minister Finocchiaro, myself and other senators for having followed a work of mediation (of course the subject was handled by the competent members of the Commission). There are, however, elements of the alleged psychic violence and the instrumental use made of the norm. The story of Giulio Regeni has just been mentioned, which represents a dramatic case of violence against an Italian who happened in Egypt, on which we want the truth. The reasoning therefore escapes and therefore my abstention is due to the fact that, like other colleagues, I am wary of the potential use that the rules under consideration can be made of the police forces. Some people are wary of police forces and say they need identification codes and this standard, written in a certain way. As I said yesterday, I am wary of distrust. Even if the norm were beautiful, timeo Danaos et dona ferentes. Frankly, I reject this gift, because I do not trust the application context. I have seen many judgments made against the police in media judgments. These are days when people rightly complain about the interceptions and the use of television. We, from these benches, have said so for decades while the others were silent. Now everyone discovers the guarantee. The guarantee also applies to the police. So I will abstain because I do not agree with the framework, although I note that, thanks to our positions, some changes have been made. However, I fear that tomorrow will apply these rules to those who, wearing a uniform, are fighting for safety and not for abuse or torture. [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-824.ana.u39	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote in dissent from my Group.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-824.ana.u40	I take note of that and give you the floor.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-824.ana.u41	Mr Manconi (PD). Madam President, Senators and Senators, on the first day of this legislature, on 15 March 2013, I filed a bill on torture. What has happened in recent years and what I think has been a twist in that original text, which echoed the deep sense of the punctual dispositions of all international conventions, prompts me today not to participate in the vote. I would ask the Presidency to allow me to deliver the written text of my speech. [[Applause from the Mixed Group and Senator Orellana.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-824.ana.u42	The Presidency shall authorise it accordingly. We shall therefore proceed to the vote. MARTELLI (M5S). We call for the vote to be taken by simultaneous ballot by electronic means. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of the bill as a whole, in the amended text. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). [[Applause from the PD Group and Senator D'Ascola.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-824.ana.u43	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-824.ana.u44	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-824.ana.u45	Mr Russo (PD). Madam President, as rapporteur for the draft law laying down provisions for the recognition of the Italian sign language, I would like to inform the House that the measure is not yet ready because it is awaiting the report of the 5th Commission, which in turn awaits the technical reports of the Ministries. We're on our way. I think we'll be ready for the afternoon. I therefore ask the Presidency to proceed with the next item on the agenda.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-824.ana.u46	Ladies and gentlemen, with reference to the precise agenda, moreover, that the Commission has not yet completed its examination of draft law No 2134 amending the Code of Anti-Mafia Laws. For this reason, the draft law No 580-B will be examined. If no comments are made, this remains the case.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-824.ana.u47	The next item is the debate on the draft law No 580-B, already approved by the Senate and amended by the House of Deputies. I would remind you that, under Rule 104 of the Rules of Procedure, only the amendments made by the House of Deputies will be the subject of discussion and deliberations, except for the final vote. The rapporteur, Senator Caliendo, asked for permission to carry out the oral report. No comments were made and the request was accepted. I therefore call the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-824.ana.u48	Madam President, the draft law we are examining, as you will recall, had been approved by the Senate on 22 January 2014 in a version that took into account what had been the criteria that the prosecutors of the Republic had indicated in order to proceed with the demolitions following final judgment. These criteria had been identified to ensure certain fundamental principles, one of which is the equality of citizens, so that there was no identification of different demolition criteria depending on the subjects and therefore what is normally defined as a specific interest. This gradation had also been contested and had caused contrast between some prosecutors and the general prosecutor. The Senate's intervention on the bill presented by Senator Falanga and other senators was modelled precisely on those criteria adopted by the prosecutors and the same listing corresponded to what had been indicated. This is not in order to give a consistent interpretation, but on the one hand to ensure that the Senate intervenes to solve an interpretative problem that had led to conflicts between the proxy offices and, on the other hand, to guarantee that legal certainty that is also our responsibility in order to avoid interpretative problems that may be such as to harm the principle of equality. The House of Deputies has decided to amend the text in part, in the sense that it introduced as the first criterion of killing property with a significant environmental impact. I have to say that today there is an article by Stella on the evening Corriere that honestly does not take into account the text voted by the Senate. It is said that, with reference to the text that we voted in the Senate, we would have referred to buildings which, due to structural conditions characteristics, construction methods, or for any other reason, constitute a danger already established for public utility; it is also added by Stella (I don't know who sent it to her) that if they are inhabited they cannot be killed. That's not the case, just read the text. At the same time I would also like to point out that we had the opinions of the competent Commissions, which also suggested that we return to the same diction of the Senate, in the sense of reversing the first two criteria as approved by the House, returning with this reversal to the Senate text. Why did we think in the Commission that such an operation was not appropriate? As we have said, the criteria identified by the House remain. I must also say that all the political groups have responded positively to my call for the withdrawal of the amendments and I hope that the same thing will be done in this House, because the purpose of this draft law is finally to ensure that people are finally settled and that they are assured that they are all treated in the same way. To do this, it is necessary for the law to come into force. We are talking about problems that are now four, five, six years old; in 2014 we had hoped to resolve the issue immediately, but in 2017 the law is not yet there. The measure will have to return to the House for a very fast passage, which will not allow you to make further changes. I have tabled two amendments on the basis of the remarks made by the Budget Commission in order to bring the text into line with the new reality: reference should no longer be made to 2016, but to 2017 and the 2017-2019 three-year period should be taken into account. These two amendments therefore do not decide on the law and, should the Senate confirm the indication of the Commission, it will have the double reading of Senate and Chamber. I would also like to recall the fact that the House has introduced a demolition fund and, at the same time, a national database of building abuse. I believe that these are two amendments to be shared: although they are added to what was voted by the Senate, I believe they can be shared by this House. I believe, Madam President, that it is indeed a worthwhile task if we - the advance already - more than an opinion on the amendments made an invitation to all the groups to withdraw the amendments and, if you like, to discuss them for the reasons I have just referred to. That being so, the reversal which was also indicated by the Commission in our branch of Parliament would lead to a delay of guilt in the Senate of the Republic, because it is a matter of resolving not the problem of abuse and demolition, but of guaranteeing to those who least have the possibility of feeling protected and having the same guarantees and rights as others, without any distinction due to the lack of attention to the same discipline of the law. That is why, Madam President, I call on all political forces to withdraw the amendments and, if possible, immediately to the vote. [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-824.ana.u49	I declare the general discussion open. Senator Lo Moro is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-824.ana.u50	Madam President, the measure we are evaluating this morning is very complex and introduces legislation which, only apparently, is flat and well prepared. In fact, it does not solve a problem first and does not address an issue which, among other things, the brief note of the Study Office has brought to the attention of the Commission and the Senate. In essence it does not loosen the node of the relationship between the administrative demolitions, those of the abusive artifacts that follow the administrative path, and the demolitions that instead follow another path, the judicial one. There is therefore a problem. It is true, most of the time, that when there is a building abuse, there is also an intervention of the judiciary, but it is not always so; however, an account is the demolition order issued by the offices of the municipality, and an account is the demolition order contained in a criminal sentence. This is not only because they are different subjects to arrange the demolition, but above all - I would say - because they are different subjects to have to demolish; and also because the demolition ordered by the judiciary can have a different course. It is useless to enter the substance, but, for example, a magistrate, in ordering the demolition of a building, can lay as a condition for the suspension of the penalty the demolition by a private person; therefore, can follow paths even economically completely differentiated. I was President of a Commission of Inquiry that dealt with the demolitions, especially because demolitions are often an occasion for threats and intimidation against local administrators, and we had put this issue to the attention of Parliament, also presenting a bill aimed at clarifying that, when there is a criminal sentence, demolition is the sole task of the execution judge. It is not a small matter, because very often our mayors are intimidated or identified as responsible for failure to demolish even though they have no competence and often, when they do, their work is then put to the attention of the administrative judiciary and, in some cases, they have reached judgements, until the Council of State, which have established that the mayor has acted badly because it was not within his competence. There is therefore a need for clarity. If there was a need in Italian legislation, it was not of new rules, but of an interpretative rule that made it clear that, when the judge issues a demolition order, execution is not the job of the mayor on duty, who must always be courageous (and that often he would not even have the money to carry out this act of courage that does not belong to him), but is the responsibility of the judiciary. On the other hand, the measure under consideration follows a different path. It is true that Article 1 deals with priorities and deals with them - I must say it now - in a more correct way in the text of the House than in the Senate text: it is not that the law can establish the priorities that the judiciary must follow, in this and in other tasks that are its own. The House's version does not set priorities, but calls for the judge's attention in the evaluation of certain criteria, which in themselves would be positively assessed. One cannot but agree that an artifact created by organized crime must be demolished before the artifact made by a common citizen or that it is necessary to demolish a artifact that constitutes a public danger, rather than a artifact that may be the subject of acquisition by the municipality. The point is that in this intervention of the legislator, in this draft law, which is also a parliamentary initiative, it is not clear what the final objective is. In fact, it is hidden and must be identified behind technical standards that, apparently, outline an optimal solution, except that the demolitions to be carried out on the territory concern thousands of buildings and if it is not that, apart from the task of the judiciary (which already does so in the various prosecutors) identify the criteria and priorities, in reality these priorities, so sanctioned by the legislator, have a single objective: to give guarantees, as the rapporteur candidly said, to the citizens who have on themselves or at home, the sword of Damocles of demolition, that the demolitions will never be done. This is not the task of the legislator; the legislator who decides that there should be no demolitions must have the courage - to which, I say it at once, we would not adhere - to make a building pardon, which is out of time and that I believe no one today hypothesizes. This is what I meant: not a disguised pardon, but a clear building pardon, assuming its responsibilities. The text, in fact, keeps in the way of misunderstandings. Article 1 provides in fact priorities and suggestions that seem to refer to the magistrate of the execution - even if the expression in the text of the Chamber is not present - but then, dealing with demolitions, according to the reading that also gave the Office Studies of the Senate, with a very well written note, would seem to be concerned with the so-called administrative demolitions. The task that the Senate, the legislator or, better, the colleagues who voted on this measure - which, moreover, from what we understand, has been largely voted on - is therefore to remove the mayors of the territory, apparently, by moving everything on the prefectures. If not, then, the prefectures must absolutely and urgently work on the basis of the indications that come from the municipal offices that, in very short and very close times, must make known which are the properties that can be acquired to the municipal heritage and which instead not. To see, the effect that is achieved is that, unless it can be assumed that the Municipalities carry out this activity in a generic and inconclusive way, the Municipalities are put in default, in the sense that they will have to provide for all possible acquisitions or decide not to provide, transmitting entire lists, which are obviously destined to remain so, the prefecture that instead should provide for the demolition. Another misunderstanding in this text concerns Article 3, which refers to the Fund for the demolition of illegal construction works. The fact that there was already legislation in this area which provided for a fund which had been equipped to assist the municipal coffers and which was entrusted to the Cassa Depositi e Prestiti was not taken into account. What is the relationship between these two Funds? And again, since the misunderstanding remains in the text, is it clear to everyone that only administrative bodies for administrative demolitions must use this Fund for demolitions? It is clear that it is not possible to assume that the Demolition Fund, as described in Article 3, may concern the enforcement court. If anything, that judge will be able to deal with justice funds. All this, however, is left to interpretation. In a text, which is so operational and goes into detail in detail, the misunderstandings remain on the table. In conclusion, we have also assessed and taken due account of the consensus that the text has had in the Commissions and we have been diligent in presenting agendas and amendments that have only one purpose: because we do not agree with the wording of the text, the amendments do not serve to modify a text that we share in order to make it acceptable, but they would serve - since the rapporteur has already said that he will call for the withdrawal of the amendments and possibly give an opinion against it - to dissolve the nodes that are on the table, with regard to the fund and with regard to relations, which remain unclear, not declared and not dissolved between competences and funds relating to administrative demolitions and between competences and funds relating to judicial executions. It is therefore a text which seems to be loose and well written. A text which, in essence, does not loosen the real problems that are on the table and which has only one objective in our eyes: to reassure those who have carried out abusive works that, even through these mechanisms, we will ensure that the abusive works remain so, remain in their readiness and, that is, that Parliament, rather than taking responsibility for proposing a pardon, that we would not vote under any circumstances, assumes the responsibility of establishing procedural procedures and priorities that lead to a disguised pardon and therefore also free of charge. A text, therefore, in itself, unacceptable. [[Applause from the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and ……]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-824.ana.u51	Senator Uras is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-824.ana.u52	Madam President, I would like to make a few comments from a point of view: when the problem arises of the demolition of abusive works, it means that the abuse has already been committed and therefore that the supervision of the territory that belongs to some authorities has failed, starting with the mayor of the city and the municipal administration to which that territory belongs. Otherwise, already at the start of every small building site abuse could be intervened with the suspension of the works and the restoration of the places in conditions much easier, because the places would still be compromised little and not in a massive way. Abuse can be traced back to three main categories, from my point of view: the abusiveness on the agro, which is imposing, because it is the projection of the city and the urban center on the neighboring countryside and almost always has the function of satisfying the living needs, through the exercise of the property of the own fund in an illegitimate way; the coastal abuse, where you intervene or modify existing artifacts or building new ones to meet needs not of a residential nature, but of another type, like the leisure and the vacation; finally, the urban abusivism that consists of small abuses, changes of existing properties without the necessary permissions, that often, however, endanger the stability of the property on which you intervene. These types of abuse have been practiced in a massive way in our territory and also concern the Region of Sardinia. Many situations have come to light in the news in recent years thanks to the initiative of local administrators or courageous magistrates. On this issue, that is, on the control of the territory to the contrast to the building abuse, developed that important chapter of the civicism that was defined as the attackers, that is those who defended the good of the most important national heritage, our natural beauty and our territory, with all its peculiarities, naturalistic and environmental. A good to defend, because it is on it that we mainly base our capacity for development: the Mediterranean territory, evocative and extraordinary on the level of beauty. At some point it was decided that this territory had to be defended and this we owe to the courage of administrators who paid even with their lives. I would remind my colleague Lo Moro of the chapter we opened when we promoted the work of the Commission of Inquiry into the phenomenon of intimidation against local administrators: abuse, i.e. illegal intervention on the territory, is one of the main chapters on which our local administrators pay a very expensive price, also in terms of their own safety and the possibility, for them and their family members, of carrying out a peaceful life. This measure does something that I believe makes sense, and that is why, to some extent, it must be defended: the introduction of intervention criteria for demolition. We are therefore talking about the phase in which abusing has already taken place. But, as we intervene on this stage, we must be careful, because the identification of the intervention criteria, which must be stringent, cannot make the hypothesis that the criteria serve because only some types of abuse or only some artifacts will be affected by the demolition measures. I say this, Mr President, Mr Undersecretary, because in the measure we are discussing there is a financial envelope, for our eight thousand Italian municipalities, to be allocated to the Ministry to supplement the small amounts allocated to intervene on demolition, which is ridiculous: EUR 5 million for 2016 and EUR 10 million until 2020. What are we talking about? But do we know the dimension of abuse for how it has perpetuated itself in these years and decades? Do we know how many millions of cubic meters we're talking about? Do we know how difficult it is then to recover the resources from those who should pay the costs of demolition and disposal of the rubble? The figures that must be put on this intervention must be different and much more substantial, if we are to restore our territory from this scourge. The other point is that it is not possible that, identified the priority criteria, everything that does not fall within the main priorities remains there and continues to disfigure the natural beauty of our territory. The judiciary in Sardinia has dealt with abuse on many occasions. And the Sardinian Region was also well involved, when it had a service dedicated to building supervision and, therefore, also to the control of the territory so that the phenomenon of abuse did not develop. Now this service no longer exists, unfortunately, and this is a serious defect because supervision is the first activity to be exercised. I remember the events of Tertenia, of the about 400 villas on the coast of Tertenia the subject of an intervention of the judiciary and an order of demolition. I remember the intervention of the army, the protest of the inhabitants, owners of those properties, the impediment, even physical, against the ruspe sent by the armed forces to demolish those abusive artifacts. I remember all this in order to say that this measure is right; it is right to establish priority criteria; it is right to identify financial allocations; it is right to draw attention to the tasks of the local authorities, the control of the territory and the action of demolition. It is right to identify ways of compensation to the public administration for the costs to be incurred for the demolition of abusive artifacts. All this is right, but the dimension with which we respond in this measure is not adequate. I think that goes in the right direction, however, but we must think that the financial resources must be more significant, that the local authorities must be strengthened in terms of the control and supervision of the territory, that the operation of reordering the Armed Forces - I say this to the Government - in the suppression of the State Forestry Corps and its allocation to the Carabinieri Arm should serve to improve, strengthen and qualify the intervention of environmental protection against environmental crimes. Abbusivism is in fact an environmental crime, it is a crime against the natural environment. I believe that all this should serve to improve, qualify and strengthen the control of the territory. I also say this for the Regions with a special statute, like ours, which has a forestry body of regional environmental supervision with competence and functions of both judicial police and public security within our territory. In these hours, again, it is engaged in the fight against environmental crimes, even serious, throughout the region. The coordination of the police forces and the forces of order around these issues must be a coordination in line with the choice that has been made, rationalization, by the Government, otherwise it would not have been justified the suppression of the forest body of the State. Therefore the coordination between the Forces of the order for this type of vigilance must be strengthened and the coordination between the municipal administrations competent for territory, the judiciary and the Forces of the order, so that this crime is not only prosecuted, but prevented and then for the demolition operations to be programmed and for there to be a multiannual plan, in each Region, that provides for the restoration of the places that have been compromised by the interventions of building abuse, especially of serious building abuse and that is exercised in areas of value, both in the agro and in the coasts of our Regions. This is a common heritage that must be safeguarded for the economic and social development of those regions and territories, which, especially in the Mezzogiorno, need to use the value and the environmental and naturalistic quality of their lands as an element of attraction for tourism purposes and for the qualification of their economic activity. Having said that, Madam President, I believe that the other aspect on which we must reflect, in the context of the adoption of this measure, is a close relationship between the interventions to combat building abuse and the activity that follows the demolition of the artifacts, that is, the restoration of the places and therefore also the removal of the rubble. There have been absolutely tragic examples. I remember an area of Sulcis, near Teulada, of great value, where we intervened to do the demolition and where the ruins of the demolished artifact were left there for years. The demolition aims to restore the original conditions of the place; therefore, the connection between the demolition act and the restoration of the original condition must also contain the immediate removal of the rubble. It cannot be the result of different times and different modes of intervention. To do this you have to put money and invest. Why is there an investment in countering abusing surveillance and demolition? Because the restoration of the places means bringing back to economic, environmental and naturalistic value that segment of the territory that has been compromised by the abusive artifacts. We must be careful about this: we must not allow the demolition phase to end with the demolition of the artifact leaving the rubble, abandoned there, to prevent the valorization of that territory, which must instead be safeguarded through an integral restoration of its value. In conclusion, Mr President, the measure we are examining has certain limits, the first of which is the financial envelope: we cannot think that EUR 10 million per year is sufficient for the extent of the abuse we want to combat and for the quality of the demolition and restoration of the environment and nature that we want to achieve.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-824.ana.u53	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-824.ana.u54	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-824.ana.u55	FALANGA (ALA-SCLP). Madam President, I would like to ask that the examination of the measure be suspended for about twenty minutes, because there is a problem, which has been raised by the Budget Commission, which refers to the allocation of the fund for the years 2016-2017-2018 and which would entail the need for an amendment that would shift that time span to the years 2018-2019-2020. I understand the reasons of the Budget Commission, but let me point out that there are precedents that have resolved this issue differently and have not determined the need to return to the other branch of Parliament. I would not like to see this, on the other hand, being essentially a formal amendment that could be adopted in a week, being exploited, using politics as an instrument of power or for the achievement of purposes other than the interests of the community, and leaving a number of people waiting for the measure. As has already been mentioned, in fact, and as shared by all, also by the 5 Star Movement, this is a measure that does justice, at least in the phase of the execution of the sentences. Therefore, since there is this problem, Mr President, I would ask you, please, to consider the possibility of giving me a 20-minute suspension to speak with the offices and to report the precedents which, in terms, have had different decisions, because I would desperately like to try, until the end, to dismiss this measure without the need for further steps which, although formal, could become substantial and determine the impasse of the measure.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-824.ana.u56	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-824.ana.u57	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-824.ana.u58	CASSON (Art. 1-MDP). Madam President, on the request made by Senator Falanga, I note that there is a rather critical report by the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Finance on the part concerning the financial situation. I think that, as far as the data are concerned, it is essential to provide for it by means of an amendment, I do not think it is possible to squirm something to get the text through. From a technical and financial point of view, an amendment is essential and the rapporteur, on the other hand, is always able to propose an appropriate text on this point.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-824.ana.u59	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-824.ana.u60	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-824.ana.u61	FALANGA (ALA-SCLP). Madam President, allow me: Senator Casson, I have asked for 20 minutes to confront you in a place other than this. Why intervene as you intervened? I have asked for the opportunity to confront those who believe that this issue can only be resolved by an amendment amending the text. Now, if I am not given this opportunity, I thank and take note, but I come to conclusions to which - alas - I would never have wished to reach.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-824.ana.u62	Senator Falanga, I would like to add a point from a logistical point of view: there are still some members to speak before concluding the general discussion, so the time to make the assessments you will want to make will be there after the end of the session, scheduled for 13 o'clock.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-824.ana.u63	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-824.ana.u64	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-824.ana.u65	CALIENDO, rapporteur. Madam President, you told me: I really wanted to say that we should end the general debate, have the amendments withdrawn and then have time to speak.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-824.ana.u66	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-824.ana.u67	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-824.ana.u68	TONINI (PD). Madam President, as I have also had the opportunity to say to Mr Falanga on the short lines, it is clear that this is a technical adjustment, but it is impossible to introduce a rule with a cover now exceeded because the 2016 coverage, having passed the year 2016, makes no sense anymore. After that, I turn to the Presidency as regards the possibility of experimenting with different ways that are not those of an amendment amending the law, which certainly involves, as Senator Falanga has quite understandably complained, the return to the House of the bill only for this aspect. If other roads were possible, there would be no obstacle on my part and, I believe, on the 5th Commission. However, it does not appear to me that other roads are possible. On this, of course, I return to the Presidency.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-824.ana.u69	Having concluded this parenthesis, let us resume the general discussion. Senator Nugnes is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-824.ana.u70	Madam President, we must first focus on what is abuse. I am a bell and I know very well what abusing has meant: these are problems clearly related to the environment, the landscape and hydrogeological risks. But we do not realize the political instrument that has meant, in unholy years, building abuse: it was a lever of corruption and illicit bargaining between the political part and those who needed to carry out on their territory. We have many municipalities and entire territories without regulatory plans and without implementation plans. Abbusivism has become for many a way of proceeding, but this has been the blackmail of a bad, very bad policy that on it has profited, has grown and is enriched, a policy in connection with evil and camorra. And when I speak of Camorra or Mafia, I am not referring to territorial episodes or that derive from a single territory, but to the camorristic and mafia attitude that affects so many, indeed all political and institutional levels. Therefore, we must be absolutely rigorous with regard to the issue of killings. When we first examined the measure in the Chamber, I declared myself opposed to shortcuts or loopholes, because we continue to see, in this bill, a way of creating loopholes and shortcuts; coming out of this Chamber, at the bar, someone put his hand on my shoulder and said to me: you just played the rebuttal. Previously, during the election campaign for the general elections in 2013, I was asked what we thought of the killings, which, I repeat, in Campania are a serious, heavy and substantial problem, which also affects so many difficulties. I replied that we were for the destructions and that we were against any abuse and anything that went against the environment and security, and above all, that he was in the shoes of evil, because behind the building abuse there are so many other abuses: from the abuse of the use of quarries to that of transport, to the abuse of landfills. Behind the abuse there is a whole world. Even then I was told that in the election campaign I shouldn't have told the truth that I should have lied. My group and I believe that we must tell the truth, without ignoring the real difficulties of those who have found a solution in building abuse, where they were given no other solution. Still, it's not okay. As an architect I lived three building condones, which meant continuous abusive reconstructions in the nighttime. We must put a definitive stop and a tombstone to this phenomenon. Although they have been slightly modified in the transition to the Chamber of Deputies, we do not like the priority criteria set out in the provision. First of all because they are pleonastic, because the prosecutor already operates according to priority assessments and above all because they will give rise to appeals. Is that the end? When certain priority criteria are laid down by law, when there is a list and when these downfalls take place, does it seem plausible to you that there are no appeals to appoint others who have not been killed before? And even if this does not correspond to the truth, will it not be enough to block the proceedings and clog the courts? I think so. If we want to enter into the substance of the measure, as regards the criteria for the execution of the demolition order, the properties in the availability of persons convicted for the offences referred to in Article 416-bis of the Criminal Code are in third place. At the first are the buildings that deface the landscape, certainly; then those that put safety at risk. I had proposed, with an amendment, at least a move forward of the buildings that create danger: who knows why I was told no. Therefore, buildings which, for whatever reason, constitute a danger to public or private safety, in the context of coordination, are in second place. Imagine if I am not for the protection of the landscape: I am first of all; but compared to giving priority to the safety of citizens or to demolish the properties of subjects condemned for 416-bis, perhaps the landscape could also wait. Of course, the House, thanks to amendments of the 5 Star Movement, has been introduced the fund which, however, has been rightly said, is insufficient. Moreover, Mr Falanga said that it covers only the 2016-2017 annuals. FALANGA (ALA-SCLP). I'm not honorable. NUGNES (M5S). Why, what did I say? FALANGA (ALA-SCLP). He called me honorable. NUGNES (M5S). Senator, the illustrious Senator Falanga. I was saying that the fund is insufficient and yet necessary, because we know the difficulties that mayors have to deal with; difficulties of all kinds, because the first institution in contact with citizens is dealing with the real problem, the one that beats, the one that weeps, the one that cries in the face of the demolition of a house that is defined as necessity and does not even have the funds. We are convinced that a serious measure, which went in the direction of solving the problem, needed and would have worked with pleasure on such a measure, but that is not the case. Then there is the national database of building abuse, a good thing that we also find right, but not enough to defuse the danger of a judicial lever. As regards the problem of the destructions that generate rubble that have to be recovered (but also lack the facilities of recovery) or carried to landfill, as is quite often the case, I have tabled some agendas, which were originally amendments. On this subject we already have the decree of the President of the Republic n. 380 of 2001, which in paragraph 3 of Article 31 says that the first act, before the killing, is the acquisition to the public interest. Here, I would like this acquisition to result, together with the database, in the possibility of assessing which killings are not closely connected with the safety of citizens or with landscape protection, of acquiring them to the public heritage and of entering them into the rankings provided for the social housing assignment lists. This could have been a different vision because, on the one hand, many territories need to assign houses, so with a difficulty of containing the consumption of the soil, on the other, we have to break down many, which are abusive. Those that are not structurally problematic, that are not on unsuitable terrain, so all those structures that do not endanger the safety of citizens and do not degrade the landscape could be included in this list. If the occupier is able to demonstrate that he has an absolute need, perhaps one might even think of giving him the property in concession, only for his part, for the time of his poverty, even as a priority. However, it would have been a measure on which to think together and to work out for a real project. We do not agree with this text at all. [[Applause from the M5S Group and Senator Puppato]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-824.ana.u71	Senator Cardiello is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-824.ana.u72	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, the Group of the European Forza Italia, in favour of this measure, is content with what we have been able to do. We would have liked to have done more for the citizens of Campania, my dear colleague, Mr Nugnes, as a due act towards the many and many citizens who have not built on a state property or in the restricted areas, but on land of their own property, where there were no constraints; however, because bureaucracy and politics had not provided for the adoption of regulatory plans, today those citizens, who had built a roof for necessity, find themselves having to tear down the homes of their families. That it is a real problem in Campania we all know, but perhaps my colleague Nugnes escapes that the only Region that did not take advantage of the pardon, unlike the others was Campania, so much so that Governor De Luca (who does not belong to my political force) a few weeks ago said that in Campania there is need to clarify the abusivism. The measure we are debating is attenuating the problem and does not solve it and we, ladies and gentlemen, Madam President, who live daily in the courtrooms the problem of abuse, abuse by necessity, we see it every day. It is not a problem of camorra, it is a matter of healing the homes where some citizens live with their families. We are opposed to healing the works of Camorra, we have been in the past and we are also today. He escapes his colleague Nugnes who was approved a few weeks ago in the Campania Region and is in the process of defining a proposal with which the building abuses, the houses acquired, are given to the families so as not to evict them. This means that in Campania there is a problem that is not solved by the demolitions of homes of necessity, but by the demolitions of hotels and villas of the Camorristi [[Comments of Senator Nugnes]] We agree on that. You can't accuse us of things that don't belong to us. Perhaps it escapes my colleague Nugnes that in the areas of competence of the Public Prosecutor of Salerno the houses are still demolished despite being acquired. Evidently this escapes. NUGNES (M5S). President, this is the third time you've appointed me. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I can't hear anything, Senator Nugnes. CARDIELLO (FI-PdL XVII). The real problem exists and exists. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. When the colleague finishes speaking, I give you the floor. Montevecchi (M5S). Is she deaf? PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I don't understand. I can't hear what he's saying. CARDIELLO (FI-PdL XVII). I am obviously telling the truth, Madam President. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator, I'll give you the floor right after. MARTELLI (M5S). You must address the Presidency, not your colleague. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator Cardiello, speak to the presidency. CARDIELLO (FI-PdL XVII). Yes, Madam President, I apologise to Mr Nugnes, who is right, because I do not have to address you. [[Comments of Senator Nugnes.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-824.ana.u73	Colleagues, let's move on.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-824.ana.u74	[[Senator Chiti's comments.]] CARDIELLO (FI-PdL XVII). Madam President, as I was telling you, there are prosecutors in Italy, like Salerno's, who have demolished a property that belonged to a family of four, so I ask myself: why does one prosecutor act in one way and another prosecutor does in another? This is what Senator Falanga wanted to do: to give an order of priority, to give meaning to the killings, because every prosecutor in Italy acts as he wants. I'll give you an example. In Altomonte, Calabria, in front of the castle there is a multi-storey hotel that has been demolished for twenty-two years. Houses of necessity are being demolished, but an eco-monster that is twenty-two years old is not being shot down. So I wonder why Salerno's attorney demolished the homes of necessity while Castrovillari's attorney didn't knock down a 22-year-old eco-monster. It's a due act. Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats is satisfied, albeit in part, with this measure. [[Comments of Senator Nugnes. Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-824.ana.u75	He's enlisted to speak Senator Mineo. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-824.ana.u76	Madam President, let us not make speeches that then leave the time they find. Unfortunately, abusing is widespread in our country and creates problems with which the legislator must intervene sooner or later. In particular, I was made aware by the journal "Bioarchitecture" of what happens with the abusing in fact in areas subject to great calamities, therefore earthquakes, big landslides and so on. The disturbing aspect is that there are many Italian citizens who have asked for pardon. I, like Senator Nugnes, am against the condones, but there have been many. There is also the phenomenon of so many people who have requested forgiveness, but have not received an answer. In the event of an earthquake, how do you behave from this point of view? It's a completely illegitimate building, so the state isn't interested in the consequences of the earthquake in that place? Does the State deny to any inhabitants any kind of cover, assistance or interlocation? Or who did he see, and who did he give? Since there was a natural disaster, does what was illegal yesterday become legal today? It's no small matter. Working modestly on this issue with a group of architects of the magazine .Bioarchitecture, we had thought of a draft law that focused all on the extension and the obligatoryness of the file of the building, that is an instrument that tells us everything about an artifact: when it was built, how it was built, what its hydrogeological impact, what is its energy impact, what are the dangers it entails and, consequently, what are the measures to be taken to avoid more serious problems. The co-responsibility of the author in the file of the building has as counterpart the possibility that the State unblocks this area of nobody, i.e. distinguishes between those buildings that cannot remain standing, and that therefore must be destroyed, from the buildings that instead, if an active remedy - as was said once - can remain in their place. That was the approach of a proposal for a law, which I tabled. During this debate, I was allowed to table two amendments which take up this red thread, because instead - the Senators Nugnes and Lo Moro are right - this measure is one of the usual pieces of color that allow the clever to continue to be smart. The criteria for the dismantling of buildings are so general that they cause a sea of appeals in court. Don't complain if justice doesn't work: justice doesn't work because bad politics makes it impossible to operate. But that's not all there is. There are abuses, to put it plainly, of the mafia, 'ndrangheta and camorra that end up in the queue of priorities: in fact those buildings will never be demolished. See that when you do this little favor to the mafia, to the 'ndrangheta and to the camorra, saying that maybe there is a family there that needs it, in fact you grow the grip of these mafia organizations on that part of the Italian people that needs it most. It is absolutely evident, in fact, that if the mobster realizes a completely illegal artifact, in contempt of every rule, and gives it to a person who occupies it, then it is that person who must be safeguarded; but safeguarding that person is safeguarding the business of camorra. We talked about Calabria and I would like to talk about my Sicily: next to Palermo there is an entire hill, beautiful, which is part of the panorama, which is completely destroyed by abusive constructions in series. Do you think that's an abuse of necessity? The people who occupy him could say that they need the house, but in reality it is not so: it is a beautiful and good mafia operation, it is the poisoned tail of the Palermo sack, which, like that of Naples and not only, has characterized a period of our history. I am absolutely against the measure. I would point out to the attention of the Senate - if ever we wanted to have a shot - that knowledge is the only guarantee that the rule of law has to avoid ending up in a cul-de-sac: knowledge, the building file, knowing how it works to distinguish, to be able to legislate and decide with intelligence, instead of doing favors for too many smart people. I am absolutely opposed to the logic of the measure, just as it has come to this House and I will propose my amendments anyway. Then there is the question posed by Senators Falanga and Casson: there is already no cover. So, what are we talking about? A color piece that doesn't work because it's already chucked. [[Applause from the Misso-SI-SEL Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-824.ana.u77	Senator D'Anna is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-824.ana.u78	Madam President, I do not go into the substance of the matter which, in fact, is stale: we have been hearing about it for at least ten years. I intervene, instead, asking the attention of the Government, on a circumstance that concerns my Region, Campania, that compared to all the other Regions of Italy has been defrauded - and I repeat the term: defrauded - of the benefits of the pardon of the Berlusconi law. I remind myself and the bystanders that the then governor of the Campania Region, Antonio Bassolino, imposed the Berlusconi law and those who had to heal under the empire of the regional law that wanted Bassolino himself paid charges with a double cost compared to the other Regions, with half of the cubes to be healed. I therefore ask, for the 6 million citizens of Campania or, better, for those who are in those conditions, why they must continue to be children of a minor god, so have to pay double to heal half of the volume of abuse. You must answer, because you are Parliament, you cannot delegate to others. I remember it's not just a southern fact. The last pardon was obtained by Emilia-Romagna, in the general silence of the vestals and moralists to clams, that every time there is something about Campania or the South of Italy loudly raise their voice. They must have distracted themselves in Emilia-Romagna. We should then talk about the type of abuse. On the one hand, we are asking for the usual rigour and, on the other hand, we would like to come to the rescue of abuse of necessity. We should work this out. We should, as always, agree to understand if there is an elastic morale, that of the half virgins, that for which morale is a perspective issue; if the abuses of the two pools of Beppe Grillo in the residential area of Genoa are valid, if they are worth the sixteen abuses condoned by the son of Dario Fo, if they are worth the abusive terraces of Michele Santoro. There's a lot of casework. Yet they condoned them. But speaking of pardon today was not possible; with the earthquake in Emilia-Romagna we did it, but we cannot do it. In the Pozzuoli area and in the Flegrea area we have to rely once again on bradisism. In fact, I believe that bradisism can solve the problem because it swallows up abusive houses and we are in God's grace. I would remind you that to remove all abusive houses it would take EUR 1 billion and not EUR 10 million that the Budget Commission is busy moving from one year to the next. You, the epigons of environmentalism, should then explain to me in which dump you would go to put the material of results consisting of tens of thousands of cubic meters. Do you turn Capri and Ischia into open-air landfills? Or do we want to bring him here, to Piazza Montecitorio, in front of Palazzo Chigi? These are the problems that we have to face and we must not do so with cheap moralism which is worth depending on the longitude and the regions in which the pardon was used and abused. I've only mentioned a few names of famous personalities, but I can do another 30. The problem therefore is that with the provision to our examination nothing is saved, because it is another grip for the backdrops for the poor people who had to do the abuse of necessity. All we do is tell the magistrate the timing to use, with the typically Italian cunning (Casson is right), but we must reason before we arrive at the application of that sentence. Why didn't Parliament vote on a law that allowed the mayors who didn't approve the regulatory plans to lapse? Shall we find out now? I would like to tell you my own story: I was a guest of a friend in Salina, where I was pleased to hear that several Members of this House, who go for the most, had villas in which as soon as they came out of the door they were standing with their feet in the water. One might say that at the time there was no so-called Galasso law, but I believe that morality is not a child of the times. You go and take down a bathroom and a bedroom of a family house, which are used by your son because he does not have the opportunity to go elsewhere and rent a house, and you dive, beautiful, peaceful and morally refreshed, into the white and clear waters of the Aeolian Islands. If we want to reason, we must do so on this; we must reason that the citizens have abused, but they have done so by state of necessity and we will not save those houses either because, from cunning Italians as we are, we are only drafting a law, but the killings can never be done, except for the poor fools who run after us. I remember in fact that money and landfills are not there and that we were not able to make pardon in Campania. We have defrauded millions of people of the possibility of healing abuses that have been cured in other regions. I wonder, then, if you want to reason on this and you are in good faith - which I very much doubt since I have been in this House - if you do not just want to exploit this issue and be environmental defenders. I went to Grosseto and saw, for example, that beautiful chimney where coal-fired power is produced by Lord De Benedetti, Card No. 1 of the PD; I saw abuses in Capalbio and Garfagnana, but there are the maître à penser and the intelligentsias, who do not commit abuse, but they probably drown those walls of their science and their wisdom. Be interested in the poor people, you will do half of your duty! [[Applause from the ALA-SCCLP Group. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-824.ana.u79	Senator Cappelletti is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-824.ana.u80	Madam President, this is a badly born measure, very bad, because, as we all remember, it was born as a disguised pardon: it transferred the responsibility to establish the criteria on the downfalls at the head of the prefect, who therefore had to take judgments already passed in court, on the contrary, executive acts, and evaluate them again, exposing himself to the possibility of seeing any of his decisions challenged before the regional administrative court. With this system any possibility of any killing in our country would have been blocked: this was evidently the draft of the signatories to the bill. In the meantime, however, it has been a long time, the text has changed a lot and perhaps does not even look like the initial one; it has also improved a lot, it has to be said. The last text that we are going to discuss, for example, reduces the number of these criteria, which go from eleven to three. We, gentlemen - and I say this so that it may remain in the report - made this proposal at first reading, but it was rejected. I now take note of the fact that the majority converge on this hypothesis: if you had listened to us at first reading, perhaps we would have spared a year or even more. Another positive element has also been introduced to the House: there is no longer any mention of peremptive priority criteria, but the expression "appropriate consideration" is introduced. There are, however, many doubts. A law that does not establish discipline, but advises it, what is the use of it? Why are we doing this? The criteria are already there and the representatives of the prosecutors who came to the Senate and the House have detailed it extensively: the prosecutors are already following within them a list of criteria. The CSM has already intervened against all the prosecutors of Italy tout court, providing however criteria, that therefore exist. But then, if there are already, why do we intervene again? Perhaps it can help us to quickly reread the hearings of prosecutors who have come to Parliament to express their views. Well, these prosecutors were intervening on a text prior to the current one, but their comments, in the vast majority, are essentially representative as criticisms of the current measure, which leaves us perplexed, I repeat. All audit prosecutors, among other things, would have preferred the criteria to be the sole responsibility of the prosecutors, as criteria for internal organisation, not therefore as a regulatory act. I'll quote them quickly. Franco Ionta, Deputy Prosecutor of the Republic at the Court of Rome: The point that is made is that, instead of facilitating and simplifying the felling procedure, setting the priority criteria that have been mentioned, it becomes even more complicated. In fact, in fact, here the prosecutor is asked for some sort of supplementary investigation activity in a final judgment already issued... In essence, at first instance, it would require the body of executions - at an improper stage because it is the one that should be merely executive - to reopen the investigations, verifying also the important environmental impact of the building that is being demolished. Luigi Riello, Attorney General at the Court of Appeal of Naples argues first of all that our criteria are internal and tendential. Where there was a regulatory measure - which refers to situations that postulate a finding - we would risk having the opposite effect compared to what we want to determine. In fact, we would have both a slowing down of the procedure and a difficulty in identifying, especially with regard to the categories covered by the priority criteria, with a proliferation of execution incidents because in this case it would no longer be a violation of an internal criterion, but a violation of the law. Ugo Ricciardi, deputy prosecutor at the Court of Appeal of Naples asks: In effect, what need would there be to enact a new law on demolitions at national level?In view - I add - that priority orders are already in place. Leonida Primicerio, Attorney General at the Court of Appeal of Salerno: "Until the priority criteria are set by some prosecutors of the Republic as a measure that has only an internal organizational nature, well come. When, on the other hand, they are laid down by law, I believe that we are in a profile of a strong doubt of constitutionality. (...) The demolition order is a sanction to all intents and purposes. It is as if today the legislator wanted to tell me that I, after several criminal proceedings that have affirmed the responsibility of the accused, can arrest one, but not the other, or one before and the other after. And it goes on: In fact, we would find ourselves faced with an increase in the execution accidents by the sentenced person (...) who resorts, precisely, to see whether we have met the criteria or not. In essence, there would be an increase in litigation. Nunzio Fragliasso, assistant prosecutor at the Public Prosecutor of the Republic of the court of Naples, states that priority criteria by law would result in a constraint, a further burden, with the risk of paralysing the activity of the prosecutors of the Republic. He then declared: Second, this regulatory structure could result in a paralysis of the demolitions, because already now with the internal criteria we are submerged and subjected to execution accidents that the judges of the execution reject because they say that there is no violation of a rule of law because it is an internal criterion to the prosecutions, but, when the criteria are codified, the execution incidents will multiply. Roberto Rossi, deputy attorney at Bari's anti-mafia district attorney, argues that, while the priority criteria of the prosecutors are internal, the priority criteria as well as built could have a procedural relevance, and therefore open an infinite dispute that can have and that will certainly have, if so approved, negative effects. In addition, a further fact is that the proliferation of judicial proceedings will almost inevitably lead to a blockade of executions. Ennio Cillo, deputy attorney general at the General Prosecutor of the Court of Appeal of Lecce says: "You will have the perception that this system constitutes a viable escapism, we will have the paralysis of all this virtuous work to which we have been working for more than ten years." In short, unanimously the audit prosecutors express on this measure of the criticalities that seem reasonably insurmountable. It is true that there are some positive elements introduced by this measure. Let's think about the demolition fund; let's think about the destruction database. It is true, as has been pointed out, that ten million euros a year to finance this fund are few. We ourselves hope that this fund can be increased in some way, and we have also tabled agendas that go in this direction. A budget of EUR 10 million is too low and makes it possible to make 130 or 140 cuts per year. With the adoption of the agendas that have been deposited, the Government will also give an authentic interpretation of what I am saying right now. It must be borne in mind that this rotation fund is to be added and does not replace the current system of financing by the municipalities in order to finance the reduction activity; and that this rotation fund will therefore be further and automatically refinanced. This is clearly positive. However, how can we be sure that this rule cannot become an instrument in the hands of crime, that, according to the criteria of necessity provided by law, it can create abusive houses in contempt of the law itself, putting someone who lives in it? In this way, of course, the last buildings to be demolished, no matter where they were built, and, given the number of buildings to be demolished and the limited number of destructions to be made in a year, would be basically maintained sine die. This is a question that we leave to all our colleagues; it is a critical issue of this measure which I think we should consider for a moment. Why, on the contrary, are we not discussing more stringent rules in this House to demolish abuses in the bud and to commissary those municipalities that are not strict in enforcing the law? It seems that, once again, we are closing our eyes to the problem of abuse. We needed a very different measure to counter this phenomenon, which is all Italian. Well, Madam President, we will do that and we will soon, very soon, as soon as we are in the government of the country. [[Applause from the M5S Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-824.ana.u81	He's enlisted to speak Senator Falanga. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-824.ana.u82	Madam President, I listened carefully to the excellent speech by Senator D'Anna, a passionate speech, and I listened immediately after the speech by Senator Cappelletti, who reported and reported the statements of some prosecutors in the Republic. It does not stimulate me, for the truth, to respond to Senator Cappelletti; I would like to respond more to the criticisms of those directly concerned, that is to say to the prosecutors of the Republic cited by Senator Cappelletti. It is not true that it is wrong to foresee that, having two measures to be carried out, two sentences of sentence to prison sentence, the prosecutor of the Republic cannot decide to arrest first Guy and then Caius. It is not true, because in the prosecutors of the Republic, in the execution office, the sentences that provide for a sentence of more than three years of detention are immediately carried out; instead, when the prison sentence to be served is less than three years, the prosecutors usually send the execution notice to allow the sentenced person to make any alternative application for measure. So it is false to imagine and report in this House that this measure would be incorrect, because it is not possible to foresee a different criterion than the chronological one. The chronological criterion is not adopted for sentences condemning prison sentences, so I wonder where the scandal is if, even for judgments that provide for the demolition of an abusive artifact, there can be a different criterion from the chronological one. Moreover, in what rule of our order is it written that sentences of condemnation should be carried out on the basis of the chronological criterion? There is no regulatory provision. All this is entrusted to the discretion of those who have the responsibility: general prosecutor and prosecutor of the Republic. On the substance of the measure, I imagined that I would do justice at the stage of the execution of the judgments, at least at that stage. They must tell me, in fact, where Cappelletti were and others, critics and writers (the representative of the Greens also moved), when in Italy a law was passed that provided for the forgiveness of building abuses and immediately the Campania Region, with Governor Bassolino, passed a regional law that excluded the applicability of a national norm on the territory of Campania? It was obviously an unconstitutional rule and Bassolino certainly knew it and those who in the Regional Assembly approved this law knew it; certainly the offices of the Campania Region and the legal office knew it. In short, everyone knew it; yet that law was approved. Obviously the Constitutional Court immediately declared its unconstitutionality, after for the bell towers had expired the term to benefit from the pardon, when for all the Italians of the other Regions this pardon had been granted. The number, evidently full-bodied, of the improperly built buildings in Campania is also determined by this circumstance, not negligible, because when we talk about the number of the abusive properties in Veneto, Lazio or Lombardy, it is clear that from this number all those abuses that, by effect of the law of 2004, have been condoned. Therefore, it is clear that in Campania there has been an accumulation of improperly built buildings, while in the other regions these had already been condoned. Where was Cappelletti, where were those who criticized this measure, when the Italian Parliament passed a law, in order to please the caste of the notaries, which allowed the transfer of the real estate, even if improperly realized, provided that an application for pardon had been submitted and two instalments of charges had been paid? It is a law, yes, unjust, which runs counter to the basic norms of law. A contract that has an illegal object, since Roman times, is a zero contract. Well, with a law the Italian State and Parliament said that that contract with an illegal object could be entered into regularly before the notary. Imagine, gentlemen, the worker, the farmer or the bricklayer, lacking adequate scientific instruments, who goes to the notary to buy a house and pays, perhaps with a mortgage, because the "notaro" has guaranteed that that act is legitimate and is correct, and he goes home with what is called the "instrument" under his arms in Naples, convinced that he has bought the house legitimately. Well, this gentleman didn't commit any abuse, he didn't violate the law, but he legitimately bought the house of his home. Of course, the speculators didn't do it. Who did? The housewife or the worker did it. And today, because the conditions laid down in the norm were lacking - I refer to Law No. 47 of 1985 - we say to this gentleman who bought the house from the notary, paying with a mortgage, that the house is abusive and that it will be demolished. Where are we? Are we in a country with established and consolidated legal civilization? I'm afraid not, I don't think so. Oppositions were to be there when such a rule was passed that was pleasing to the caste of notaries because they did many acts of transfer of property to the detriment of the poor people. [[Comments of Senator Nugnes.]] Predicting priority criteria means making sure that the building speculator is immediately executed the sentence condemning the demolition, means predicting that the camorrist who built a house probably with proceeds of an illegal nature will see his property demolished. As I said yesterday to Bonelli dei Verdi, I do not say that the house of Gennaro Esposito, a mason, should not be demolished, but at least we must give him the opportunity to reflect and find a solution and not to live a condition of injustice by seeing the houses of which D'Anna spoke standing on the coast and his downfall by the ruspes. This is the meaning of the measure: it is not a building pardon, it does not mean affirming and legalizing abuse. Moreover, since there are so many differences between the bell towers and the citizens of other regions [[Comments of Senator Nugnes]] , I recall that in Campania there is a rule in force, the so-called Galasso law, which was to be a transitional rule, launched in 1980. Transitional means that it must have lived for a certain short period to the occurrence of certain activities of public administrations. Well, there have been no such activities and that law is still in force and it is a law that fills with constraints: if you want to open a window in a dark toilet of a house on the outskirts of Agro Nocerino the Superintendence can say that you cannot do it. [[Comments of Senator Nugnes]] Mr President, I do not appreciate this, since I never speak when others speak, please do not let me be interrupted by those who are not entitled to do so. NUGNES (M5S). Excuse me. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator Nugnes apologized. Go ahead, Senator Falanga. FALANGA (ALA-SCLP). Where were those who opposed this measure when laws were made in this House and in the Campania Region to the detriment of the poor people? A fund has now been set up. Senator Caliendo, rapporteur, who has passionately supported the measure and to whom I naturally express my appreciation and my thanks, was faced with an accounting data, that is to say that the House approved an appropriation for the years 2016, 2017 and 2018, which requires a change that is purely technical, namely the elimination of 2016 to leave 2017 and 2018 and the addition of 2019. I'm traveling all over the office, with the understandable understanding (allow me to play the word game) by those who listened to me, to find a solution. In fact, I fear that even for such an insignificant correction (just a stamp) the measure will no longer be able to be modified once fired from us, (we are at second reading). There is only the need for this formal amendment to remove the reference to the 2016 budget and to include the reference to the 2017 financial statements, 2018 and 2019. How long will they be doing it in the House of Deputies? The amendment may be made in twenty days, including in the deliberating session of the Justice Commission. Will they? If they do not, then it means that they use a stick to achieve goals that they cannot achieve by official means, through the debate in the Senate and Chamber of Deputies' classrooms. I don't find myself in this context and in this culture. I'm an honest lawyer, I've never made legal law a convenience store, and I can't bear it if you're dealing with the convenience of a legal trick. I said that I am leaving the Senate, probably to the satisfaction of Senator Nugnes and the other colleagues of the 5 Star Movement, who I invite to vote in favour of my resignation. I'm leaving this Senate because I don't want to be in this environment. I do not want to be with Members of Parliament who use a quirk to prevent the adoption of a fair rule that does justice to my people in Campania. 20 days from today. Once approved, the measure returns to the Chamber of Deputies; I repeat, it takes twenty days. If the measure is not scheduled in twenty days' time (I will check the dates), Madam President, the letter of my resignation will be presented to you and I will invite my colleagues from the 5 Star Movement not to reject and accept them, because in my place someone will probably come - I don't know who - that on these aspects and for this verse may perhaps turn a blind eye. I don't want to close my eyes, either one or both. Having therefore not been able to give a minimum of response to the people of my territory, I leave, because it makes no sense to stay here and press the pulsating for the salary. Thank God, I have a profession that allows me to live comfortably and adequately. Moreover, having no exceptional vices or living requirements, I can live quietly with the proceeds of my professional study and stay at home. This is the message I send to Mr Ferranti, who has sued me for another matter, and the Assembly of Parliamentary Elections and Immunities is considering whether my statements have been offensive or expressed in the context of political conflict. I apologized to Mrs Ferranti if my statements had provoked a feeling of offense in her, and that was not my intention. I am still addressing them to you today and I will also address them to you if this House considers my conduct to be unavoidable. Again, I'll do it again. However, this is the message I send to Mr Ferranti: the measure can be fired in the Commission in a decision-making session in twenty days; if this is not done, then it means that a trick has been adopted, an artifice in order to be able to tell the people that they had agreed without eventually bringing home the result. A journalist asked me about the electoral return; it is known that I am not a local politician and I do not value the pulse of the electoral consensus. I don't think I've ever asked anyone to vote. So, I don't care if there's an election return or not. I did something that I felt was right to do; I made a regulatory intervention after being in the religious silence of my study to reflect on how I could solve the problem of these people. I had found a solution that was applauded by my friends from Forza Italia. It's a battle that I didn't even intend to name just me, but I wanted to share with all the adventure friends, all the friends of Forza Italia. In fact, I think that it is thanks to them that I formed myself in this way and it is always thanks to them that this measure arrived in the final resolution to the Senate. Gentlemen, Senator Tonini, President Zanda, Senator Lumia, I hope you will give me a signal of intellectual honesty. I hope that the Democratic Party, which I also supported during the constitutional reform - being part of the Group of Greens - will give me an honest answer and tell me whether or not it intends to shed light on this measure. Gentlemen, if - alas - this will not happen, I will tell the people of Campania that I have been screwed, cheated, and who cheats me I do not want to have anything to do with. I leave to them the satisfaction of having cheated me and to me the dignity of having been in good faith. I have said everything, Madam President. I could talk for another hour, but you'd take my word for it. Thank you for allowing me a few more minutes and I would like to say that, of course, our Group will be voting in favour of this measure. [[Applause from the ALA-SCCLP and FI-PdL XVII groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-824.ana.u83	I shall refer the following to another session of the draft law.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-824.ana.u84	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-824.ana.u85	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-824.ana.u86	MALAN (FI-PdL XVII). Madam President, I would like to ask a few questions. On 19 April last, the Senate approved an agenda that commits the Government to repay the municipalities of the expenses incurred in preparing the referendum that should have taken place on 28 May. Since the law that prevented the referendum was adopted only recently, the municipalities have already had to face considerable costs. The Senate has committed the government to repay the expenses to the municipalities. I would ask the Government to answer my question 4-07477 of 9 May. On the same day I presented the question 4-07465 in which I ask the contents of the conversation between the President of the Council Gentiloni Silveri and the well-known international speculator George Soros, supporter of the LGBT agenda, of mass migration, of the overcoming of the national states and of the spread of drugs. It would be interesting to know which of these topics he spoke with the President of the Council, since it was not a private meeting but took place at Palazzo Chigi, of which, however, the government website - rightly generous of information on the other meetings held by the President of the Council - did not inform, but it was the press agencies that did so. I also urge the answer to the question 3-03233 of 18 October last and to others that I mention by number on the same topic, the 4-06825, 4-06850 and 4-06982 on why, despite there are precise obligations of law, the Ministry of Infrastructures and the transports has not called the contest for the renewal of the concessions of the ATIVA highway and the Turin-Piacenza highway. The lack of this invitation to tender makes the taxpayer pay - or loses to the State, depending on how the contest was organized - a few hundred thousand euros a day. Since 18 October, every day the Italian State has lost a few hundred thousand euros because the lords of the Ministry of Infrastructure and Transport not only do not indicate the contest, but do not deserve to answer questions. That is why, given the time, I shall begin to conclude my speech, although I should also like to ask other questions, but these are enough for today. I just remember that the Italian Government is the only one who does not answer questions; it answers only part of them. All the governments of all the other countries of the world that are provided with a Parliament answer questions; all the Italian regional, provincial and municipal councils do so; only the national government does not do so. The Rules of Procedure of the Senate are precise in stating that it must do so, so it must remedy it. [[Applause from Senator Amidei.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-824.ana.u87	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-824.ana.u88	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-824.ana.u89	BLUNDO (M5S). Madam President, I would like to speak briefly, after having already done so in February last year, to urge the Presidency once again to proceed quickly with the appointment of the senators who will have to compose the Single Chamber Committee of Inquiry into the reconstruction of the city of L'Aquila and the other municipalities affected by the earthquake of 6 April 2009. I would remind the Presidency that the Committee of Inquiry was decided by this House on 10 November last, with the approval of document XXII, No 5, at my first signature, which I had tabled even in 2013. Launching the Commission's work is a necessary act for the citizens of the Eagle who want to see the political responsibilities for the many illegals that have marked the process of reconstruction in recent years and that have fortunately ended up under the magnifying glass of the judiciary. The determination of political responsibilities is not secondary in this matter, all the more so after the recent spread of some interceptions that, while not bringing out facts and circumstances criminally relevant, highlight but favorable interweavings and treatments between the outgoing administration and some entrepreneurs engaged in reconstruction operations, to the point of throwing further shadows on the degree of transparency and morality with which the operations of these years have been managed. In addition, in an article published in "The Centre" on May 11, reference is made to the fact that the mayor knew he was intercepted. To communicate to a person the existence of an investigation constitutes the offence of violation of professional secrecy and on this I will also present a question to the Minister of Justice. Since November, ladies and gentlemen, it has been months that would have been valuable to start the investigation and have already achieved some important first results. In conclusion, only in March, after my request, President Grasso asked for the names of the members of the Committee of Inquiry and Mr Montevecchi, as the Parent Company, indicated my name and that of Senator Castaldi; nothing is known, instead, of the names indicated by the other Groups. We do not know whether everyone has given their indications or whether some group is late in arriving at the Presidency. It is true that this delay in time is difficult to justify and to justify for reasons other than the absence of the famous political will. I therefore ask the Presidency, pursuant to Article 2 (1) of the document establishing the Commission of Inquiry, to proceed as soon as possible to the appointment of members and, if the parliamentary groups have not yet communicated the names, to indicate the reasons which have so far prevented the initiation of the Commission of Inquiry, perhaps by replying to the letter I sent on 21 December, to which I have never received any reply. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-824.ana.u90	Senator Blundo, you have already defined the reasons yourself, because not all the groups have communicated the names of the members of the Commission.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-824.ana.u91	The motions, questions and questions received by the Presidency will be published in Annex B to today's report. I would remind you that the Senate will come back to meet in public today, at 3 p.m., with the same order of business. The sitting was closed at 1.05 p.m.
