ParlaMint-IT_2017-04-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-802.ana.u1	The sitting was opened at 16.31 a.m. The Minutes shall be read. Mr Pegorer, Secretary, read the Minutes of the afternoon sitting of the previous day.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-04-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-802.ana.u2	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-04-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-802.ana.u3	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-04-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-802.ana.u4	SANTANGELO (M5S). Madam President, I would like to ask for the vote on the Minutes, subject to a quorum check.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-04-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-802.ana.u5	I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators, by electronic procedure. (The request is supported). I therefore call on the senators to make their presence known by electronic means. (Follows the quorum check.) The Senate is not a quorum. I therefore suspend the sitting. (The sitting was suspended at 16.35 a.m. and resumed at 16.57 a.m.)
ParlaMint-IT_2017-04-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-802.ana.u6	We shall now proceed to the vote on the Minutes. Verification of SANTANGELO (M5S) quorum. Madam President, I would once again ask for the quorum to be checked. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators, by electronic procedure. (The request is supported). I therefore call on the senators to make their presence known by electronic means. (Follows the quorum check.) The Senate has a quorum. Resumption of the debate on the Minutes I put the Minutes to the vote. It's approved.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-04-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-802.ana.u7	The list of senators on leave and absent on assignment received from the Senate, as well as further communications to the Assembly, will be published in Annex B to today's Minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-04-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-802.ana.u8	I would warn you that qualified votes can be taken in the course of today's sitting by electronic means. Therefore, from this moment on, the period of 20 minutes from the notice provided for in Article 119 (1) of the Regulation (16.59 hours).
ParlaMint-IT_2017-04-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-802.ana.u9	The next item is the continuation of the debate on draft law No 2756, already approved by the House of Deputies. I would remind you that during the afternoon sitting the rapporteur gave the oral report and the general discussion and discussion on the matter of trust took place.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-04-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-802.ana.u10	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-04-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-802.ana.u11	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-04-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-802.ana.u12	FUCKSIA (Mixed). Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, first of all I would like to thank the Government for allowing me to speak on the umpteenth confidence that is being cast from above, as has been the case with other decree-laws passed in this House, confusing urgency with haste. The decree-law procedure provides for a derogation from Parliament's legislative initiative, which must be approved by the two chambers and not only by one. However, I would like to point out that the impriety that lies at the basis of the provision, of which even in the afternoon session I had the opportunity to discuss and which has produced not a few problems, is also characterized by a suspected bad faith of the Government, which has parked... [[Brusio.]] Excuse me, Madam President, with this buzz it is impossible to speak! PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator Fucksia is right, colleagues can go and talk outside, if they stay in the Chamber, please listen. FUCKSIA (Mixed). As I said, Madam President, the government has kept the text of the bill parked in the House of Deputies for forty-three days and the Senate, which resisted the referendum on 4 December, has been downgraded to paperweights: we cannot fill the many gaps in the text, because we are not allowed time to do so. If we wanted to make a summary, we could say that until now improvisation has gone out of fashion: in seven months of emergency three decree-laws have been issued and it has already been announced a fourth, in addition to 18 ordinances, that instead of helping complicate things. We can say, therefore, that something in the management of this emergency was wrong and wrong was the method, because one cannot legislate without first realizing and having a complete view of things. I could thank you for the agendas that have been approved, in particular on free zones, on the extension of the rule on compulsory education to schools, on the refreshment of economic damage to businesses, on the further delay of time for the removal of records, on the incentive to increase transport, in particular to rail, in earthquake areas. In light of all that could be done, however, these are drops of Valium, i.e. a palliative that I cannot be satisfied with. On the other hand, I want to see the measures that suspend taxes and I am referring to the so-called heavy pay envelopes, not just a delay; I want to see the measures that establish free zones, because the simple suspension of taxes, both for people and for companies, is not enough and that would be nothing more than a new earthquake announced. Seismic events have further aggravated the pre-existing economic situation already critical, with particular reference to small and medium-sized enterprises. The earthquake areas of Marche, Abruzzo, Lazio and Umbria are depopulating, because the necessary interventions are not yet there. Even the promenade of Prince Charles of England was perceived by the citizens as a more concrete and effective action than those of many other politicians, who appeared as empty and abstract politicians from the problems of the territory. That should make us think. I want to see the measures that provide for the economic damage to companies that have suffered damage and I want to see all these measures on site, because I want people to have the opportunity to see the construction sites open. Today the reconstruction has not yet begun, while, as I said this morning, in the Marche, on the occasion of the previous earthquake, it had begun after three months and at the Eagle after six months 40,000 people had a home: instead we find ourselves not having realized even half of the necessary inspections. So we are really in crisis, the population is in crisis and of the EUR 23 billion foreseen by the European Commission, we have only EUR 1 billion in the budget. There is a lot of confusion and I would not want that after Renzi's very optimistic announcement, so he would have rebuilt everything as it was and where it was, and Errani's correction, so you can't rebuild everything as it was and where it was, there is a further passage for which nothing is rebuilt, because there is no money, or it will be rebuilt when it is too late and people will see before the tomb that the house rebuilt. There is no time to lose: we need a financial guarantee, we need to give the immediate availability of resources and the possibility to use the donated funds (which has not yet been done) that have arrived, but that we do not know how to use. I call for haste, but I also call for reason, because people cannot be paid, put to manage such a complex situation, to form themselves. To train one does the internship, does not take charge of directing and managing situations like this... [[The microphone automatically switches off]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-04-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-802.ana.u13	One minute, Senator Fucksia.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-04-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-802.ana.u14	FUCKSIA (Mixed). Even less so, Madam President. This decree-law tries to solve the known problems, without being able to solve them. I repeat, however, that, out of a sense of responsibility, I will vote against the confidence placed by the Government, however, announcing from now on the presentation of a motion to perfect and complete the necessary legislation, finish the phase of the emergency and begin the reconstruction. We're making motions for anything, and I think a motion of help and address might be useful.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-04-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-802.ana.u15	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-04-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-802.ana.u16	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-04-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-802.ana.u17	COMAROLI (LN-Aut). Madam President, I do not want to repeat now the story of the measure to reiterate the issue that we have not deepened in the Senate, but I would like to point out that at least one thing could be done: in general discussion, where several colleagues have spoken, the Government could reply, so several issues would have been highlighted and the Government would have given its version. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group]] Instead the government thought well to say: so much is done, point and only. This is not good, Madam President, but not so much for us, but rather for the citizens and on this matter, which is particularly sensitive. Today we are at the third decree-law and soon there will be a quarter. So it comes to say: but why must one continually chase situations by making decrees on decrees? I say this because in the decree-law there are some provisions that change what we approved two months ago. More: the Government has included in this decree-law some issues that our Group, the League Group, had already highlighted as fundamental to try to solve the problem to these citizens and to which the Government had at the time said no. I am referring, for example, to the expertise provided in place of the jury, which could speed up the execution of the work or to the opportunity to insert the accelerated procedure for minor damage or to increase the staff for those municipalities that already have to suffer and do not know how to give an answer to their citizens; at least they could be helped in these terms. We had strongly asked for the extension of taxes until 31 December 2017 already on the occasion of the first decree-law, so the citizens could have a plan of tranquility, instead only now such extension is inserted. I still remember our request for a derogation for non-dangerous rubble or the extension of loans for households and businesses. We have always been told no, in the previous decree-laws, but now, at last, the Government has realized the opportunity of these interventions, but let us think about how much time it has been lost, Madam President. The situation they are experiencing - we all see it - is dramatic and sorry to hear us say that everything is resolved. It is also regrettable to hear, as I have heard in general debate by a PD colleague, that oppositions are making matters, screaming and so on, while PD is doing the facts. Madam President, it is not us who are saying this and highlighting it: on Saturday there was a demonstration of those citizens to say that things have not been done. They're the ones who said that. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group]] But let us take credit for the measure. There are things missing. Many promises have been made, however, as my colleague Mr Arrigoni said this morning, we see that still today there are no relief houses for these citizens, despite the fact that they have been evicted from the hotel where they are currently living. It is true, this decree-law introduces simplification rules, but if we go to see, for the citizens these rules are incomprehensible because they make references to articles and refer back to other norms; the citizens' committees themselves tell us that they find it difficult to understand what is written in the decree-laws, because they are difficult to read. If we consider the various orders that the earthquake commissioner makes, let alone for a simple citizen how difficult it is to understand what he must do in order to return to his home. Madam President, that is not the case: politics should be first and foremost at the service of the citizens. When a citizen lives a similar drama, politics should be there immediately. Nothing else. On the other hand, in the "nothing else," there is perhaps something that is considered more important, as emerges, for example, with the introduction of article 18-a in the decree-law, which - let us remember - is not due to a parliamentary amendment introduced to the House, but to an amendment of the Government. Why is there the phantom creation of the Department for the Casa Italia project at the Presidency of the Council? For the valorization of the territory. What's it for, I don't know. Surely the government knows, if it has tabled the amendment for its realization it will certainly have idea of what to make it do. But we ask ourselves: wouldn't it have been better to invest in Civil Protection, which manages the emergency? But there were three general executives and four non-general executives who had to be hired and in fact were hired. And I remember the three general executives aren't gonna do a pageant. Then there is the famous question of farmers. It is true that 23 million euros have been allocated to farmers affected by this emergency, but to which farmers from Basilicata, Calabria, Sicily and Campania are rightly added. The latter are also among the beneficiaries of these EUR 23 million. Moreover, we do not understand why those affected by the Liguria flood emergency were excluded. [[Applause from Senator Divine.]] But what I want to point out is that 23 million euros are few, and they are useless if we consider that it is estimated that there is need of 52 million euros only for the farmers of the Abruzzo Region. Madam President, there is no point in saying that the government is late; now there will be a fourth decree-law, but it is late. Errani himself said I was late. We want to point out strongly that there is absolutely no need to lower the focus on these places. When the images were broadcast on television, everyone said that we had to face the emergency, but even if we no longer see those images on television, we must not forget those territories and that population, because I challenge anyone to see their homes destroyed, made with so many sacrifices, to see their activities destroyed. Besides not having the house, you no longer know how to survive: this is the drama of the situation and we must not forget about this. The emergency is difficult to predict. But what can be expected are the procedures, rather than the pursuit of a decree-law after another to fix the various things. There should be a set of rules which already lay down the guidelines to be followed in the face of any emergency. Is there an earthquake emergency? All right, you know where you can place the people involved and who is to coordinate the work, as well as who you have to contact. This is what we should all do: we should tackle the very important problem of getting the situation down to a little bit, because, as we are seeing, many times we are faced with a situation and we cannot proceed. The mayors themselves are telling us they're having a hard time doing anything. We are trying to manage this situation only thanks to the competence and the will of the personnel of the fire department and the forces of order and, above all, of the volunteers. Madam President, it is true that there is little money, but it is a matter of priority: in our view, the priority must be our citizens, only them. On the contrary, we note that there is no such attention on the part of the Government and, therefore, the Group of the North League will not vote in favour of confidence. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-04-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-802.ana.u18	On behalf of the Assembly, I greet the students and professors of the Istituto comprensivo statale "Angelo Casalini" of San Marzano di San Giuseppe, in the province of Taranto. Welcome, guys. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-04-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-802.ana.u19	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-04-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-802.ana.u20	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-04-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-802.ana.u21	MAURO Giovanni (GAL (GS, PPI, M, Id, E-E, MPL, RI)). Madam President, Mr President-in-Office of the Government, I must first make an aesthetic notation. Recently in this House we discussed the motion of no confidence against a Minister, who was rejected, and on that occasion the benches reserved for the Government seemed to be too small to collect the representation of the Executive that has flown into this House to support the Minister. That motion was perhaps politically important, but I do not know how important it could be for citizens' daily lives. Today, in order to discuss a subject that distresses hundreds of thousands of citizens and families and leaves on the pavement an economic world that had been built with so much effort over time, the presence of a Deputy Minister of Agricultural Food and Forestry Policy will have to suffice. [[Applause from Senator Rizzotti]] I say this from an aesthetic point of view, Madam President, because the Government should also be careful about these things, showing that it has particular interest, in addition to having it in its heart, for an emergency that is really leading to the exasperation of the populations concerned. It is an exasperation, Mr President, which comes from feeling almost dull by the attitude of the institutions. You have also read the statements of representatives, institutional and not, of those territories, who have said that many walks have been made, so many certificates of solidarity have been there and so many t-shirts have been worn in the places affected by the earthquake, but then, in terms of the facts, the achievements and the realizations of the promises we are witnessing very little. Well, we think that there is a real and serious responsibility of the Government in this. The decree-law under consideration contains many prescriptions and positions, some absolutely agreeable. For example, how can we not share interventions in favour of cultural heritage, or those on the suspension of the tax burden on the population concerned? How can we fail to see the incentives for economic activities that have suffered this incredible trauma? But how can we not say, at this stage, that having to resort to further intervention with a decree of urgency means having an absolute lack of planning capacity wider? How can we fail to note that the same instrument adopted is a clear demonstration of the fact that it has not been possible at all to have wider planning? In fact, this government has allowed itself the luxury to complicate the situation. How else can we define the fact that we want to accompany an extraordinary Commissioner to the structure of civil protection? In all the forums, in all the debates, in all the debates we face, even in this House, we insist that the bureaucracy, the further increase of structures, superstructures, permits and other permits is still what often sinks the real life of our country. What do we do? In an emergency phase we create two equal structures that have to deal with the same thing, rather than strengthening the structure that can intervene. I find, then, really strange the attitude of the government, which is always a government pro tempore, in the sense that it has a limited duration over time, but it governs a state that must project itself in the years to come. So, how is it that this further natural disaster, this additional bureaucratic machine stress test compared to an extraordinary event, does not lead to a longer planning requirement? Natural events, it is clear, are not at all predictable; there is no science that can say exactly whether or not an earthquake will occur - there would be another - or a misfortune, a sudden fire, or anything else; but case studies allow us to make a programming. For example, is it so complicated to plan and organise your own structures on the basis of the necessary standards of intervention? To ensure that if, for example, a seismic event will have caused the collapse of 30% of the construction structures of a given territory, we will have a level 1 intervention; if, instead, that event will have caused the fall of 60% of the buildings, we will have a level 2 intervention and then, again, level 3 intervention; or, if it is only a warning, will we have another type of intervention? Parametrically and predict that structures react to an event based on the intensity of the event itself? We cannot invest all the structures of the state, which are invested in immediate intervention only on the basis of what is immediately perceived by the eyes and the ability of the officials in charge, and very quickly prepare a series of interventions that can be planned instead. What we spend on extraordinary interventions is much more than we could spend planning interventions in advance than events. And, instead, the choice of the government is to double the structures of intervention on the territory, without predicting at least a start of organization of the structure of the State compared to what unfortunately - we have to tell us and I would not want colleagues to do the abjurors while I say it - certainly, because of the morphology of our territory, as we are located on the terrestrial globe, it could still occur. Madam President, most of the LAG Group will once again vote against the government's confidence, because we believe that the urgent decree combined with trust and, therefore, the request for a vote on the basis of the government's membership and survival and not on the basis of the goodness of the intervention, which in this case concerns the earthquake, is a fact that compresses parliamentary life, the possibility and the will to determine reasonings for the future of our country. It is true that today we must give immediate refreshment to those who are in the emergency and I am thinking of the economic refreshment of activities and the possibility of returning to their homes. However, this capacity, Madam President, could have been more easily verified if we had put all the instruments of prevention in place. We have a virtuous example, Norcia's. This country is located at 15 kilometers of the main epicenter of the earthquake but had carried out its own seismic prevention activity and, thank God, there were no deaths, no devastating collapses as in other areas. It is therefore necessary to prevent from the point of view of both the seismic risk, and the organizational capacity of the Government and the structures of the State of emergency in relation to the situations of crisis that are being realized. Madam President, it is likely that today the Government will gain confidence in these particular interventions, which in some respects are all too specific, as Mrs Comaroli said: in fact, in the measure under consideration, the Commission is even holding back to appoint directors or to do other small things which, out of pity of reasoning, we are not here to point out. However, in denying the government confidence in the decree-law under discussion, we hope that it will act as soon as possible for that planning that we consider necessary in the interest of our country. [[Applause from Senators Rizzotti and Liuzzi.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-04-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-802.ana.u22	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-04-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-802.ana.u23	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-04-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-802.ana.u24	RICHIUTI (Art. 1-MDP). Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, the decree-law that the Senate is called upon to convert into law in today's sitting, after the examination of the House in which some useful amendments have been made, is a very important measure in favour of the populations affected by the seismic events of recent months. From 24 August 2016 to today is a recurring news that of the earthquake shocks in Central Italy, of the difficulties of connection with the affected areas, of the lengths of reconstruction, of the hopes of a rapid redemption in those lands so dense of history and culture. However, earthquakes, Slavs, avalanches and road breaks and power grids are not only fatalities. If we were to consider in part predictable and avoidable the consequences of the many disasters that we have witnessed with anger and anguish in recent months, we should know that in the end we would have more duties to take appropriate and correct legislative decisions to deal with these events. The State has structures that all serve (civil protection, Army, electric companies, road maintenance contractors); the State has tasks, functions and means that the individual does not have. Help and prevention are still public things, which must always be guaranteed in the best way. In our country there has been an extraordinary manifestation of solidarity, generosity and volunteering that has led many to become useful and to provide assistance to those citizens bent by mourning and pain and that is where a very high sense of national community has been rediscovered. However, those communities and citizens who are confident that the state will make far-sighted decisions and perform functions in an efficient and protective way for all, those communities that have faced disasters cost the lives of more than 300 people with 59,000 shocks, nine of which equal to or greater than the fifth degree, demand that the legislator be now fully aware of the many fragility of our country and that he take care of it firmly and rigorously. The state must be able to prove that it is always effective and clean. We must promote efficiency and innovation and be intolerant to mafias and corruption that pollute our lives and prevent us from making right choices. Let me give you an example: in the countries of Northern Europe they have made considerable investments to equip many roads outside the city (the main roads, not mountain mule tracks) with underground thermal cables. In winter those cables allow you to have the snow melted in a few hours, reserve the snow sweeps for the side roads and get there first. How come these things aren't done or done too little by us? Of course, it takes money, investment, innovation, foresight and clean procedures: the same things that are needed to secure our territory and to ban the cementification of our landscape. Our country must, therefore, begin to move its steps towards this direction, very quickly. The measure that we are examining - according to the Article 1 Group, democratic and progressive movement - finally contains some significant choices that can respond positively to the many questions of the populations of the earthquake zones of Abruzzo, Lazio, Marche and Umbria. First of all - and we say this clearly in this provision - there is seismic prevention. Of course, some delays have accumulated and there is a huge sense of effort to try to remedy the damage that has affected entire cities still in a state of emergency. But in addition to the gratitude that we must have to many volunteers and rescuers who have prevented even more sad events, we must be able to express our deepest appreciation for the valuable work done by the mayors, the Presidents of the Region, many local administrators, the Civil Protection department and the commissioner for reconstruction Vasco Errani. The measures contained in the measure that we are about to approve are grafted on the plant of the previous decree-law n. 189 of 2016 and they certainly take on a positive value. In particular, I would like to draw attention to the importance of the provisions providing for acceleration of ongoing procedures and the implementation of interventions by emergency structures and school buildings; support for the weakest sections of the population; the strengthening of the staff allocation used for reconstruction; the extension of tax deadlines; support for the economy, self-employed workers and farmers through the possibility of obtaining soft loans for the payment of taxes until 2018; and the provision of refreshment for damage caused to individuals and businesses. The measure also increases the funding for the seismic micro-zonation plan in the areas at greatest risk and allocates for the next ten years the proceeds of the 8 per thousand state share aimed at cultural assets for the recovery and reconstruction of artistic and cultural assets of the territories affected by earthquakes. Therefore, it is a good decree-law that contains some specific measures that represent the beginning of a virtuous path. I also believe that we must pay particular attention in these hours, after some steps already taken, to a great operation to secure private homes and public buildings, especially schools, because they represent the most concrete possibility for so many children and girls to be able to safely return to their classrooms and never lose the hope of a better future in the lands where they were born. In this sense, therefore, the urgent measures provided for in the decree-law to ensure the regular conduct of educational and didactic activity acquire a significant value. In the measure there are some limitations that must be highlighted. Firstly, in view of the prospect of complete economic reconstruction, a structural fiscal instrument must be possible to allow the territories of central Italy to be shocked by the seismic events to recover, as soon as possible, conditions of competitiveness and to emerge from a phase of infrastructural distress, on the model of free zones, as provided for in the opinion approved by the 10th Commission to the measure. At the same time, I wish to stress the non-enlargement to other municipalities of the seismic crater, which also deserved the same inclusion, due to lack of resources. And on this we hope that soon the government will be able to put its hand in a proper way. The Article 1 Group, democratic and progressive movement, however, recognizes the effort that has been made in the decree-law by linking the theme of reconstruction with that of quality development, but will always try to insist on the issue of environmental conversion of our territory, on the protection of the soil, on urban regeneration, on a green revolution. For too long, in fact, false problems such as CGIL, justiceism and owls have been agitated in political propaganda, while more serious ones have been set aside, such as those concerning the protection and protection of our territory in a modern way and with respect for local communities. For these reasons, the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats will vote for confidence. [[Applause from the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and ……]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-04-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-802.ana.u25	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-04-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-802.ana.u26	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-04-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-802.ana.u27	MAZZONI (ALA-SCLP). Madam President, this is the third decree-law of the post earthquake, and it is already announced a fourth, which must be added to the other interventions included in the law of stability and, subsequently, also in the so-called South Decree; a summation of still insufficient rules, because they all have the character of the emergency without a coordinated and planned vision of the things to do to restore a stable structure in the near future in the areas affected by the earthquake, with the addition that not even the emergency has been addressed in the right way. It is no coincidence that the protests increase over the months by the mayors and the populations of the Marches, Umbria, Lazio and Abruzzo. The univocal and sacrosanct demand is that the economy can be restarted, that the shops can reopen, that the State plays its part in supporting companies that have suffered damage to the structures, not irreparable but that have still compromised their production capacity. Well: only very weak signals have come from the government on this front, because these activities are still in a state of abandonment with the risk that, in the absence of an effective recovery, the areas affected by the earthquake will remain deserted, and that the inhabitants will never return. The safety of schools, another high priority, is also a battle that only a small part of it has been successful. There was, in short, an inability on the part of the Government to understand what strategically were the interventions to be put in place immediately to avoid the desertification of a fundamental part of central Italy from the productive, environmental and tourist point of view. The removal of the rubble has not yet been completed; the displaced are still waiting for the houses, the public infrastructure is inadequate, while the hoteliers urge the government and demand the release of the rooms occupied by the displaced for the beginning of the summer tourist season. We still do not know where the population affected by the earthquake can be settled and Commissioner Errani himself has repeatedly recognized the slowness of the organizational machine, despite the commitment of civil protection, fire department, volunteers, the forces of order and many local administrators. This third decree-law - just scroll through it - is a basically technical measure, often incomprehensible, aimed at the functionality of public administration. Overtaking the rules already enacted with previous measures, with other decrees, with the same ordinances as the extraordinary commissioner, the old Italian vice is repeated to face the problems not through a single slim text, but with a stratification of norms that go to complicate even more, if not to compromise, that principle of transparency that should have been the flywheel of reconstruction. Unfortunately, it can only be seen that the Government is far behind with the timetable of the interventions to be carried out. And then there's the crux of resources. In this sense, the mayors' appeal was almost completely unheard of. The mayors of the affected municipalities must think of medium and long-term measures to give continuity and hope to the affected populations. If we are wrong about the reconstruction of the territory and its social and economic fabric, in a few years we will be talking with a deserted community, said the representatives of the ANCI during their hearing in the House. And we are talking about, looking to the future, about 1.3 million citizens. The mayors do not need buffer measures but extraordinary interventions, given the economic, social and cultural devastation that the earthquake has caused. Even more could and had to be done on extensions and suspensions for the inhabitants of the earthquake zones. On the TARI, for example, a mechanism had to be put in place to guarantee service managers, even in the absence of a turnout of resources on the part of citizens. Therefore, there was absolutely no need for effective and not merely formal compensation. Just as it would have served to intervene more strongly, through areas of tax facilitated, in favour of the productive nuclei, to keep them on the territory, pushing them to invest, so as to avoid that economic desertification, of which I have already mentioned, which would even make reconstruction useless. Therefore, the text of the earthquake decree approved by the Chamber appears incomplete and risks leading to the collapse of the Municipalities, of the crater and outside the crater, since the amendments aimed at supporting the Crater Municipalities from the point of view of public finance constraints and guaranteeing it the derogation from the obligation to balance the budget for the three-year period 2017/2019 have been rejected. In addition, the municipalities had also requested that a reasonable and realistic compensatory effect be foreseen for 2017 against the rate shift in the payment of municipal taxes for the current year. These two measures are considered by the local authorities to be indispensable in order not to have problems in terms of cash balances even in the light of the necessity to anticipate resources for the payment of urgent interventions carried out in recent months. With regard to seismic vulnerability checks on public buildings, mayors cannot be placed in front of the close or keep a school open without the support of certain rules. We are still waiting for the start of the table announced by the Government on February 1 to define the possible closure of public structures, a fundamental junction since, if a school or hospital is closed, alternative solutions should be defined first. Ultimately, the overall response to the entire earthquake emergency, starting from the first, is completely unsatisfactory, namely the right of citizens to have a roof. The so-called wooden houses proved to be a privilege: the extractions were made not to define who went as, but to define who was the lucky one who could go inside and who, instead, still had no roof. And it is dramatic that seven, eight months after the earthquake, there is still this discrimination. One of the few positive notes of this decree-law, along with the heavy pay envelope for residents in the affected municipalities, was the enlargement of the crater, but the criteria for such enlargement could certainly be fairer. Just as the Casa Italia project, so flagshipd by the previous Government, has remained almost a dead letter and today we are talking about it only for an amendment inserted at the last moment in the Chamber by the Government, which establishes an ad hoc department at the Presidency of the Council. Let's really hope this isn't another useless carriage. For all these reasons, Mr President, our vote can only be a vote against the confidence placed on the decree-law in our examination. [[Applause from the ALA-SCCLP Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-04-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-802.ana.u28	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-04-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-802.ana.u29	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-04-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-802.ana.u30	LANIECE (Aut (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT)-PSI-MAIE). Madam President, the decree-law that we are about to convert into law today, the more urgent measures in favour of the populations affected by seismic events, is the third in order of time linked to the need to give concrete answers to the territories, to the local communities and to the expectations of thousands of citizens of the Regions of Central Italy, tragically affected, for the umpteenth time, by the earthquake and, on this last occasion, in a general picture aggravated by the harsh winter climate, between snowstorms and unbearable frost. The aim of this measure is, once again, reconstruction. We try to give the quickest possible answers, trying to simplify administrative processes but, at the same time, to respect the law and regulations that must exclude organised crime from this delicate passage. It is a decree-law that touches many aspects related to the normalization of the life of citizens: the restoration of the territory, the acceleration of the administrative measures and the fiscalization of the territories, from the enterprises to the local authorities, to the same families. The measure also includes urgent measures to regulate the performance of educational and educational activities; to promote the productive recovery of the tourism sector and support for the weak sections of the population; an extraordinary plan for the supply of medicines and support for the development of farms. Here, these are some of the important issues dealt with in the decree-law to try to restore normality and serenity and, possibly, improve life and thus give a future perspective to thousands of people who have suddenly found themselves uprooted from their land and from the homes of their ancestors. It's not easy, it's not easy at all, unfortunately. Seismic events, periodically over the centuries, have brought entire countries and regions to their knees, representing a hard test for administrations of all political colors. So, concluding, we think that this decree-law is a good political response to the needs of the populations; an answer that naturally needs careful vigilance in its application, but that nevertheless represents an important embankment to the yet another tragic challenge that nature presents us, all the more considering the difficulties linked to the exceptional weather conditions and the fact that it was operated on territories martyred in a few months by more seismic events. In renewing confidence in this Government, I declare the Group's support for the Socialist-MAIE Autonomous Party. [[Applause from the Aut Group (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT) - PSI-MAIE.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-04-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-802.ana.u31	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-04-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-802.ana.u32	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-04-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-802.ana.u33	Mr Gualdani (AP-CpE). Madam President, since a meeting of our Group is currently taking place, I am voting in favour of the measure and trust in the Government and I ask that I be able to deliver the written text of my speech. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. The Presidency authorizes it to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-04-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-802.ana.u34	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-04-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-802.ana.u35	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-04-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-802.ana.u36	MANGILI (M5S). Madam President, it is with great speed that today, in this House, we are called upon to express ourselves on a decree-law, the third in order of time, which provides for further urgent measures in favour of the populations hit hard by seismic events. And this is the urgency that you have decided to put your trust in preventing this branch of Parliament from making any kind of substantial change. We are faced with a measure that largely amends Decree-Law No. 189 of 2016 and seeks to accelerate on emergency housing solutions; to give new regulations for minor damage to buildings; to ensure the validity of the school year through specific measures and try to give some resources for the resumption of productive activities. If we were to confine ourselves to the subject matter, it should be said that some of the desired improvements introduced at first reading are nothing more than confirmation of how much this Government - and certainly the previous one - has been and is still deaf to the real needs of the citizens involved in this sad affair. The Government, with great presumption, felt that it did not accept many of the suggestions made during the examination of the previous texts, so much so that it was now forced to intervene again on the subject. We cannot fail to note that the rules have been so complicated that it has become very difficult for citizens to restructure their homes. At present, the only measure taken to cope with the hardships suffered is the transfer of the populations to the structures made available along the Adriatic coast. The rest of the measures promised by the Government have remained unimplemented and no intervention - in terms of viability, resumption of agricultural and commercial production activities, relocation of the populations in the areas of origin through the houses - has been carried out. The inclusion in this text, then, of Article 18 (4) on the remuneration of the leaders of the Commissioner's structure, does nothing but highlight the wide detachment of many political representatives from civil society. Was it really appropriate? Without a doubt, we are also opposed to the various procedures derogating from the part of the reconstruction, which reduce the overall transparency of the interventions, with the result of making an ordinary rule an exception. My group, by voting in favour of those two measures earlier, had shown responsibility. We were truly convinced that before such a delicate subject we too could help to give support, help, even comfort to the people. We were deluded that the old politics and institutions, faced with an absolute priority such as the lives of citizens, their security and their safety, would put aside ideologies and party schemes, but that was not the case. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] Our disappointment today results in anger, and even more so since we learned that six countries of the European Union, including Germany, have thought well to revise downwards the European Commission's proposal allowing 100% funding from European reconstruction expenditures in areas affected by earthquakes and other natural disasters, bringing it to 90%. This is not only about solidarity, but also about respect for the pain of our fellow countrymen, who have lost their loved ones, their homes, their shops; citizens forced to live still in hotels. Yet was it not the former President of the Council, Renzi, who asked for flexibility in Europe for 0.2% of GDP, or 3.4 billion? And, above all, it was not Merkel who in Maranello, answering a question about the request for flexibility for the Casa Italia project, had said: I am sure that Europe will find a sensible solution. What makes sense in choosing to reduce the share of funding to 90%? Faced with this choice, we of the 5 Star Movement feel outraged, but above all we are concerned because the new DEF and the maneuver that you are preparing will be focused on the reconstruction of Central Italy, without you having done well. The maneuver, which you are preparing to avoid yet another European infringement procedure, should include, among other things, a billion euros (for three years) to be allocated to areas affected by the earthquake. In fact, it is better to use the verb on parole, since for seven months there have been no great results and, indeed, there are countries like Illica where the removal of the rubble has hardly begun. It is useless to repeat that the billion of euros previewed from the Gentiloni Government Silveri seems like a well-thought-out political move. The truth is that the measures on the earthquake, precisely because they will not affect the structural deficit, and therefore will not be calculated for the purposes of the fiscal compact, will be applied only to give a non-depressive paint stroke to the maneuver and, therefore, will continue the policy announced by Renzi, who pulls straight without listening to anyone, even his friends mayors. By the way, the fact that this majority has decided not to listen to them can only demonstrate the narrow attitude of indifference that has led the mayors themselves to consider themselves deeply dissatisfied with the so-called earthquake-ter order. Vote in favour of this measure would mean betraying the pain, anger, disappointment of the citizens, who loudly ask us: "Enough words: we want the facts". This is why we had to accept the many requests and requests made during these days, recognizing the decisive role of the participation and involvement of citizens in the choices regarding planning and territorial development. The real problem is that those lands have been abandoned since August 24. We are thinking about rebuilding schools, cinemas, hospitals, but the real concern is and remains depopulation. It was important for local communities to remain on their territory, because this would have had a precise meaning: to restart them with more strength and courage. Instead, we are witnessing the migration of the population, which risks becoming permanent and irreversible. We must and must not forget the seriousness of what has happened: those areas of central Italy have been affected by a phenomenon that has no precedent for the frequent repetition of such intense shocks within a few months. The commitment to the earthquake is and must remain a top priority and must be addressed with more concrete and immediate responses and with the necessary resources. But unfortunately we have the certainty that this Government is not up to such a commitment. We will not be there this time, we do not want to be complicit in your wrong choices and we are convinced - even more so with regard to the decision of the umpteenth confidence - that our vote against will, however, be understood by all citizens. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-04-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-802.ana.u37	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-04-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-802.ana.u38	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-04-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-802.ana.u39	DE PETRIS (Misto-SI-SEL). Madam President, I must say that we were frankly very dismayed that the Government decided to put trust in this decree-law. And we should not be surprised today, since frankly we have lost count of how many times trust has been placed; indeed, this is a real reform that has been in the country, beyond the referendum. Each decree-law, depending on the Chamber from which the conversion process starts, eventually produces a reading only and always ends with the usual outcome, that of trust. This time, however, we were really surprised, because we had hoped and frankly thought of a different outcome. In the Commission, the various senators had tried to make their contribution. Perhaps we could not make any changes, but perhaps this time we could participate more in the work, managing to arrive at the conversion of the decree-law through the iter that should be ordinary, i.e. through the discussion of the amendments and the possibility of expressing one's own thought and one's vote on the merit of the decree-law. But even this time this will not be possible. We have tabled many amendments, a series of proposals which seemed absolutely important to us and of common sense, and we could make our contribution further in this House too. And I do not say that on a matter of partisan, but because the discussion of the amendments and perhaps their transformation into agendas could have given a strong signal and in any case be a trace for the fourth decree-law, which has already been announced and is coming, always on the earthquake. But that will not be possible. We would have voted in favour of the decree-law, although with many criticisms - now I come to it - just to give an important signal to the people, and instead we will obviously vote no to the confidence placed by the government. What did we focus on? We have concentrated on a series of proposals which dealt not only with the issues on which we all spoke, i.e. the list of Crater Municipalities or the appropriateness and verification of structural interventions, but also with other very important issues relating to one of the priorities, namely the maintenance and relaunching of productive and economic activities in the earthquake areas. We have also presented a series of proposals on the recovery of the building stock and on the events of schools and work in particular. Madam President, I am also obliged - and I am also addressing my fellow Members, since we have reached the third decree-law and the fourth one has been announced - to say that many problems have remained unresolved and unfortunately we must also count a number of delays not really small (in this regard demonstrations were held, the other day, by many people). That is why it would have been absolutely necessary to discuss the amendments and reach an ordinary approval. Let us think only of the issue of temporary housing units, which were designed to allow all displaced persons to return to their country. To date there are more than 8,000 people living in the hotel and more than 1,500 those living in facilities set up in some previous hospitalizations present on the territory, not to mention the issue that concerns the economic recovery of those areas. What we want to stress is that we not only continue to have - and this decree-law is proof of this - a constantly emerging approach, but - alas - we cannot even intervene with adequate immediacy and urgency on a number of priority issues - also because it has been a long time - like the one already mentioned in the housing units. By the way, I speak of immediacy improperly, because I repeat that many months have passed. We know perfectly well how great the damage caused by the earthquake is: we are talking about an estimate of EUR 23 billion, to which we will then have to add all the consequences that will be shown in the longer term. More importantly, it will cause further damage to the fact that we have not been able to deal with and resolve a number of emergency issues in time, including not taking effective action to maintain and restart productive activities in those areas, from tourist activities to those from agriculture, which I believe have been the most neglected: let us think about the dramatic days of snow and the isolation of farms. I believe, then, that there is another theme, which unfortunately also in this decree-law continually shines through: there is a tendency to centralize all the decision-making processes in the hands of the extraordinary commissioner, when it should now be evident to everyone the need for a more shared and participated path at all levels, from the municipalities to the local communities, to involve more actively all the subjects of the territory concerned. I believe that this is the only way to bring about a process of reconstruction and conversion. Among other things, the tragedy of l'Aquila in 2009 and the manner in which the post-sysm period was managed should have taught something about this. And, on the other hand, I believe - and this is the element that ultimately does not buy us time, on the contrary, makes even more protracting the decisions over time - that still dominates the process of centralization of decisions. The decree-law in question was to be the occasion and also a turning point from this point of view. On the other hand, once again, it is expected - for example - that the extraordinary Commissioner will focus on the whole part of the plan to equip the municipalities concerned with seismic microzonation studies. There is also a special convention, always managed directly by the Commissioner, for the technical-scientific support of the seismic microzoning centre of the National Research Council. And I can give other examples, such as the anticipation of the assignment of design tasks, even in this case below the thresholds of European importance, through negotiated procedures, which we consider a process still very centralised and which risks, among other things, having the negotiated procedure chosen, with a number of difficulties also from the point of view of transparency. There is another issue that we have all forgotten. I still remember Senator Renzo Piano, invited by the then President Renzi, coming here to illustrate the great project Casa Italia, of which we then had no trace. Yet, we know perfectly well that today 22 million Italians live in highly seismic zones. So the priority, in addition to emergencies and interventions for reconstruction through decrees, is to quickly accompany an extraordinary plan, which we expected seen had been presented in magna pump, for the safety of our territory. Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, even during the examination of the Economic and Financial Document we will insist on re-presenting interventions aimed at securing our territory, because today we can no longer continue simply and only to overcome the emergencies to tragedy. We should have understood - I hope so, but apparently the elections never serve - that the only possibility for a country like ours to save the local communities and also all our cultural assets and our beauties is to invest in a ten-year or twenty-year plan of securing our territory. We, Senators of the Italian Left - Left Ecology Freedom of the Mixed Group, will vote no to the question of trust, but honestly we would have liked in the decree-law to give at least a sign of approval also with regard to the affected populations. [[Applause from the Misso-SI-SEL Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-04-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-802.ana.u40	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-04-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-802.ana.u41	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-04-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-802.ana.u42	CERONI (FI-PdL XVII). Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, Madam Minister, the earthquake that struck central Italy was particularly intense and violent. Unfortunately, the government underestimated and failed to cope with this serious disaster effectively and efficiently, proving to be inadequate once again. The government, moreover, refused any confrontation, advice and suggestion. We are at the third decree-law and 18 orders have been issued. The procedures for overcoming the emergency and restarting the reconstruction were difficult to interpret and, therefore, incomprehensible and cumbersome. After seven months, we're back to square one. The protest is mounting on the territories. You have managed to displease everyone, citizens, businesses, professionals. The mayors even threatened to return the band to the prefect, buried by bureaucracy rather than by rubble. We had suggested from the first decree-law to buy the unsold apartments on the territory to place the families who had lost the house. You have arrived after nine months, but it is clear that the apartments you do not want to buy them, because the ban you have made provides for criteria under which the properties acquireable will be only a few tens. You wanted to purchase emergency housing solutions (SAE) at a cost of 1,280 euros per square meter, to which you add urbanization, but you understand that here there is the National Consortium of Bologna services and trouble to deviate from the choice. In seven months 63 houses were installed compared to the 3,000 needed. To those who have prepared them at a lower price of 30%, the Civil Protection has responded to participate in the next race. You bought tin canisters that look less like a house. Those who wanted to buy a house with their own resources had to abandon the idea in order not to incur building abuse. In the meantime, citizens have been deported to the coast, where - everyone knows - tourist facilities must be liberated to allow the summer season and, therefore, displaced persons must be relocated elsewhere. Some elderly people are on the fourth shift. Just read the newspapers: from Porto Recanati to Sirolo, 87 displaced people left camping to make room for tourists, between tears and protests. Then there are the hoteliers, who had to protest to see at least partially paid off the services provided. There are delays in the settlement of compensation to those who have found an independent accommodation. There are problems in reporting: the IT platform to which municipalities must access to report their expenses has been blocked for weeks. The damage suffered by the farmers is immense: hundreds of animals have not resisted the rigors of winter and have died because of the heavy delays in the delivery of the stables. 1,400 were needed, 33 were delivered. Support for companies damaged by the earthquake (Article 20 of Decree-Law No 189 of 2016) is still to come. The one-off allowance of 5,000 euros (Article 45 of Decree-Law No 189) in favour of co-ordinated and continuous collaboration relationships, commercial activities, self-employed and professional activities is not known what happened. The inspections are still on the high seas. In many municipalities it is not known when to finish the compilation of the cards and the estimate of damages. The reconstruction is at the starting point both the light one and the heavy one. Think that the rubble has not even been removed after seven months. It took seven months to determine whose jurisdiction it was. With what resources will the municipalities make urban planning and give the task for the microzonation necessary to rebuild? If you want to rebuild you have to do the seismic verification of the territory. The government lies when it says that the countries will be rebuilt where and how they were. The rules on seismic microzonation provide for the transfer of entire municipalities. There is still no order from Commissioner Errani for the restoration with the seismic improvement and reconstruction of buildings for residential use severely damaged or destroyed. The drafts in circulation are a source of many doubts and perplexities, starting from the costs per square meter recognized for the reconstruction, which are different compared to those practiced in L'Aquila and Emilia Romagna. Where are the criteria by which public reconstruction interventions are financed? Who makes these choices? Why is a given municipality financed and another not financed? Perhaps it will take the magistrates; as in every situation in Italy they will have to intervene. The ANAS has allocated 389 million euros for 408 urgent and unbanned interventions for road damage from the earthquake and practically nothing has been done yet. The cemeteries are still open-air coffins. The funds allocated are totally insufficient and laughable compared to 23.5 billion euros of estimated damage: 1.7 billion euros allocated for 2016-2017 are a misery compared to needs. You even ignored the mayor's demands. The municipalities are paying huge costs, which are not sustainable with the modest budgets of small municipalities, to cope with the assistance of the population and the safety of public and private buildings that are dangerous to public safety. Allowing a broader cash anticipation to meet the needs of the local authorities affected by the earthquake was a duty. Compensation for revenue, reduced as a result of exemptions and suspensions, should be provided for compensation for revenue losses from the TARI, and local government loans should be extended for 2018. The mayors rightly fear that they will be forced to close the budgets of their municipalities. You said no to everything. Finally, Minister Padoan said that the costs of reconstruction in the areas affected by the earthquake - there are agencies - will not be counted in the structural balance; why then do you want to count them in the balances of the local authorities? The exclusion from the balance is not even foreseen for liberal donations and insurance compensations. In doing so, you prevent the miserable resources that are available from being spent as well. Finally, it was appropriate to provide for the establishment of the special economic zone (SEZ) in order to encourage companies wishing to share and invest in earthquake-stricken territories. Without an incentive, who do you want me to go there and invest or spend a few cents? Someone explained to me that the Government has deliberately postponed the mayors' requests to the next decree-law that will accompany the DEF. To sweeten the pill of new taxes to the Italians will say that they needed aid for the earthquake zones. It is therefore clear to me that we are voting against this measure because Forza Italia cannot vote for the Government, but in this decree-law there are a thousand reasons to vote against it. [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-04-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-802.ana.u43	On behalf of the Assembly, I greet the teachers and students of the Technical Institute of Secondary Education, Guglielmo Marconi, Catania, who are attending our work. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-04-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-802.ana.u44	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-04-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-802.ana.u45	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-04-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-802.ana.u46	FABBRI (PD). Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, representatives of the Government, today the decree-law to the attention of the House responds to an exceptional situation which has occurred in recent months and which culminated, in mid-January, in a dramatic conjunction of events: a new seismic swarm at the same time as an abnormal atmospheric deterioration, with snowfalls that have not occurred for decades. It was an exceptional and unique situation that involved Regions already hit and broken by the earthquake of 24 August and 26 and 30 October, getting to kneel four Regions: Lazio, Umbria and, even more massively, Abruzzo and Marche. 18.16 (Follow FABBRI). In the course of the debate on the measure under discussion, necessary and indispensable to meet the needs of communities that represent, in terms of artistic-cultural history and productivity, the backbone of our country, also on the part of our colleagues in the House have been remembered the numbers of this emergency that unfortunately, together with those of the victims, leave dismay and mark the history of our country. There are four regions involved, more than 140 municipalities concerned: 142,000 surveys, two thirds of which in the Marche Region, requested for more than 200,000 instances. This is an unprecedented commitment made by our relief workers (such as the Civil Protection, the Army and the Firefighter Corps, to whom our deep gratitude goes) and by local administrations, at the forefront of their management. I do not want to forget the serious and loyal commitment of the Government and Parliament, because the objectives of help and support for our communities have never been set aside. I say it from Marche that, with great suffering, it sees its region still marked by the emergency, with the highest figure of displaced people (about 30,000 people), to which it has been tried to guarantee however accommodation and accommodation, and with the concern to observe how the economic-productive sector, already bent by the crisis, has been hit hard, with the risk of feeding also phenomena of depopulation especially in the internal areas. For this reason, aware of the impact of the earthquake on the economies of the areas involved, the Democratic Party Group proposed in 10a I would like to ask the Commission whether it is aware of the direct and indirect consequences it has had on our economies. Together with the housing emergency, we must absolutely address the issue of the reconstruction of the social fabric - starting from the school and housing structures - but also the economic and productive one, in order to create a perspective of recovery for the return to the normality of our territories. These measures were proposed and promptly resumed by the Government with the text under discussion. It does not escape that other measures and other measures will be called to put in place for this national challenge that is the reconstruction of our villages, our churches, our productive excellences, our communities: I think of the next game that we are called to win with the establishment of free zones. With the decree-law under consideration, which is based on the previous widening and improving it, also in the light of the new needs emerged in January, we lay the foundations for a legislative and procedural simplification in reconstruction, not giving way to regularity and transparency, but giving a perspective of speed compared to its times, especially for those who operate on our territories and in the affected municipalities and who rightly feel the weight of the emergency that afflicts their citizens, as well as guaranteeing interventions in support of work, businesses, school education and enhancing the role of local authorities, their protagonism in reconstruction. 18.19 p.m. The Decree-Law contains, in its articulation, urgent provisions for the acceleration of measures. In particular, the Extraordinary Commissioner is expected to promote a plan to equip municipalities affected by seismic events with level 3 seismic microzonation studies. The Regions are responsible for the assignment of primary and secondary urbanization works using the negotiated procedure, without prior publication of the notice with the contracting stations, and carry out the draw of the performers of the works through the anti-mafia registry or the lists kept by the prefectures. The legal supervision that had been introduced with the obligation to register for a specific register of companies intending to carry out reconstruction operations is strengthened. It is established that all the economic operators concerned are nevertheless allowed to participate in the procedures of custody for public reconstruction interventions, waiting for them to be enrolled in the registry and, of course, have the requirements laid down by law. The regions are then responsible for the management of the rubble. Students in the earthquake areas will have the opportunity to see themselves recognized in the school year 2016-2017, in derogation from the current provisions on the number of days of lessons and the minimum frequency required of students. There will be a strengthening of the technical and administrative staff of the local authorities to deal with the many open practices that concern, for example, requests for the availability of buildings, including fixed-term recruitment by Provinces and Municipalities, with the latter returning to urban planning. The number of loans to be suspended has been extended. The enterprises will be able to relocate even if the neighboring Province is located in another Region. Policies to support the weak groups with EUR 41 million allocated for 2017, are given shape by accessing the national measure to combat poverty, which takes account above all of the impoverishment of the victims of the earthquake. For self-employed workers, businesses and farmers the possibility of applying for the so-called heavy pay envelope is recognised, regardless of the tax domicile of the substitute tax. There are also soft loans for businesses; the plan to amortize loans and loans for households, micro, small and medium-sized enterprises is allowed to be extended, with a 12-month suspension of payment of the capital part of the instalments. There is an important issue that is being raised by the municipalities concerned, as the ANCI on the press this morning has pointed out. The decree-law provides that for the quota relative to the taxes on the inactible real estate the cover is guaranteed. On the part of the suspended taxes, however, the restart of the payment at the end of the year with installment will be duly covered by the decree-law, as reported also in the Commission by the undersecretary Paola De Micheli, whom I thank for the work done. The way, and therefore our response, could be to assess the final (i.e. the end-of-year) not to apply sanctions to the earthquake-stricken entities which, if necessary, failed to respect the balance between final revenue and final expenditure. Therefore, should cases of crater bodies emerge in the final certification with a negative balance between revenue and final expenditure for 2017 for investments aimed at reconstruction, the sanctioning system will be able to intervene once the financial year is closed. It is, however, possible during this year for municipalities to freely spend what is collected from donations or insurance refunds. This is the heart of the decree-law, a good decree-law, the same that, unfortunately, this morning and in this House, has been the object of exploitation by the oppositions. I am referring specifically to Mr Azzollini's intervention, who did not go into the substance of the measure but emphasized the fact that it was derogations. The derogation - I remind everyone - is the compulsion to a life and a daily life changed from the first event of 24 August. The derogations, I would remind you, are the improvement of legislative systems made on the emergency giving it organicity. We are faced with a drama, the result of an unprecedented event, which marked this country in a profound way, with wounds still to be healed involving thousands of citizens tried even psychologically. Sorry to hear that the work done by the Government and all those responsible for returning to their territories is not valued and that they do not ride the pain, but try to give him a responsible and accomplished response. None of us think that we have exhausted, with this decree-law, the enormous challenge of reconstruction, even psychological. The same President of the Council Gentiloni Silveri said this clearly announcing the next actions of the Government: a fund of over a billion per year for three years for reconstruction. Already resources and funding have been put on the field, we are in fact the third decree-law, only to remember and reaffirm the scope of the emergency, unique and exceptional in proportion and timing with seismic events that have happened almost uninterruptedly. This morning my colleague Stefania Pezzopane recalled that if he had intervened in 2009 as has been done now probably the history of the territory involved then the earthquake would have been different. Today, however, some have heard only words of exploitation for political purposes that do not deserve the citizens, who do not deserve the affected communities. We have all worked from the very first moment, because the reconstruction of these regions is a national challenge, which concerns the whole country. These territories represent the heart of Italy, for its history, art, culture - not by chance the rule of 8 per thousand for its cultural heritage - but also for the role of small and medium-sized enterprises, handicrafts and Made in Italy. The heart and identity of the country that we are reside in these villages and in these towns. Demagogy and the political battle should give way in the face of mourning, suffering, even the courage of those who are trying to rise up and who have the right to feel that the institutions are close to them, just as the institutions have the duty - first of all moral - to put aside the political confrontation, our conflicts, in order to put themselves at the service of the territories and citizens. For these reasons, I declare the Democratic Group's vote in favour. [[Applause from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-04-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-802.ana.u47	There is a delegation of students from the Faculty of Economics at the Free University of Bolzano to attend our work, to which we wish to extend our greetings. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-04-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-802.ana.u48	We shall therefore proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-04-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-802.ana.u49	I refer to the vote on the single article of bill No. 2756, of conversion to law, with amendments, of Decree-Law No. 8 of 9 February 2017, in the text approved by the Chamber of Deputies, on the approval of which the Government has posed the question of trust. I recall that pursuant to Rule 94, second paragraph, of the Constitution and pursuant to Rule 161, paragraph 1, of the Rules of Procedure, the vote on trust will take place by roll-call vote. Each senator called by the Senator Secretary will have to vote before the Presidency. The senators for trust will answer yes; the opposing senators will answer no; the senators who intend to abstain will speak accordingly. I now draw by lot the name of the senator from whom the roll call will begin. (The name of the Senator Ricchiuti is drawn by lot.) I invite the Senator Secretary to proceed with the appeal, starting with Senator Ricchiuti. PEGORER, secretary, makes the appeal. The senators answered: Aiello, Albano, Albertini, Amati, Angioni, Anitori, Astorre Battista, Bencini, Bertuzzi, White, Bianconi, Bonaiuti, Borioli, Bubbico, Buemi Caleo, Cantini, Piacchione, Cardinals, Casini, Ascola, De Biasi, Chiti, Cirinna, Cocincich, Collina, Colucci, Conte, Corsini, Cucca D'Adda, Dalla Zuanna, D'Ascola, De Biasi, Del Barba, Di Biagio, Filippin, Finocchiaro, Firsore, Formigoni, Fornaro, Fravezzi Gatti, Fasiolo, Fatorini, Faveri, Fedeli, Ferrara Elena, Filippi, Fincchiaro, Fissoro, Fornaro, Fornaro, Frangoni, Francozzi The senators: Airola, Alicata, Amidei, Aracri, Arrigoni, Augello, Auricchio, Azzollini Barani, Barozzino, Bernini, Bertorotta, Bignami, Blundo, Boccardi, Bottici, Bruni, Buccarella, Bulgarelli Calderoli, Caliendo, Campanello, Candiani, Cappelletti, Carraro, Casaletto, Castaldi, Catalfo, Ceroni, Cervellini, Ciampolilli, Cioffi, Comaroli, Compagnone, Cotti, Crosio D'Ambrosio Lettieri, De Cristofaro, De Petris, De Pin, Di Maggio, Divina, Donno Endriomazzo Fazzone, Ferrara Mario, Floris Gaetti, Galimberti, Gasparri, Giarnon Marrusso, Giovanardi, Girotto Iurlaro Langella, Lezzi, Liuzzi, Mario Mauzzilini, Mario Mario, Mario, Mario, Mario Mario Mario, Mario, Mangili, Mangili, Mangiglielli, Mantelli, Marini, Marini, Marini The senators are abstaining: Fucksia. (Senator Stephen says he does not take part in the vote.) PRESIDENT. - The debate is I declare the vote closed and invite the Secretary Senators to proceed with the counting of votes. (Secretary Senators proceed to count votes). I declare the result of the roll-call vote by appeal of the sole article of the bill n. 2756, of conversion into law, with amendments, of Decree-Law n. 8 of 9 February 2017, in the text approved by the Chamber of Deputies, on the approval of which the Government has posed the question of trust: [[Senators present 260 Senators voting 258 Majority 130 Favourites 153 Contrars 104 Absent 1]] The Senate approves. All amendments and agendas relating to the text of Decree-Law No 8 are therefore excluded.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-04-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-802.ana.u50	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-04-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-802.ana.u51	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-04-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-802.ana.u52	BOTTICS (M5S). Mr President, yesterday, with the adoption of the measure for setting up the Commission of Inquiry, a small step was taken in this House to try to restore confidence in the banking system, but also in the world of politics. I also ask for another courtesy. Tuscany is the only region excluded from direct access to the guarantee fund for small and medium-sized enterprises. The entrepreneurial fabric of Tuscany is experiencing a deep crisis, but also the Tuscan banks are experiencing the same crisis. The Monte dei Paschi is only a small part of the Tuscan banking system. There is a resolution of the State-Regions Conference that requires that Tuscany can access the national guarantee fund only through the trusts and this does not happen. I therefore ask the Government and the Region of Tuscany to commit themselves. In the Region of Tuscany a motion has just been filed so that in the Conference State-Regions this bond is removed which is not at all of aid to the Tuscan territory. I ask that the Tuscany Region, together with the Government, take a further step to restore lustre to a territory that, after all the scandals that have occurred, deserves it. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-04-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-802.ana.u53	The motions, questions and questions received by the Presidency will be published in Annex B to today's report.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-04-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-802.ana.u54	The Senate will meet again tomorrow, Thursday 6 April, in two public sessions, the first at 9.30 a.m. and the second at 16 a.m., with the following agenda: (See agenda) The sitting was closed at 7.14 p.m.
