ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-792.ana.u1	The sitting was opened at 16:01. The Minutes shall be read. Mr Amati, secretary, read the Minutes of the sitting of the previous day. PRESIDENT. - The debate is Since there were no comments, the Minutes were approved.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-792.ana.u2	The list of senators on leave and absent on assignment received from the Senate, as well as further communications to the Assembly, will be published in Annex B to today's Minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-792.ana.u3	The next item is the question and questions. The first question will be asked 3-0371 on the legislation governing the free profession in local health companies. The representative of the Government may answer this question.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-792.ana.u4	Madam President, I would like to thank the interrogating senators who, in pointing out certain incidents at the Cardinal Massaia Hospital in Asti, which have already been investigated by the judicial authority, allow me, in reality, to clarify the general picture of a particularly complex matter, such as that relating to the intramurary free-professional activity. This activity finds its qualifying expression in the free choice of care and doctor by the citizen and in the guarantee of continuity of care, respecting the real needs of care and the relationship of trust that is inescapable and typical of the medical patient relationship. The complexity of this institute has led the legislator to intervene repeatedly on the subject with the priority objective of ensuring the proper exercise of the free intra-mural profession, as well as to ensure the control and constant monitoring of the exercise of this activity. As is well known the fundamental choice made with the first regulatory intervention, Law No. 120 of 2007, was to place the government and the responsibility of the matter in the hands of the Regions. The subsequent State-Regions agreement of 18 November 2010, in consolidating the principles already provided for in Law No 120 of 2007, introduced further new elements, enhancing in particular the monitoring and control of the free professional activity, as well as the involvement of trade unions and users in the verification phase. Decree-Law n.158 of 2012, converted with amendments in Law n.189 of 2012, is the most recent regulatory intervention in this matter. This reform has become necessary to remedy the persistent and substantial failure of some regions to implement the successive provisions over time. In particular, this measure considered it appropriate to ensure full traceability of performance, by adopting more incisive rules to regulate the so-called enlarged intramoenia, i.e. the one carried out by professionals' studies. The transition to the new regime has essentially foreseen three phases: an extraordinary reconnaissance of the business spaces, in order to verify whether all the activity was attributable to the structures; the preparation and activation of network infrastructures through which to manage all the services, from the reservation to the payment; the adoption of an experimental program in case the internal structures were not sufficient, allowing the professionals to carry out free intra-mural professional activity within their own studies after the conclusion of a special convention. With regard to this last point, in particular, Article 1, paragraph 4-a, of the aforementioned law n. 120 of 2007 provided for the verification of the experimental programme by the Regions and the Autonomous Provinces by 28 February 2015, by means of criteria established with agreement sanctioned by the Permanent Conference for the relations between the State, the Regions and the Autonomous Provinces of Trento and Bolzano. In implementation of the provisions of that rule, the State-Regions Agreement of 19 February 2015 has been established in order to regulate the criteria for the verification of the experimental programme for the free intra-mural profession as an instrument available to the Regions in order to give full implementation to the principles enshrined in the legislation in force in this matter. It should also be noted that, within the framework of the technical health committee referred to in the decree of the President of the Republic No 44 of 2013, a special section called the National Observatory on the state of implementation of hospital adjustment programmes and on the operation of control mechanisms at regional and corporate level has been established, to which the functions exercised by the National Observatory for the free professional activity have been transferred. In particular, this body shall annually carry out specific monitoring on the state of implementation of the intra-mural free professional activity, the findings of which are set out in the report to be submitted to Parliament pursuant to Article 1 (8) of Law No 120 of 2007. Such monitoring shall be carried out at regional and corporate level, taking into account their respective competences and responsibilities, and shall aim to verify the level of compliance with the reference rules and to analyse the governance strategies adopted by the Autonomous Regions and Provinces, including the initiatives and corrective actions taken to eliminate any anomalies or malfunctions. Well, on the basis of the data collected in the framework of the last report for 2014, there has been a general improvement in the level of implementation of the different obligations placed by the legislator in charge of the regions and the business structures, even if there are still, in some territorial realities, malfunctions that need to continue to monitor in order to ensure the definitive overcoming of them. This is about the general framework of the subject and the most comprehensive initiatives undertaken in this regard by the Ministry of Health, before moving on to the specific events reported by the interviewing senators, I think it is useful to anticipate an important clarification on a point that, indeed, is put at the end of the question. I refer to the exercise of the substitute powers governed by Article 1 (7) of Law No 120 of 2007, which the interrogating senators invoke in order to know the specific initiatives adopted by the Ministry of Health in this case. In this regard, I must point out that this provision has been declared unconstitutional precisely in the part in which it provided for substitute powers in the government, having to recognize at the levels of regional and local government the full autonomy reserved to them in this matter by the Constitution. Moreover, the case mentioned in this question shows a responsibility which can be attributed exclusively to the individual doctors involved, since the facts have been denounced by Asti's ASL itself, in the exercise of the checks carried out on the intra-mural free professional activity. Having said that, since the questioning senators ask whether the Ministry of Health is aware of the facts reported and whether, more generally, instruments have been activated, in the local context, to ensure the proper exercise of the intra-mural free profession, I move to an analytical illustration of the facts covered by the question. Following the communication, dated 20 July 2016, by which the prosecutor of the Republic to the court of Asti made known that he had submitted four employees of the ASL of Asti, of which three medical executives of otorinolaryngology and a general nurse, in service at the company structure of otorinolaryngology, as well as a doctor with fixed-term agreement on continuity of care (medical guard), to the precautionary measure of house arrests, the same company of Asti has ordered with its own act the immediate suspension from the service for the duration of the relative measure. Analogous suspension from the professional exercise, for the duration of the precautionary measure, has been arranged by the board of directors of the provincial order of surgeons and dentists of Asti towards the three doctors dependent of the ASL of Asti and the doctor of continuity assistance under conventional regime. The examination of the full text of the order for the enforcement of the coercive measure, which was received by the company on 1 August 2016, revealed, indeed, the circumstance of the involvement of another employee, a professional nurse, who was also in service at the otolaryngology structure, in respect of which, however, no protective measures were applied. In fact, at the same time, the withdrawal of the measure of house arrest against one of the three doctors and the general nurse, as well as the replacement of the aforementioned coercive measure with that of the obligation to submit biweekly to the police, with respect to the remaining two doctors in relation to convention. As a result, Asti's ASL withdrew the suspension, so the employees and the doctor with a fixed-term agreement involved were formally re-entered into service. To date, the general nurse and the professional nurse mentioned are in service at different business structures from the previous ones, while the disciplinary procedures initiated by the ASL of Asti towards the doctor with fixed-term agreement and all the employees involved are currently suspended pending the conclusion of the criminal proceedings. Moreover, for one of the three medical directors, the prosecutor of the Republic of Asti made known the submission of the request for the termination of the criminal proceedings, due to the lack of evidence on the basis of the prosecution. As regards the merits of the facts ascribed to the aforementioned employees and, in particular, the reference contained in the question to abuses in the course of the exercise of free intra-mural professional activities, the ASL of Asti, requested in this regard, has specified the following. Two of the employees involved, suspected of the crime of peculate for having taken away medical material and medicines owned by the company, are medical managers in a non-exclusive relationship, so they can exercise, after hours of service, extra-mural free professional activity, i.e. outside the health facilities of the ASL of Asti, in their own professional studies or in private health facilities not affiliated with the National Health Service. They are not, therefore, doctors with an exclusive relationship, who can exercise, after hours of service, with company authorization, intra-mural free professional activity within the company structures or, in lack of facilities and spaces suitable to the needs related to the performance of the activity, after special agreement with the company, in professional studies or external private health facilities not affiliated with the National Health Service. Another employee involved is medical director...
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-792.ana.u5	Mr Undersecretary, I would ask you to summarize, if you can, because the time available is ten minutes. If necessary, you may hand over the text of your reply to the questioner. , State Secretary for Health. If you like, I can also stop reading and hand over the text to the questioner. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Or you can synthesize its contents, as you think.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-792.ana.u6	I'm going to the conclusions. Finally, in relation to the actions undertaken by ASL in Asti, the Director-General of the Company has wished to reiterate that the exercise of the free intra-mural outpatient professional activity is authorised with managerial determination, at the request of the professional. The free professional activity under the hospitalization scheme is governed by a special managerial determination and is characterized by the user's request for paid benefits. The ASL of Asti then, during 2014, provided for a complete reorganization of the intra-mural free professional activity. This application, also available on the web, allows the authentication of users and the identification of different user profiles. The fees charged to the user have been defined with the individual professionals in order to allow the remuneration of the same, the team, the support staff, as well as the pro-quota costs for the depreciation and maintenance of the equipment, also ensuring the coverage of all the direct and indirect costs incurred by the company. In order to ensure that the use of services rendered under the free profession is an expression of freedom of choice by the citizen, Asti's ASL has provided advertising and information to users, preparing and indicating the routes that regulate and allow access to different services.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-792.ana.u7	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-792.ana.u8	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-792.ana.u9	SIMONI (Mist). Madam President, Mr Undersecretary, ladies and gentlemen, after listening to the answer to my question, I can only say that I am partially satisfied. I shall try to explain briefly the reasons for this in the time allowed to me. First of all, the Ministry does not seem to want to tackle the real problem, which is represented by the different ways of managing intramoenia. This is demonstrated by the data we have available, which only testify that the lack of attention of the Directorates General of the approximately 300 Italian health companies, hospital and territorial, allow, if not even facilitate, phenomena of circumvention of the rules governing the exercise of the free profession in Italy. The monitoring of intramoenia expenditure, presented to the House of Deputies on 26 September, and which the Undersecretary here should therefore know very well, outlines the dimension of the problem. Calabria is the Italian Region where intramoenia benefits seem to be less used and where the average annual expenditure per capita does not reach 5 euros. The most popular one is Emilia-Romagna with over 30 euros. Those who believe that the difference in costs is due to different incomes are wrong. On the other hand, it cannot be argued that the Emilians earn on average six times more than the Calabrians. These differences lie rather in the different extent of the checks carried out on reservations and intramoenia receipts, and I do not think it is difficult to believe. In fact - and I invite you to reflect - the expenditure on private services in Italy exceeds 34 billion per year, while that for intramoenia does not reach 1.3 billion. Where do we spend, then, the difference of almost 32 billion? In private health? No. Simply, the lack of controls and checks by health companies, allows to circumvent the provisions on receipts and makes possible that form of creeping circumvention which in fact subtracts an estimated figure of about 20 billion from the public treasury. The simple and timely application of the existing rules would make Italian citizens a double benefit: on the one hand, it would affect those who make health care a business, done all the more hateful because it is based on the need for health; on the other hand, being able to bring back to the public funds such a substantial amount would allow to expand the services and reduce the tickets; it would reduce in general the cost that the citizen sustains for health. I believe that following this path by the Ministry of Health is not only mandatory but above all a moral imperative for those who are called to fulfil such a high social duty. More control is therefore needed.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-792.ana.u10	The questioning of the jurisdiction of honorary judges follows 2-00247. I call Senator Filippin to illustrate this interrogation.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-792.ana.u11	Madam President, I have to say that this is one of those rare cases where the long time between the deposit of the questioning and the answer allows the questioner to say that he is fully satisfied with the work of the Government - in this case, especially of Parliament - because he has already given rise to the law of delegation. The question concerns the honorary judiciary, starting from the provisions of Article 106, second paragraph, of the Constitution, which states that the law on the judicial order can allow the appointment, even elective, of honorary magistrates for all the functions assigned to individual judges.The Royal Decree of 30 January 1941, n. 12, with judicial order, still in force, provides for various figures of honorary magistrate; according to the original forecasts, the honorary magistrate is a member of the judicial order that performs the functions typical of the judge or the public prosecutor while the adjective "honorary" indicates that he carries out his duties in a non-professional way, since he normally exercises jurisdiction for a fixed period of time without receiving a remuneration, but only an allowance for the activity carried out. With the reforms subsequently implemented, called the single judge's, two new figures were established: the honorary court judge and the honorary deputy prosecutor. The questioning began from the valorization of the role of the honorary magistrates, in particular GOT and VPO, who, because of the necessity and emergency that characterize the judicial organization, have become entrusts in a stable and continuous way of the direct management of numerous entire roles of causes, placing themselves in a collateral position, but subordinate, regarding the work of the magistrates togati; however, considering that from the temporary nature of the assignment - here is the term "honorary" - it follows the lack of every form of insurance and social security, but that the service of justice is essential for a modern state of law, and therefore that the current complexity of socio-economic life obliges to adapt the judicial structures and its organization to the increasing needs of the country. In view of all these problems, the question asked the Minister to act, within his own powers, to redefine the competence of the honorary judiciary in specialized areas of minor complexity or social alarm; asked whether he intended to promote the stabilisation of the honorary judges in the roles of the togata judiciary, or to arrange for the repetition of the temporary posts of the same honorary judges currently in service until reaching the maximum age laid down, after confirmation of suitability at each deadline by the Supreme Council of the judiciary. The questioning continued by asking what initiatives the Government intended to take in order to reach a single statute of the honorary judiciary with uniform discipline with respect to access, training and disciplinary system. Finally, he wondered whether he would consider revising the rules governing the determination of remuneration and recognising benefits of a social security nature consistent with the honorary and temporary nature of the function. Well, this Parliament approved, on 28 April 2016, the law delegation of organic reform of the honorary judiciary and other provisions on the judges of peace, a delegation law that intervenes systematically, providing, among other things, for the unification of the figure of the honorary judge, a statute for the honorary judiciary, the organization of the honorary judiciary, the remuneration, its training, the competences foreseen for it and for the transitional regime and coordination. Therefore, considering the long time elapsed (more than two years) between the deposit of the questioning and its development, it is with great pleasure that the questioner can simply take note that it has been given answer to the problems that had been raised with the aforementioned act of inspection union. I ask the representative of the Government present here if he is in a position to give news on the execution of this provision because the law delegation, as is evident from the term, provided to the Government a commitment to issue the legislative decrees of implementation to be carried out before 14 March 2017. Therefore, I would like to reiterate my satisfaction with the state of implementation of the reform.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-792.ana.u12	The representative of the Government has the right to respond to this question.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-792.ana.u13	Madam President, by means of the act of inspection union under discussion, the Senator, who recalled the regulatory framework of reference and declined the different powers of the honorary magistrates, asked to know what initiatives are being taken to redefine the competence of the honorary judiciary, stabilize its employment relationship, unify its status and recognise adequate social protection. As you know, the question raised is to the priority attention of the Government (in this regard I thank the interrogating senator who has given notice of it and thus avoids me giving some answers, since they have been overcome by the facts) in view of the fundamental and valuable contribution that the honorary judiciary assures the administration of the justice of which I wish, here, to give notice, also considering its important contribution in professionalism. With a view to outlining an effective regulatory framework, delegation law No. 57 of 2016 finally intervened to regulate the matter after numerous measures of extension, with a view to dealing organically with an issue that, for too long, has been eluded. This is another significant fact: after so many years - and I thank both the House and the Senate for this - the delegation law No. 57 of 2016 has been approved that sets an important starting point. In the Official Journal of 31 May 2016 the first legislative decree has already been published, among other things, provided for the maintenance in service for four years, under the current conditions of employment and economic treatment, of the judges of peace, of the honorary judges of the court and of the vice prosecutors honorary in exercise on the date of entry into force of the decree, to the outcome of the procedure of extraordinary confirmation disciplined with the same decree. In order to assess the complex technical profiles, including in relation to remuneration and social security, which the implementation of the delegation entails, in view of its delicate constitutional implications and the issues related to social protection and economic treatment, I requested, by note of 7 February, an opinion to the Council of State pursuant to Article 14 of Royal Decree No 1054 of 20 June 1942. The delegation law no. 57 of 2016, in fact, takes charge of the delegated legislator to prepare, among other things, a transitional discipline for the honorary magistrates in service at the time of the entry into force of the legislative decree or the last of the legislative decrees issued in implementation of the delegation. In view of the fact that most of the honorary magistrates in service have been affected, since 2002, by annual regulatory measures to extend, adopted by way of derogation from the legal provisions of the honorary judiciary referred to in Royal Decree No 12 of 1942 and Law No 374 of 1991, it has been proposed the need to assess whether stabilisation measures, with the attribution of the statute of the public service, are compatible on the one hand with the purposes and the ratio of the delegation law and, on the other hand, with the overall planning of the internal order, with particular reference to Articles 106, first paragraph, and 97, last paragraph, of the Constitution. With a view to ensuring the widest possible institutional cooperation, on 2 March, additional elements of assessment were sent to the Council of State, by the Cabinet Office and signed by the Minister, with a view to the complete recognition of the profiles involved in the matter, including in relation to European Union law. In the mores of the acquisition of the requested opinion and without prejudice to the willingness to provide any useful contribution of evaluation to the Council of State, the theme of the honorary judiciary remains at the center of the action of the Ministry. There are, in fact, specific interlocations with the European Commission in order to verify, also in that forum, all the profiles of compatibility of the regulatory solutions practicable with the supranational set-up, and with the Supreme Council of the judiciary, in relation to the recruitment procedures of the body of self-government. As part of the initiatives aimed at identifying the most effective regulatory instruments to ensure the contemporaneousness of the values that the matter involves, on 15 February the Minister of Justice met a delegation of the prosecutors of the Republic, together with representatives of the Higher Council of the judiciary and the National Association of Judges, in order to receive contributions and proposals, aimed at adopting measures that take into account both the expectations of the judges currently in service, and the needs of functionality of the judicial offices. In that forum, the Guardasigilli represented the broadest opening of the Government to explore also the possibility of stabilisation of the honorary magistrates who have long served in favor of the State, inviting the National Association of Judges to express their assessments on the proposed solutions. This is a point on which the Ministry awaits a response from the Council of State that must express an opinion and this must be in accordance with the regulations provided for in our law, demonstrating that the Ministry has no kind of closure in the face of more organic solutions of the honorary judiciary, taking into account the role, commitment and function it has been carrying out for several years for the justice service. The fact that the prosecutors themselves wanted to request and arrange a meeting with the Minister demonstrates the importance of the role they play in the justice service. The Government is, therefore, committed to defining an appropriate statute for the honorary judiciary in implementation of the delegation law No. 57 of 2016, without neglecting possible, further solutions that allow to assess, in compliance with the regulatory framework of reference, the needs of the honorary magistrates who, by virtue of the repeated extensions of the law, serve in the administration of justice. In conclusion, I would like to stress that for years the extensions have been going on. Today, however, there is an important delegation law, a first delegated decree has been made and we must work on others. After the opinion of the Council of State we will work with this point of balance between the needs of the judicial function and the needs and rights of the honorary judiciary, but also taking into account supranational, European and our internal sources, hence the Constitution and ordinary laws. The new law certainly defines a status of the honorary magistrate that has been missing for years and that we are trying to put into place today.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-792.ana.u14	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-792.ana.u15	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-792.ana.u16	FILIPPIN (PD). Madam President, of course, I have already expressed, in the illustration of the questioning, the satisfaction of the questioner with regard to its content, namely the response to the request for a single statute of the honorary judiciary; I can only welcome the fact that the Government is also working on its implementation. I recommend prompt times, because I remember that the deadline foreseen in the delegation law is for May 14, 2017; net of the resolution of the problems concerning, in particular, the honorary magistrates currently in service - whose maintenance at the service of the country is fundamental - it is necessary, however, that the delegation law is effectively implemented and, in particular, you arrive in a short time to a definition of the statute of the honorary judiciary, which by its very characteristic (not by chance I mentioned the constitutional source of its institution) is honorary and, as such, different and distinct from the professional or togata judiciary. Of course, all the demands, all the meetings and everything that is needed to ensure the proper functioning of the justice machine are well received, but we cannot ignore our constitutional rules and what the legislator provided for in the delegation law passed last year.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-792.ana.u17	Following is the question 3-03376 on amateur sports associations The representative of the Government has the right to answer this question.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-792.ana.u18	Madam President, with the question 3-03376 of 10 January 2017, Senator Angioni asked the Minister for Sport, Mr Luca Lotti, to report on the opportunity to speak to the CONI, in order to re-evaluate the resolution of 20 December 2016, n. 1566, with which the National Olympic Committee drew up the list of sporting disciplines admitted to registration in the register of amateur sports associations and societies. It should be recalled in this regard that the Minister for Sport is not recognised as a general power of control over the acts of the ICON. Nor is it recognized by other institutions. The National Olympic Committee is a public association with functional autonomy. The doctrine also thinks about the self-administration regime. The Minister for Sport, on the other hand, has a power of control over certain specific acts. In particular, pursuant to Article 13 of Law No 242 of 1999 and Article 1, paragraph 3, Law No 138 of 31 January 1992, the Minister supervises only the provisions relating to address and control and the provisions concerning rules of operation and organisation. In the light of these considerations, it is clear that the Minister for Sport has no control over the resolution which is the subject of the question proposed by Senator Angioni. In fact, the act by which the CONI determines which sports disciplines can be admitted to the registration in the register of amateur sports associations and societies, although it is aimed at a plurality of recipients, retains that character of punctuality that excludes the general nature of the acts of address. This decision, therefore, is not subject to the regime provided for in Article 13 of Law No 242 of 1999. Without prejudice to the above, the Minister shares the honourable Member's concern about the difficulties that the ICON resolution might cause for associations that carry out activities not included in the list of sports disciplines, such as pilates and yoga. For this reason, the Minister for Sport, in the exercise of his eminently political functions, reserves the right in the future to monitor the conduct and control of the National Olympic Committee, as provided for in the law that I have just mentioned.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-792.ana.u19	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-792.ana.u20	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-792.ana.u21	ANGIONES (PD). Madam President, I would like to thank Mr Ferri, who rightly points out that the Minister for Sport has no power to enter into the substance of the deliberations of the Council. I believe, however, that this sharing in the merits of the question by the Minister is also significant in order to raise an issue in an institutionally impeccable relationship with the CONI. More and more we should encourage the sports activity of Italian citizens and the practice of all sports activities, which are certainly tools for achieving one's own physical well-being, but in many cases also a way to socialize and therefore to ensure greater psychic well-being of people. For several years, even in our country, we have been witnessing the phenomenon of sports practice in the elderly, especially with the activities set out in the question (pilates, yoga and the whole so-called wellness area). I believe that these activities should be further encouraged by the ICON. I am satisfied with the responsibility of the Minister for Sport, whom I would continue to urge that the situation be monitored. Since we are talking about the danger that thousands of sports associations and clubs will be able to close as a result of the failure to apply the rules on decontribution for amateur sports, I think it is good not only to continue to raise the alarm, but also to do everything possible to prevent this risk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-792.ana.u22	Following is the question 3-03523 on the alleged violation of the sports code and behavior of the CONI by the Fitarch. The representative of the Government may answer this question.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-792.ana.u23	Madam President, with the question 3-03523 of 23 February 2017, Senator Blundo and other senators asked the Minister for Sport, Mr Luca Lotti, to report on the judicial case involving the former president of the regional section Emilia-Romagna della Fitarco (Italian Archery Federation), sentenced with a final sentence for sexual offences against minors. In particular, the Minister is asked to deepen the reasons why the Fitarch has only dealt with the radiation of the subject concerned in June 2016, after more than fifteen months from the passage in court of the sentence. Well, the Minister for Sport represents to the questioning senators that he is not in possession of any coercive or substitute power vis-à-vis the justice bodies of the sports federations. As a result, the Minister has no instrument capable of meeting the possible delay with which the federal prosecutors of the individual sports federations exercise their disciplinary power vis-à-vis their members. In this regard, regardless of the case at hand, it should be noted that the person responsible for monitoring and correcting the defects in the functioning of federal prosecutors is the general prosecutor of sport who, pursuant to Article 12-b of the Statute of the CONI (and Article 51 of the new Code of Sports Justice of the CONI) has the power to invoke to himself the investigative activity of the individual federations if omissions occur such as to prejudice disciplinary action. The Minister is very sensitive to the preservation of the image of the sports world and can only fully share the decision of the Fitarch to disbar a member guilty of facts incompatible with the values of sport. However, even if the disciplinary measure is untimely, the Minister prefers not to interfere with the functioning of the justice bodies of sports federations, whose autonomy, on the other hand, he is first called upon to guarantee.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-792.ana.u24	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-792.ana.u25	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-792.ana.u26	BLUNDO (M5S). Madam President, I would like to thank Mr Ferri for coming to respond to the question as soon as possible. I would also like to thank him for the fact that the answer indicates a competent body - we are pleased to know that this person exists - as the General Prosecutor of Sport, who is responsible for examining and taking appropriate measures in relation to the events that have taken place. It is in fact that a sports company connected to the CONI has shown that it has not promptly protected the children who attend it and are involved in its activity. Given that now, with the appointment of a Minister for Sport, there are a role and function that were previously lacking, one must at least investigate and understand why this delay has occurred, beyond the purely legal functions that can be carried out by the person in charge, namely the General Prosecutor for Sport. I believe that it would have been appropriate to understand, or at least to take information about the management group which has omitted or delayed, even in order - if necessary - to assess further measures for the protection of the ICON itself. In fact, I believe that it is not enough to give the powers to the general prosecutor of sport alone, since the manager in question had already been condemned; I believe that there is only to implement what is enshrined in the regulations and in a legal pronunciation.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-792.ana.u27	Following is the question 3-03600 on the relationship of collaboration between the Italian Association of Culture and Sport (AICS) and the National Association against discrimination from sexual orientation (ANDDOS). The representative of the Government may answer this question.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-792.ana.u28	Madam President, with Question No 4-07066 of 23 February 2017, Senator Maurizio Gasparri asked the Minister for Sport, Mr Luca Lotti, to report on the relationship between the Italian Sports Culture Association (AICS) and the National Association against Sexual Discrimination (ANDDOS). In this respect, the Minister represents to the questioner that AICS is a sports promotion body recognised by CONI, which works to promote cultural elevation and improve the well-being and psycho-physical condition of citizens, drawing on the ideals of the Constitution, the Charter of Human Rights, the Charter of Fundamental Rights of the European Union and the UN Convention on the Rights of the Child. In order to achieve its objectives of association, AICS is dedicated not only to the organization of sports activities, but also to social, cultural, educational, tourist and environmental promotion, promoting the fight against social exclusion, racism, xenophobia, intolerance, discomfort, marginalization, loneliness and promoting the culture of civil coexistence, equal opportunities, cultural, ethnic, religious, gender differences, the protection of linguistic diversity, as well as freedom of sexual orientation. Coming to the subject of the question, it must be said that the statute of AICS allows the institution to conclude agreements and conventions with bodies and associations that aim at institutional purposes equivalent to those just listed (see article 5, paragraph 7, of the statute of the Italian Association for Culture and Sport). It is precisely this, therefore, the perspective in which the collaboration between the Italian Association for Culture and Sport and the National Association against Discrimination by Sexual Orientation must be looked at: as well as the Italian Association for Culture and Sport, in fact, the National Association against Discrimination by Sexual Orientation is also engaged in the fight against all forms of discrimination and repression and in the promotion of the free development of human identity, without distinctions of sex and sexual orientation. Therefore, unlike what was highlighted in the question, which spoke of "obvious problem of compatibility," it is entirely acceptable to choose the two associations to sign a protocol of understanding (respecting July 2015), in which to identify a common path in the fight against discrimination linked to sexual orientation. Finally, the Minister for Sport wishes to stress that the clubs associated with the National Association against discrimination against sexual orientation are not included in the National Register of Amateur Sports Associations held at the CONI (see in this regard the resolution of 20 December 2016, n. 1566) and that, therefore, they do not receive (and I would like to stress it here) any state contribution through the National Olympic Committee.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-792.ana.u29	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-792.ana.u30	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-792.ana.u31	Gasparri (FI-PdL XVII). Madam President, I am greatly dissatisfied, and I would like, for two reasons, to express my solidarity with Mr Ferri. The first reason is that he is forced to act as Lotti, although he is Undersecretary for Justice, with a personal curriculum that highlights him in the world of institutions and the judiciary, in such a way that he should spare him these humiliations. The second reason I'm in solidarity with Undersecretary Ferri is that he read some delirious things, that he pulled out Lotti's office. This sports promotion organization is also concerned with fighting, as you said (i.e. as you were told), loneliness and promoting coexistence (and fighting loneliness is appreciable), to the extent that you have affiliated with this organization the ANDDOS. I don't know if you, Undersecretary Ferri, have heard of it, since Lotti's office has given you a piece of paper and sent you here, which I am further supportive of. In fact, you can certainly send another to answer the questions, because the Rules of Procedure allow it, but it is not very elegant. This association is called into question because homosexual prostitution practices took place within its premises. So the AICS (and evidently the CONI who must watch over AICS and the Minister who, in some way, must watch over CONI and AICS) considers in some way compatible with the fight against loneliness and with the initiative for coexistence that the ANDDOS exercises child prostitution. I have asked questions on the issue in general concerning the National Anti-Racial Discrimination Office (UNAR), which is so anti-discrimination that it is financed by this organisation that it promotes homosexual prostitution. If he promoted that heterosexual, it would've been bad anyway. Of course, from this point of view we have no distinctions. Undersecretary Boschi, who has responsibility for this matter, flees with cowardice. Boschi should resign for this scandalous affair. But Boschi has entered into a sort of press silence and parliamentary silence. And I renew here the request for your resignation for the UNAR scandal. Do not believe the Boschi that to call some of my party colleagues to pity goodness and benevolence save you from the controversy and its responsibilities. In fact, the more you call people to avoid attacks the more we will do. The Woods must be ashamed of this. As for Lotti, whose only speech we have heard recently on the occasion of the motion of distrust of him, you speak sometimes. Do not abuse the availability of a magistrate, a politician, a man of government such as his friend undersecretary Ferri. Come and answer him. Lotti has enormous power, but the only political speech he remembers was that of self-defense that he did in this House. He could have come to answer this question. Mr Lotti must be ashamed of his political career, of the protection against this ANDDOS and the AICS that protected the ANDDOS, of which, moreover, he does not even assume responsibility, sending here a misso dominico too high for the mission to which he was called, with a leaflet - read it again, Undersecretary Ferri - frankly ridiculous: the fight against loneliness and in favour of coexistence. Very well, it means that as far as AICS and CONI are concerned I will also ask the president of CONI, who I esteem as I esteem the Undersecretary Ferri, while I esteem much less Lotti. I will ask for this answer, written by AICS, which is shameful, Undersecretary Ferri: it is a shameful and frightening answer. That's why Lotti didn't come, because obviously, between Consip, UNAR, ANDDOS and AICS, all these acronyms create confusion, but not so much as to read that stuff in Parliament looking people in the face. I am once again in solidarity with you, Mr. Undersecretary, and I will protest in all quarters about Lotti's fugitives. So much in the Senate Chamber at the end of the day has been well treated: it has had support votes and there has also been someone like me who has also told him the truth today. I don't do it as an interposed person because I don't entrust you with this task, because my respect for you is greater than what Lotti had for you, but later I will send you my speech by e-mail: he will have an email too or I will look for someone at the Council who will give it to me.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-792.ana.u32	"Governo.it"
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-792.ana.u33	The motions, questions and questions received by the Presidency will be published in Annex B to today's report.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-792.ana.u34	The Senate will meet again in two public sessions on Tuesday 28 March, the first at 11 a.m. and the second at 4.30 p.m., with the following agenda: (See agenda) The sitting was closed at 16.54 p.m.
