ParlaMint-IT_2017-07-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-860.ana.u1	The sitting was opened at 11.02 p.m. The Minutes shall be read. Mr SIBILIA, secretary, read the Minutes of the afternoon sitting on 13 July.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-07-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-860.ana.u2	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-07-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-860.ana.u3	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-07-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-860.ana.u4	COMAROLI (LN-Aut). Madam President, I would like to ask for the vote on the Minutes, subject to a quorum check. Verification of quorum
ParlaMint-IT_2017-07-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-860.ana.u5	I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators, by electronic procedure. (The request is supported). I therefore call on the senators to make their presence known by electronic means. (Follows the quorum check.) The Senate has a quorum. Resumption of the debate on the Minutes I put the Minutes to the vote. It's approved.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-07-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-860.ana.u6	The list of senators on leave and absent on assignment received from the Senate, as well as further communications to the Assembly, will be published in Annex B to today's Minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-07-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-860.ana.u7	I would warn you that qualified votes can be taken in the course of today's sitting by electronic means. Therefore, from this moment the period of 20 minutes from the notice provided for in Article 119, paragraph 1, of the Regulation begins (11:08 hours).
ParlaMint-IT_2017-07-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-860.ana.u8	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-07-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-860.ana.u9	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-07-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-860.ana.u10	Gasparri (FI-PdL XVII). Madam President, I am speaking on the order of business on behalf of the Forza Italia Group, also taking the opportunity of the presence of representatives of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and International Cooperation and Defence, to ask the Presidency, even after any Conference of the Leaders, to schedule for the next few days a speech in the House of the Government, the Presidency of the Council or, at least, representatives of the Ministries of Foreign Affairs, Defence and the Interior, because we usually hold meetings on the eve of the European Summits during which the President of the Council provides information and Parliament votes resolutions and gives directions. On 27 July, in fact, the agreement for Operation Sophia and all the related Triton affair will expire, so there will be, as we read from the newspapers, summits and meetings. Preparatory meetings of various kinds are taking place: in Tallinn in recent days, there has been a meeting of Ministers of the Interior of the European Union who discussed non-governmental organisations, the problem of immigration, arrivals, landings, issues that dominate the news and also parliamentary activities. The Senate is well entitled to ask for a preventive intervention by the Government, as it is a seat where the issue has been widely discussed and is the only seat where there has been an act of direction, moreover assumed unanimously by the Senate Defence Commission, in relation to the activities of NGOs and the issue of immigration. The President of the Commission, Mr Latorre, and we, too, have all been responsible for a debate which has led to the adoption of a unanimous document, which has led, not by chance, to all the action on the regulation of NGOs and the debate that is taking place. It seems to us absolutely logical and correct - and I submit the proposal to the Groups - that there should be a comparison in this House before 27 July, which I see as the date of expiry and renewal of this Sophia agreement. I also read that Italy, which I appreciate, has taken a more vigorous attitude than in the past, calling for the revision of these interventions and of Operation Triton. In short, there is a whole series of issues that I do not want to explain here because my speech is on the order of business and not on the substance. I believe there is time, also according to the timetable of work. I am not here to make proposals but if the decisive meeting is 27, which is Thursday next week, I think we can find time for intervention in this House, perhaps at the level of the Presidency of the Council or at least of the Ministries managing these dossiers, which are different: foreign, of course; the interior, of course; defence for its aspects, because operations are carried out by military vessels. I think it would be useful for Parliament to give the Government a mandate and have a prior discussion as is the case at European summits, which are often routine, while these deadlines do not concern the Council of Heads of State or Government, but I think they are even more decisive, given the content. Having unanimously approved the Senate an address document, then having in the Chamber a preventive confrontation with the Government could strengthen - I also say to the Subsecretaries - the mandate of the Government of the Italian Republic, which could thus appear at those tables even stronger and more authoritative with what is an indication of Parliament. The request is therefore to schedule, in due form, such an initiative in this House. I repeat that the deadline is July 27th: today is July 18th and, therefore, we have all the time and the way to do so, in appropriate ways and also in a serious and, I hope, constructive way for the security of our borders, our ports and our country. [[Applause from Senators Alicata and Rizzotti.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-07-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-860.ana.u11	Senator Gasparri, your request will be examined by the Presidency.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-07-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-860.ana.u12	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-07-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-860.ana.u13	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-07-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-860.ana.u14	Mr Calderoli (LN-Aut). Madam President, I am speaking in support of the request made by Vice-President Gasparri and I also explain why. Madam President, we should be here in Parliament, that is to say the point where there is the greatest clarity on the part of the Government and the Members of Parliament with regard to the Italian people. Recently, compared to Operation Triton, we have seen a discovery, made for a few weeks or a few months, for which we saw all the so-called refugees and asylum seekers being brought to Italy as if it were an imposition of Europe; it has emerged, instead, that this came from the request of Italy that all ships, whatever flag they beat, bring refugees or irregular immigrants to Italy. I believe that this is a huge responsibility of the Italian Government, in the people of the President of the Renzi Council, the then Foreign Minister Gentiloni and the Interior Minister Alfano. Next to this truth, which has been hidden from us, there is another one: Operation Sophia. As Vice President Gasparri recalled, Operation Sophia expires on July 27, but it is the biggest ball you could say to the world: it is an operation that should have operated to counter the transport of illegal immigrants from Libya to Italy, to the point that, under the aegis of the UN, you could go to sink the boats also on the Libyan soil, and it has become, in fact, the umpteenth ambulance, taxis or as the devil you want to call it, to bring the emigrants to Italy. At this point, the Government has a parliamentary mandate: Operation Sophia, as it had been set up, was based on presuppositions of defence and not of continuous help: we return the operation to its original intent, in order to ensure that, with the agreement of the UN and finally also of Libya, we do not continue to transform this Strait into a bridge, so we all go to welcome less than the refugees, because the real refugees, in the end, are only 5%. The rest are not economic immigrants, but illegal illegal immigrants. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-07-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-860.ana.u15	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-07-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-860.ana.u16	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-07-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-860.ana.u17	SANTANGELO (M5S). Madam President, the 5 Star Movement calls for the convening of a meeting of the Leaders to put the Senate in a position to discuss, before the expiry of the Sophia mission, an act of parliamentary origin, as it was done, in an absolutely constructive and productive manner, by the Senate Defence Commission. I would like to ask that the Conference of Leaders be convened as soon as possible so that all groups can develop proposals that can help and support the Government in this regard.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-07-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-860.ana.u18	The Presidency is responsible for returning these requests.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-07-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-860.ana.u19	The next item is the debate on motions 1-00405 by Senator Cotti and other senators, abbreviated pursuant to Rule 157 (3) of the Rules of Procedure, 1-00739 (text 2), tabled by Senator De Petris and other senators, 1-00795 (text 2), tabled by Senator Cotti and other senators, 1-00799, presented by Senator Centinaio and other senators, 1-00801, presented by Senator Manassero and other senators, and 1-00817, presented by Senator Fornaro and other senators, on the proliferation of nuclear weapons. I call Senator Cotti, to explain motion 405.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-07-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-860.ana.u20	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, this is a motion which has been lying in the drawers of the Senate for at least two years, which calls on the Italian Government to ensure that the F‐35 aircraft, which is being built, are not equipped with nuclear weapons. In fact, it is expected that on board each F‐35 aircraft (I remember that Italy is expected to purchase 90) there are two B61-12 type nuclear bombs: these are bombs belonging to the United States which, according to agreements of the Atlantic Alliance, can also be installed on board other NATO nations that do not own nuclear weapons. I would like to point out that the motion before us, which was signed, among other things, by senators from eight parliamentary groups, does not go into the substance of the F-35 project: we have already presented other motions on this project and held a debate in the Senate that has already given its results. We are not therefore returning to the topic whether or not it is appropriate to participate in the project of the F-35; on this everyone has his ideas and the ideas and opposition of the 5 Star Movement are also known. This motion concerns only one point: should we or should we not install nuclear bombs on board these planes? Since each of these nuclear bombs B61-12 has a destructive power equal to almost twenty times the bomb that exploded on Hiroshima, we should meditate if our defense model can truly conceive of something like this: put two power bombs equal to twenty times that of Hiroshima aboard aircraft that should serve for our defense. If we were to do a survey among Italians, I doubt that less than 90% would approve of the line we are proposing here, namely not to equip our F-35 with these weapons, even considering what has happened to the UN in recent weeks, with the adoption of a treaty - we will talk about it in subsequent motions - which makes illegal all nuclear weapons in the world. Sooner or later we will also have to deal with this Treaty. For the time being, since the installation of these bombs should take place at the end of this decade and we still have time to plan how we need to equip our planes, we have plenty of time to decide not to acquire the software and hardware requirements that should handle nuclear bombs on board these planes or to re-evaluate the whole issue. In any case, we are also ready to reformulate the request for non-acquisition of hardware and software requirements, possibly by changing it with a commitment not to install nuclear bombs on these aircraft unless there is an explicit approval of Parliament and we are open to any requests to that effect by the Government. The goal must be this: it is not with nuclear bombs that a country defends itself. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I would remind my fellow Members that there is quota for the debate on these measures, so I would ask you to keep to the timetable. I call the Senator de Petris to explain motion No 739 (text 2).
ParlaMint-IT_2017-07-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-860.ana.u21	Madam President, let me say, before I explain it, that unfortunately the motion had been tabled, along with others, in time to give an orientation before the UN Assembly, but the debate has been postponed several times and this has not happened, so today we are debating the motion after the vote at the UN General Assembly on 7 July. But, of course, the motion will help us to take a step forward. No one can deny that the presence and subsistence in the world of nuclear weapons poses a threat to the survival of humanity itself and, therefore, it would be the interest of all the peoples of the earth to make efforts and to implement procedures, treaties and commitments to finally come to the ban of such weapons. Article VI of the Treaty on the Non-Proliferation of Nuclear Weapons, ratified by our country in 1975, commits each party to pursue negotiations in good faith in order to define, as soon as possible, effective measures leading to the cessation of the nuclear arms race and therefore to nuclear disarmament. According to the opinion of the International Court of Justice of The Hague of 8 July 1996, the threat or use of nuclear weapons is unlawful under international law. Although the Court does not wish to comment on the extreme case of legitimate self-defense, it is also made clear that States must, in any case, respect international humanitarian law. Each of the militarily non-nuclear states which is part of the Nuclear Non-Proliferation Treaty (NPT) shall undertake not to receive nuclear weapons or other explosive nuclear devices from anyone. Italy, contrary to this obligation and Article 26 of the Vienna Convention on the Law of the Treaties of 23 May 1969, as is well known, still makes its territory available for the installation, transit, possession and use of nuclear weapons, in implementation of agreements with the United States and in accordance with the so-called NATO nuclear sharing. The General Assembly of the United Nations, with the vote of 23 December 2016 on Resolution 41, has launched a new path to implement the objective of the Non-Proliferation Treaty (NPT), through the establishment of legally binding instruments for the prohibition of nuclear weapons. On 7 July 2017 - a matter on which we had prepared ourselves in time, but the motions to commit the government were not discussed - the UN General Assembly approved the Final Nuclear Weapons Ban Treaty, under very strong pressure from many international organisations. 122 countries voted in favour, but unfortunately there is no Italy among them. The absence of the major nuclear powers (USA, Russia, France) and NATO member countries, of course, has weighed heavily. Italy has adapted to the wishes of other countries, especially the United States and NATO. It is clear that the adoption of the Treaty is certainly not the solution to the problem, partly because unfortunately the UN has been going through a long time, a period certainly not happy, but it is a very important step, which would be absolutely fundamental to implement. With the motion on the agenda, therefore, we ask the Government, even if Italy has not pronounced itself on 7 July, to ratify, after the date of 20 September 2017, when the ratification process begins, the Treaty for the ban on nuclear weapons, also in order to ensure its effective entry into force, which, as is known, will take place only after the ratification by 50 countries. At the same time we ask to start a path that leads to the liberation of our territory from the nuclear weapons present in the bases and the Italian ports and therefore to free our populations from these servitudes, that they are not simply military, but that they involve also the presence of nuclear weapons on our territory despite being engaged from the TNP to not accommodate them. As I conclude, I know that the Government will try to say that the nuclear arms ban treaty is not really a step forward and that it would also mean a reduction in security controls; we know perfectly well that this is not the case. I therefore appeal to the Commission - and of course we hope the House will be unanimous on this - to commit our country to ratify, after 20 September, the Nuclear Weapons Ban Treaty. [[Applause from Senator Petraglia.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-07-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-860.ana.u22	I call Senator Cotti to explain motion No. 795 (text 2).
ParlaMint-IT_2017-07-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-860.ana.u23	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, we have come to talk about the motions on the Treaty which makes all nuclear weapons in the world illegal, which was adopted last Friday 7 July in New York. I was personally present and have followed all the stages of this historic approval which, after the treaties that have already made biological and chemical weapons illegal, now adds this other component towards a progressive disarmament of humanity by declaring also nuclear weapons illegal. It is a treaty that has been approved by 122 states at the UN, and among them there are no NATO states, just those in possession of nuclear weapons. What is the fastest and safest process to truly achieve the result of world disarmament is not known to us, but surely we are given to know that the previous Nuclear Non-Proliferation Treaty, which is about nuclear weapons, was adopted - I would like to remind you - in 1968. If we were to expect nuclear disarmament from this Treaty, we were abundantly disappointed, because Article 6 of the Nuclear Non-Proliferation Treaty, which stated that there should be a start on negotiations to eliminate the nuclear weapons already in existence, did not actually work very well: the nations that had nuclear weapons still have many, although not all, and since 1968 there have been new states that have nuclear weapons (there have been nine). The motion that we are tabling here calls for us to accede to this legally binding treaty to ban nuclear weapons, in which Italy has not participated, but given the great success and the decisive approval of such a large number of states, it is obvious that the path is traced towards the affirmation that nuclear weapons must not and cannot be used. I would like to remind you that nuclear weapons, by their type, even if they are of more limited power, never strike only the target to which they are directed, but cause enormous damage to anyone who lives within a certain radius from the point where they should be used. Nuclear weapons certainly no longer carry out any function of balance between powers, even since the world changed after the collapse of the Berlin Wall, but they are only a constant danger of possible accidents and of possible uncriteria by the Head of State of one of these nine powers that possess them and that could in the future make a reckless use of them, causing very serious damage to humanity. I believe that Italy should take this step of accession to the Treaty, which will mean - it must be made clear - that the US nuclear bombs we hold in Ghedi and Aviano should also be abandoned, because the disposal of these bombs is practically compulsory and should be completed within one month of Italy's accession to the Treaty. These bombs are incompatible with this Treaty, but they were not necessarily incompatible with the 1968 Nuclear Non-Proliferation Treaty. I believe that we cannot fail to adhere to a motion like this, which aligns Italy with the vast majority of the powers and the world population, which does not want nuclear weapons.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-07-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-860.ana.u24	I give the floor to Senator Divine to illustrate motion No. 799.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-07-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-860.ana.u25	Madam President, we cannot classify every issue as positive or negative, in such an aseptic way. If we think about civil nuclear, for example, we cannot say that everything is positive or that everything is negative. The problem is how power stations may work and how nuclear deterrents are used, in this military case. We have seen that the major powers have always used nuclear military arsenals precisely for the purpose of deterrence. If we were to do an aseptic analysis, without emotion, we must say that nuclear weapons have helped to maintain a substantial climate of peace on the planet since 1945. What worries us, if anything, is the fact that they are approaching nuclear power, while others in part have already reached it, countries that do not have our culture of state strategy or rationality and that are completely removed from the Western criteria. We must also say that the reasons that have led us to join the Atlantic Alliance and to maintain American nuclear weapons on our territories have not failed at all. All the more so, we remember that nothing was imposed on us at all, but it was the European countries that asked, indeed in due course, for the placing on the European continent of American nuclear weapons. There are doubts as to whether the United States' interest in global European security will be diminished. Well, this ventilated hypothesis is already causing, both in Germany and in other countries, a debate on whether to have its own national nuclear deterrent. The risk, therefore, of a potential withdrawal of American nuclear weapons in Europe would not be a good thing, because it would lead to a national nuclear re-armament and we would all be forced, including Italy, to enter the circuit and ask ourselves what future the European continent should have on the common defence front. We must also look with great concern at the deterioration of the situation in the Far East. We are talking about Korea, which at this point pushes another nation, namely Japan, to think about the acquisition of nuclear weapons. We cannot believe that Japan, which is close to Korea, after a series of hypothetical provocative attacks, can remain at the mercy of the Korean Government, which - alas - we now know from whom and how it is directed and managed. An absence of the American nuclear umbrella would also have consequences in Italy. We should ask ourselves, but we should probably engage in new security policy choices. We have not understood - but we have two Subsecretaries present in this Chamber - what our country's position is on the hypothetical Europeanisation of the French nuclear system. And let's remember that they are the most advanced. We therefore call on our Government to do everything possible to weaken what seems to be a driving force at this juncture to enlarge and modernise nuclear arsenals; to use our strategic position to enable the nuclear powers to dialogue and lead them to these positions; to commit our country to work towards our allies - Germany for its proximity and Japan for issues of Atlantic alliance - to reflect on the opportunity to equip themselves with nuclear arsenals. We also ask that we do not give up the current American offer, that is, the US offer, to guarantee its own cover, which is no longer that of the past, namely the hypothetical anti-Warsaw Pact operation, that is, anti-Russia, having completely changed the scenario. We would also like to know from the Government what our position is if the European nuclear deterrent on a French basis were to start, whether we are planning to take action or whether our path will be different. [[Applause from Senator Centinario]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-07-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-860.ana.u26	I call Senator Manassero to explain motion No 801.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-07-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-860.ana.u27	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, there is no doubt that the proliferation of nuclear weapons is still one of the greatest threats to international peace and security. As is well known, the NPT is the basis of the international system of nuclear non-proliferation and has three fundamental objectives: nuclear non-proliferation, i.e. the limitation of the militarily nuclear countries to those provided for in the Treaty, which coincide with the five permanent members of the Security Council; nuclear disarmament, in a framework of security balanced with the relative commitment of the five countries concerned; the development of peaceful uses of nuclear technology. The Treaty has been in force since 5 March 1970 and its implementation provides for a review conference every five years. The review cycle to be completed in 2020 has just begun, with the first session of the Preparatory Conference held in Vienna from 2 to 12 May. It is an agreement that Italy has ratified since 1975 and, therefore, a long-term commitment for our country that, especially with regard to defence and security policies, has always made the consolidation of multilateral institutions and instruments one of its fundamental choices for the protection of stability. There are two basic comments on today's scenario. The first is that nuclear proliferation continues to pose a risk in the international context: we have the example of North Korea, which continues to pose a threat to international peace and security with the active pursuit of a military, nuclear and missile program. The second observation - as we have seen for several years now - relates to the state of security conditions in today's context and to the new fragility of international relations, which has led to a loss of capacity for governance of the collective security system, which with its limitations, defects and errors of the past has allowed for a long time to strengthen the instruments for multilateral crisis management. These are complex discussions involving not only individual states but also alliances as a whole. Therefore, a confrontation made and fully aware of the issues under discussion cannot be reduced to the technical characteristics of a single weapon structure, as is claimed in one of the motions presented. I believe that, as this is the case, it is quite clear on which path we intend to pursue. We are about the accession of the great democracies to a joint programme to put the United Nations decision, international law and the Nuclear Non-Proliferation Treaty at the centre of its action. This, of course, does not forget the inevitable need for all states, including nuclear powers, to commit themselves to the implementation of the obligations of the Nuclear Non-Proliferation Treaty in all three of its fundamental objectives, because multilateral instruments, today more than ever, are the only way to cope with today's difficulties and complexity. Therefore, with regard to the Nuclear Non-Proliferation Treaty, it is necessary to continue to promote a progressive and balanced approach to nuclear disarmament, taking account of the security balance, in accordance with the obligations of the Nuclear Non-Proliferation Treaty, with the ultimate objective of a world without nuclear weapons. [[Applause from the PD Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-07-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-860.ana.u28	I call Senator Fornaro to explain motion 817.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-07-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-860.ana.u29	Madam President, representatives of the Government, the motion we have tabled is a reflection on the issues that have already been highlighted by my colleagues and on which I will not return. In particular, I would like to try to contextualize the subject of the motions and, therefore, the Treaty approved by the UN Conference specifically convened on 7 July. After the conclusion of the Second World War and the very rapid establishment of the Cold War, nuclear weapons have certainly been a deterrent and have contributed, despite them, to maintaining a framework of stability. The 1970 Nuclear Non-Proliferation Treaty has in some way established the possibility for five nations (memory: the United States, Russia, China, France and the United Kingdom) to maintain and feed a nuclear arsenal. Then they added India, Pakistan, Israel, North Korea and, much more recently, Iran with the issue that we all remember. With the end of the Cold War, we are faced with an absolutely new international framework, with a sharp deterioration in the balance and, consequently, with increasing risks, the last of which is certainly the aggression in nuclear terms of North Korea. There is, then, a second element that has changed the general framework, namely technological innovation, with the possibility of transporting nuclear bombs by carriers of much smaller dimensions, to allow tactical use, more targeted, which could actually lead, in some cases, to make the use of weapons easier, with the negative consequences that we remember and with the concerns that we all - I think - share. In this spirit we retraced in the motion the various passages, begun on 23 December 2016 with the approval of the resolution for the opening of the negotiations, until - as already mentioned - to the approval on 7 July last. Our position from this point of view is very realistic: I believe that we cannot forget the existence of international NATO defence agreements and with the United States, which is something that must be taken into account and, consequently, made consistent with the objective, on which we absolutely agree, to arrive, in the shortest possible perspective, at the prohibition of the use of nuclear weapons tout court. 11:45 a.m. (Follows FORNARO). From this point of view, our mechanism - I am beginning to conclude in order to respect the times - commits the Government to adopt, through the new diplomatic strategy, appropriate actions in order to allow, in compliance with the international commitments already entered into, the signing of the legally binding Treaty on the prohibition of nuclear weapons, approved in New York on 7 July 2017 by the UN Conference specifically convened, thus following the consequent procedures of ratification of the same. [[Applause from the Art.1-MDP Group and Senator Puppato.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-07-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-860.ana.u30	I declare the debate open. He's enlisted to speak Senator Battista. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-07-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-860.ana.u31	Mr President, representatives of the Government, ladies and gentlemen, before I comment on the substance of this debate, I would like to point out that this House is dealing with important issues when it would have been desirable for it to be further examined in the Committees on the merits, in addition to what has been initiated by the UN General Assembly since December 2016, with the adoption of a resolution which has arranged for the opening of negotiations to establish an international agreement to prohibit nuclear weapons and to achieve their total elimination. Undoubtedly, the theme of disarmament and non-proliferation of arms carries with it a historical load that is not elusive, which has its roots in the Second World War, through the arms race of the Cold War, and arrives today, depositing before our eyes a series of interpretative misunderstandings, not lacking to produce political positions sometimes anachronistic with respect to the changed international structures. I would like to stress that the subject proposed by Mr Cotti's motion is certainly worthy of attention, although it belongs to a more complex subject, that of the F35 weapon system, on which Parliament has repeatedly been debating. Recalling the hearing of the Chief of Staff of the Air Force, Air Force General Enzo Vecciarelli, last May 18, I convinced myself that it would be more useful to insist on that location and on this specific point, highlighting what are the real capabilities of the multirole fighter. The motions we are debating today, however, rightly highlight the commitments made at international level to defend what is contained in the Nuclear Non-Proliferation Treaty and, at the same time, with meritorious rationality and objectivity, the delicate task of overcoming nuclear weapons in a geopolitical context, such as the current one, in strong evolution. A clear example of how the traditional balance between powers has been aligned is the nuclear and ballistic programme of North Korea, a country that came out of the Nuclear Non-Proliferation Treaty in 2003 and constitutes a serious and growing threat to international peace and security. This circumstance is firmly condemned by our country and highlighted in the G7 declaration on non-proliferation and disarmament adopted in Lucca on 11 April 2017. It should also be noted that although a reduction in the total number of atomic weapons is under way, some countries are developing new tactical capabilities and increasing their arsenals. I am referring to India, Pakistan and China. It should also be stressed that both the United States and Russia, which hold 93% of the warheads, continue to believe that nuclear devices are an essential element for their security plans, so much so that the Obama administration has moved from promising to free the world from nuclear weapons to investing $1,000 billion in thirty years to modernize its nuclear complex. And the same can be said for Putin's Russia, with 7,290 warheads and its ten-year plan for 8 new Borei class submarines, able to board up to 16 Bulava missiles. The Russian Federation has also decided to resume production of the supersonic bomber Tupolev Tu-160, with at least 50 aircraft to be obtained from 2023. We are talking about weapon systems with ballistic capabilities that, for the underwater component alone, include a range of 10,000 kilometers. It is clear that if the objective is to achieve a world without nuclear weapons, new international instruments must be found that go beyond the current ones, based on a progressive approach to denuclearisation. The complexity of a unified position in a context of strong asymmetries both at national level, and among the countries participating in the NPT, as there are countries that hold nuclear weapons, countries that host them and countries that are not part of NATO. Undoubtedly, the unawareness of the pilot of the Enola Gay and the fear of nuclear proliferation, born with the splitting of the atom, has been lost, has found strength and consistency in all treaties. It is therefore our duty to maintain our commitment never to provoke nuclear disasters again, resulting in irreversible damage to humanity and the planet. And the only way to make sure this outcome is to commit to radically eliminating the risk. In the world there are those who accumulate nuclear devices and display them as trophies to ensnare clashes between powers, foment irresponsibility and seek beautiful casus suitable for direct confrontation. It is worth wondering what is the most appropriate behaviour to maintain, as a country and as a union of States under the aegis of the Community and of the UN and NATO. What are the strategies to be adopted to ensure peace on the world chessboard? How can we be antagonists in this context of delicate nuclear balances? The solution can only be the adoption of a new diplomatic strategy to allow, in compliance with the international commitments already undertaken, the signing of the legally binding Treaty on the prohibition of nuclear weapons, approved in New York on 7 July 2017 by the United Nations Conference. [[Applause from the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and ……]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-07-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-860.ana.u32	Senator Amati is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-07-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-860.ana.u33	Mr President, we are now close to the anniversary of the launch of bombs on Hiroshima and Nagasaki. The remembrance of the terrible sufferings and devastations without precedent reminds us of the responsibility to learn from experience, committing ourselves, at national and international level, to strengthen norms that help to build the foundations of a solid future of peace. Just last Sunday the anniversary of the first American test took place: it was July 16, 1945. And those who took the test then gave news of the result, telling the President of the United States that the child was born well. These are words, which should always be reflected on. After the release of the first Oppenheimer bomb, in fact, it was much more precise: his feelings led him to say that the monster that bore the death they had created would kill not only the enemy, as could be understandable, but also his children and his families. And then there was no awareness of the radiation problem at all. We now know that from 15 June this year to last Friday 7 July, negotiations were held at the United Nations on the drafting and adoption of the Nuclear Weapons Ban Treaty. My colleague, Senator Manassero, has already mentioned the origins and events of the Nuclear Non-Proliferation Treaty (NPT) and the various needs to revise this act. Of the 197 members of the UN, 122 countries voted for an instrument, which will nevertheless be legally binding, to ban the use of nuclear weapons and thus lead to their total elimination. Of course, this is an instrument that will then have to be ratified. I therefore agree with the commitments proposed by my colleagues, who think of the need for our country to ratify it. I imagine, however, that this Treaty will be ratified, because out of 122 countries 50 will be willing to do so. I remember that nuclear weapons remain the only weapons of mass destruction not yet outlawed, despite their catastrophic environmental and humanitarian impacts, while biological, chemical, anti-personnel mines and cluster bombs are still prohibited by international law. Today in the world there are at least 15,000 devices, especially in the arsenals of the United States and Russia, and we know that other powers (Great Britain, France, China, Israel, India, Pakistan and North Korea) are equipped with such weapons. We also know that among those who did not attend the last session of the UN there are precisely these countries and we also know that our country did not vote for the relevant document. I believe that it is not even a coincidence that we are debating this motion today, after the conclusion of the United Nations Conference, even though we know that the value of the vote on parliamentary motions is not really heavy. 11:55 a.m. (Follows AMATI). Why are we doing this, then? We do this because we have a duty to tell the truth and to remember that on 4 April 1949 the Atlantic Pact was signed in Washington and in 1951 our country, which was lost in the war, signed with conviction the accession to NATO, in whose Treaty nuclear sharing is explicit - it is precisely one of its points - involving the member countries - and therefore Italy too - in the planning of the use of nuclear weapons and in the supply and, where appropriate, in the use of nuclear weapons. It is clear that we are talking about a binding treaty. I would like to congratulate the rapporteur on his excellent report, and I would like to congratulate him on his excellent report. These things, however, seem a bit anachronistic to me today, beyond the merit and the many years that have passed. Therefore, I believe that the only hope must be placed in the work of civil society and in a change in the general perspective. Since today I do not see any real possibility of changing this condition, I seriously withdraw my signature from motion 405, at the first signature of Senator Cotti, while signing motion 801, at the first signature of Senator Manassero, whom I thought I had already signed, for consistency, although I know that the result of the vote on the motions under consideration will certainly not change the history of nuclear power in Italy. [[Applause from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-07-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-860.ana.u34	The debate is closed. I call the representative of the Government, and I would ask him to give his opinion on the motions put forward.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-07-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-860.ana.u35	Madam President, I will also speak on behalf of the State Secretary for Defence, Mr Rossi. I am against the motions for resolutions Nos 1, 2, 4, 8, 8, 8, 8, 9, 10, 10, 10, 10, 10, 10, 10, 10, 10, 11, 11, 11, 11, 11, 11, 11, 11, 11, 11, 11, 11, 11, 11, 11, 11, 11, 11, 11, 11, 11, 11, 11, 11, 11, 11, 11, 11, 11, 11, 11, 11, 11, 11, 11, 11, 11, 11, 11, 11, 11, 11, 11, 11, 11, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, I give a favourable opinion on motion No 801, first signed by Senator Manassero. MARTON (M5S). You know what's new. Mr AMENDOLA, State Secretary for Foreign Affairs and International Cooperation. What are you gonna do? It's life. I express a favourable opinion on motion 817 at the first signature of Senator Fornaro, requesting that the last paragraph of the commitment be replaced by the Government, from the commitment of the Government to the ratification of it, with the Government undertaking to continue to pursue the objective of a world without nuclear weapons, through a progressive and inclusive approach to disarmament, recognising the centrality of the Nuclear Non-Proliferation Treaty and through ways that promote international stability, assessing in this context, compatible with the objective outlined, with the obligations assumed in the Atlantic Alliance and with the guidance of the other allies, the possibility to accede to the legally binding treaty in order to prohibit nuclear weapons, which leads to their total elimination, approved in New York on 7 July 2017 by the UN conference specifically convened in New York. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I ask Senator Fornaro if he accepts the rewording proposed by the government.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-07-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-860.ana.u36	Madam President, I would like to thank the Government for its attention. It is obviously a small step forward, reductive compared to our device. However, we welcome the government's willingness and accept the proposed reformulation.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-07-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-860.ana.u37	We shall now proceed to the vote on the motions for resolutions.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-07-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-860.ana.u38	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-07-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-860.ana.u39	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-07-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-860.ana.u40	FORNARO (Art. 1-MDP). Madam President, I believe that different positions have emerged from the debate and from the motions presented, but I do not believe that with regard to the final objective, shared by all, that - as Mr Baptist has already said - it is also for us the elimination of the nightmare of nuclear weapons from our planet. I believe that for our part there is a difference with the first-signed motions of Senator De Petris and Senator Cotti respectively; a difference not so much on the objective, which is to arrive quickly at the signing of the Treaty for the ban, but on the passage relating to international agreements, which at the present stage sees us in a different position. As far as motion 801 is concerned, first signed by Senator Manassero, we cannot fail to note the fact that - as I believe the Senator herself will recognize - having been tabled on 20 June, she does not take into account the elements of significant change that took place with the vote of 7 July last. This motion, therefore, in some way evades the issue. However, the content of the commitments to the Government is difficult to deny and, therefore, while recognising its objective limits, we will vote in favour of this motion. We will, of course, vote in favour of our motion - as I said earlier in the process of accepting the rewording proposed by the Government - as a small step in the right direction and we therefore call on the House to do the same. [[Applause from the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and ……]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-07-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-860.ana.u41	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-07-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-860.ana.u42	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-07-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-860.ana.u43	DIVINE (LN-Aut). Madam President, I would like to reiterate a few concepts. We continue to talk about banning the military and nuclear arsenal, and we are sure that this should not be an incentive. It must be said, however, that its use as a deterrent, achieved in the last seventy or eighty years, has allowed a certain balance to be maintained. We can therefore say that the nations that have used it as a deterrent have guaranteed some peace and quiet at international level. What is most concerned are countries that have a military and nuclear culture other than ours, countries that have recently reached nuclear power, such as Pakistan, India or North Korea. And North Korea is likely to push Japan to think that it has weapons of equal scope or equal deterency. We use the presence in the Chamber of Undersecretaries for defence and foreign affairs to understand the position of our country when the Americans, on their own, decided to completely disinterest themselves in the Mediterranean and European area and to withdraw their posts. Europe as a whole should take a stand, meditate and think about common security in a different way. Germany is thinking on its own and France would like to impose its own model at European level. I would like to know whether we will have to go along with the do-it-yourself, so everyone has to make up for it, and whether Europe will have to follow the French model a little bit. Beyond that, we call for our motion to be approved, because it goes precisely in the directions suggested by others: a discouragement of proliferation, but without criminalizing this system because, until proven otherwise, we have no others who can guarantee a tranquillity and discouragement of war actions. And this is precisely because, used as a deterrent, the nuclear system has borne fruit since 1945. [[Applause from Senator Comaroli.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-07-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-860.ana.u44	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-07-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-860.ana.u45	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-07-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-860.ana.u46	MARINO Luigi (AP-CpE-NCD). Madam President, in the time of easy simplifications, when everything must be black or white, where there are no nuances and there is no gray, we must, on the other hand, live differently with compromises and, often, with mediation agreements, with the search for difficult balances. In the era of memory, for example, let us ask ourselves why Western Europe has no longer had a war for seventy years: because the conflicts in Europe have only broken out in the former Yugoslavia and on the border with Russia, states outside the European Union and outside NATO. It is the period of rampant demagogy, in which military spending on education, health, in the budgets of the States, is put in contrast, taking into account the fact that Italy, in the percentage between military expenditure and GDP, among the first industrialized countries is certainly the one that spends less on the army, on militarization, on the modernization of its armaments. In this simplification season, such as the simplification for which I sometimes see and feel, in this Parliament, an upside down world, Italy - and I use an unusual adjective in this House - is a good nation, a non-aggressive nation; it is not a rogue and evil nation. And NATO, for us, is also a defensive and non-aggressive alliance and organization. That is why, in this season of simplifications, erased memory and demagogy, it would certainly be enchanting to dream of a world free of weapons and to declare itself antinuclear and anti-militarist. Instead, reality is very different. The world is not just made of beautiful souls. There are too many non-democratic states in the world, they are the majority. The world consists of nations such as North Korea, China, Pakistan, Russia, but also India, which possess nuclear weapons without having the first real and only deterrent to their use. The real deterrent to the use of the atomic weapon is democracy, true freedom, the existence of a public opinion truly autonomous of power, capable of controlling and conditioning power. On the contrary, in the very important states holding the nuclear weapon, there are at the top dictators, unique parties and systems in which opponents and representatives of the press are arrested or dismissed. It is in this world, and not in the world of Alice in the Land of Wonders, that the motions that we are discussing today fall and we will vote shortly. We in the People's Centre for Europe are in favour of those motions which support nuclear disarmament with a progressive, negotiated and controlled approach, in any case with a non-one-sided approach. To be non-unilateral has allowed the Berlin Wall to be demolished, to reduce the number of nuclear weapons between the two great powers of the last century, to find a way for non-proliferation agreements and treaties. Deterrence serves to preserve balance, to fortify peace and to maintain and spread over time the western conquests of freedom and democracy. That is why we shall be voting in favour, in line with the Government's opinion, of motions Nos 801 and 817 (text 2), but we are also in favour of motion No 799. [[Applause from Senator Berger.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-07-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-860.ana.u47	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-07-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-860.ana.u48	You have it, Senator Loredana De Petris.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-07-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-860.ana.u49	DE PETRIS (Misto-SI-SEL). Madam President, thank you for quoting my first name, since undersecretary Amendola not only did not give us a reply to make us understand exactly what the government thinks, but even ignored the kind of presenters. But we've gotten used to it. It's not enough to be called Amendola to make people think they know something about foreign policy. Madam President, having said that, the reply was due and we are very sorry that there has not been one, because the issue of nuclear disarmament should be the subject of a wide-ranging debate and also of a strong commitment from the Government. I have heard before, in previous speeches, of the lack of realism of our motions and of ours not realizing the reality: they told us this even when we promoted the first referendum on nuclear power, but - as we have seen - the citizens are far ahead of those who govern them. The motions before us, the commitment to progress, as well as the Treaty voted by the UN on 7 July, undoubtedly contribute to a further step towards the fact that nuclear weapons are the only ones that remain legal and are not banned by the international community. However, it is also the weapons that endanger the survival of the human species and of the Planet, for all the reasons we know well and for the tremendous effects they can produce, especially in a world far from pacified. For these reasons the motions on our examination risk being a missed opportunity on the part of the Government. All the motions that demand, with great sobriety, a precise commitment have obtained the contrary opinion from the Government, while it has been expressed favorable opinion on those that fly over the specific topic. Madam President, for all these reasons we can only confirm our vote in favour of motion 405 on the F-35, of course on our motion No 739 (text 2), on motion No 795 (text 2) again on the Treaty; instead, we are voting against motions Nos 795 (text 2) on the Treaty. 799 and 801. Motion No 817 in its first version would have had our vote in favour. Having accepted the rewording and, therefore, having been diluted the commitment, we cannot go beyond one abstention vote. On August 6, in a few days, there will be the anniversary of Hiroshima and regret that, despite what happened and the continuous threats of North Korea, the governments of the world and especially those of the strongest countries do not realize that it is time to persevere with determination in banning nuclear weapons. We are very concerned, because this attitude of the Government preludes the fact that we will continue to hold the same behavior held on July 7, that is, we will not participate in the vote and we have no intention of ratifying it. This means that, once again, the great powers (which are then the nuclear powers) will decide on the destiny of the peoples and also of our own. With regard to the commitment with NATO, it is time, beyond the alliance, to discuss the conditions and to remove our people from certain obligations. The nuclear weapon does not concern distant countries, but it can lead to dangers and problems for our people as well. Many of our regions have military bases that have nuclear devices inside and, more importantly, we should deal not only with general issues, because the Treaty would also have a beneficial effect on our country. [[Applause from Senators Mineo and Petraglia.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-07-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-860.ana.u50	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-07-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-860.ana.u51	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-07-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-860.ana.u52	Cotti (M5S). Madam President, during my stay in New York for the adoption of the Treaty, which makes all nuclear weapons illegal, I was able to compare myself with the members of an association called Parliamentarians for nuclear nonproliferation and disarmament (PNND), which brings together parliamentarians from all over the world who are opposed to nuclear proliferation and disarmament. I'll tell you a curiosity. To this association, which has fought strongly for the adoption of the Treaty and which recently appealed to NATO and the OSCE to support the Treaty banning all nuclear weapons in the world, 45 Italian MPs, including myself, join. I am the only one in the opposition and then there are 44 MPs from the Democratic Party and MDP. I would like to mention some of them here, such as Senators Amati, Chiti and Finocchiaro, Granaiola, Pegorer, Mattesini, the leader Zanda, Senator Zavoli and, even, the Minister of Defence Pinotti. They all adhere to this association, which is one of the ones that has fought most for the adoption of this Treaty. It seems paradoxical to me that the Government and these parties do not approve a clear position, except the very weak one that would emerge from the MDP motion, which would have been voted before the reformulation, but which now presents the Government's commitments completely watered down. The position of the 5 Star Movement is in favour of the motion on the Treaty which makes nuclear weapons illegal, our motion 405 and motion 739 (text 2). We are opposed to motion No 799 because it supports the need to be under some kind of nuclear umbrella. We are also opposed to the Democratic Party's motion No 801, at the first signature of Senator Manassero, who completely ignores the fact that this new treaty was adopted in New York on 7 July last, referring to the 1968 Nuclear Non-Proliferation Treaty. Excuse me, colleagues, but it is as if we were referring to the peace pacts signed by the Roman Empire with the Carthaginian Hannibal, given the results that in these long decades has obtained that nuclear non-proliferation treaty. That is why we cannot vote in favour of the motion. Of course, we believe that we are voting in favour of motion 405 on the presence of nuclear weapons on board F-35 aircraft. I appeal to the 95 Members who signed it, because I consider it very important that we also give a signal to our people who do not want nuclear weapons on the ground, let alone if they want them on board our planes flying in the sky. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-07-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-860.ana.u53	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-07-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-860.ana.u54	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-07-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-860.ana.u55	Alicata (FI-PdL XVII). (IT) Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, first of all, Forza Italia shares the objectives identified in motions nos. 799 and 801 to pursue a limit on the proliferation of nuclear weapons. We are also convinced that in order to achieve this high goal it is necessary and fundamental to pursue a fruitful dialogue in the highest fora involving, above all, the countries that hold nuclear arsenals, but this obviously is not enough. Among the countries with nuclear weapons are the main protagonists of peace signed after the Second World War, which, from the nuclear tragedy that led to the rapid conclusion of that conflict, nevertheless drew the teaching of never using nuclear weapons again. They are, of course, the same protagonists of the so-called Cold War, the United States and Russia, who used their arsenals to ensure mainly that deterrent that has created more proliferation over the years. The phrase vis pacem, para bellum is so ancient that it has never lost its actuality. On the other hand, the most important thing about the presence of nuclear weapons in the world is that they, even if produced and stored, are never used. Of course, we share the idea of continuing to work simultaneously for peace and for balancing arsenals in order to gradually reduce them. It would certainly be nice to have a world without nuclear weapons, with the great powers committed to using economic resources for high and noble purposes, rather than building atomic devices. However, people who think of a world without weapons and even more of those who imagine a planet in which there are countries ready not to use part of their economic budget to legitimately build weapons. We must not forget, in our day, the so-called rogue states, dangerously able to produce nuclear weapons and to disregard, beyond the most basic human rights, even any signatures at the bottom of any denuclearization treaty. Therefore, a balancing action is necessary that allows not a Manichaean vision between the forces of good and evil, but to contain the radical drives of those who imagine to face the relations of power between States through the threat of the use or the transfer to third parties of nuclear weapons. In this respect, we are certainly in favour of the universalisation and strengthening of the Non-Proliferation Treaty, as we welcome the entry into force of the Comprehensive Nuclear Test Ban Treaty (CTBT). However, we also hope that a treaty will be concluded on the banning of fissile material suitable for the manufacture of nuclear weapons, the consolidation and creation of areas free of atomic devices. Without any practical effect, on the other hand, it is the Treaty on the prohibition of nuclear weapons recently voted at the UN, which is appropriately lacking in the Italian consensus, because it lacks that of the powers that possess these devices. It would be more profitable to create a climate of trust in the world, especially by those who, while possessing nuclear weapons, are the peacekeeper countries. In this we see no contrast between the role of the United States and that of the Russian Federation, the two major nuclear powers which have the most important international relations and the greatest powers in the UN Security Council. Countries committed, moreover, in a dominant way to contain and stop the terrorism that ignites the world, continues to devastate the Middle East, and to which the possibility of acquiring devastating devices must be prevented. Just as, among the main actors committed to maintaining peace in the world, it should be remembered that there are also European countries such as the United Kingdom, which is in the process of exiting the Union, and France, which will remain, at the moment, the only country in the Union to possess atomic devices, with an increasingly important role in the international scenario. Even by virtue of this new role of the cousins of Oltralpe, it remains difficult to share the proposals of the motion that proposes the limitation to the use of the F-35 by Italy, failing, moreover, to commitments already made in the Atlantic Alliance. Italy, as is well known, does not have nuclear weapons. The acquisition of the F-35, which will replace end-of-life machines, although capable of carrying nuclear weapons, will certainly not mean having such devices. We repeat, therefore, to share the commitments provided for in the motions at first signature of Senator Centinario and Senator Manassero, confirming the awareness that it must be the great Countries possessing arsenals to guide a reasoned path towards denuclearization. [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-07-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-860.ana.u56	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-07-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-860.ana.u57	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-07-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-860.ana.u58	Sangalli (PD). Madam President, the Group of the Party of European Socialists will vote strongly in favour of the first-signed motion by Senator Manassero and also in favour of the motion tabled by the Group of the Party of European Socialists, which was first signed by Senator Fornaro. We shall vote on these motions in agreement and in agreement with the Government because we believe that nuclear power is a topical issue at this time, after a phase in which it seemed that the issue of nuclear power, ultimately, within the Nuclear Non-Proliferation Treaty, would lead to a world-wide need for arms reduction until nuclear weapons disappear completely. We have seen that the international situation has changed profoundly since the two great powers - the United States of America and the then Soviet Union - based much of the deterrent in the balance between the great powers precisely on the race for nuclear proliferation. That was a framework of international politics to which we clearly cannot strive nor can we return, but which somehow guaranteed a so-called world-wide government of the issue of nuclear power and made it a fundamental part not only of strategic military policy, but as such also part of international politics. For example, the various non-proliferation and nuclear development treaties were ratified by the United Nations, and the countries were committed to being within a certain regime. With the disappearance of this polarization we have reached a stage that is, in some respects, more risky than in the past and for this reason the focus on the development of nuclear weapons must remain very high. It is a more risky phase, because with the dissolution of the Soviet Empire, nuclear weapons have been partially dispersed in various countries, even in countries whose stability or democratic recognition is particularly doubtful. New negative protagonists are emerging: just think of recent events in North Korea. The conditions under which all the content of the Non-Proliferation Treaty, which had as its pillar disarmament and non-proliferation and also the peaceful use of nuclear energy, must be revised and repositioned as it has been done - I say this for reasons of brevity - both at the G7 in 2016, and at the G7 held in Lucca on 10 and 11 April 2017 among the Ministers of Defence, as well as in the Taormina Communique of 26 and 27 May. We are for our Government to commit itself to pursuing the objective of a world without nuclear weapons, through a progressive and inclusive approach to disarmament, and to recognising the centrality of the Non-Proliferation Treaty. We are also committed to promoting the universalisation and strengthening of the Non-Proliferation Treaty, the entry into force of the Treaty on the total ban on nuclear weapons, the conclusion of a treaty on banning fossil materials suitable for the manufacture of nuclear weapons, the consolidation and creation of nuclear-weapon-free zones (in particular, we are thinking of an area which is now involved in strong tensions such as the Middle East) and other measures of transparency and confidence building. This is a working scheme of foreign policy and international policy, to which our governments have traditionally adhered within the Atlantic Alliance, but also within the United Nations. It is, however, a foreign policy scheme, which cannot be managed only by using a few levers or by targeting only some kind of armament rather than others. All this must take place within a convention that can be achieved between the different countries and on which the different countries, especially our allies, must be able to agree with us. This is the only way to move towards a real and not demagogic denuclearization. That is why we support these two motions. [[Applause from Senators Cucca and Russo.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-07-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-860.ana.u59	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-07-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-860.ana.u60	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-07-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-860.ana.u61	MARTON (M5S). Madam President, perhaps Senator Cotti did not clearly specify the indication of vote on motion 817 at the first signature of Senator Fornaro. We very much liked the first wording of this motion, on which we would have voted in favour. It is clear that, just as it has been watered down as a result of the reformulation proposed by the Government, we cannot vote in favour and we cannot even abstain. We shall therefore vote against this motion.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-07-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-860.ana.u62	Before we proceed to the vote, I warn you that, in line with established practice, motions will be put to the vote in the order of presentation. We shall now proceed to the vote on motion 405. SANTANGELO (M5S). We call for the vote to be taken by simultaneous ballot by electronic means. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of motion 405 tabled by Senator Cotti and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Senator Collina informed the Presidency of the malfunctioning of his voting position and announced that he intended to vote against it. We take note of that. We shall now proceed to the vote on motion No 739 (text 2). SANTANGELO (M5S). We call for the vote to be taken by simultaneous ballot by electronic means. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of motion No 739 (text 2), tabled by Senator De Petris and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the vote on motion No 795 (text 2). SANTANGELO (M5S). We call for the vote to be taken by simultaneous ballot by electronic means. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of motion No 795 (text 2), tabled by Senator Cotti and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the vote on motion No 799. SANTANGELO (M5S). We call for the vote to be taken by simultaneous ballot by electronic means. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of motion No 799, tabled by Senator Centinario and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the vote on motion No 801.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-07-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-860.ana.u63	I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators, by electronic procedure. (The request is supported). I therefore call on the senators to make their presence known by electronic means. (Follows the quorum check.) The Senate is not a quorum. [[Comments and ironic applause from the PD Group.]] I therefore suspend the sitting. (The sitting was suspended at 12.35 a.m. and resumed at 12.55).
ParlaMint-IT_2017-07-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-860.ana.u64	Before we resume our work, I take the opportunity to wish a colleague of ours, Senator Stefani, who is now turning her years. [[Applause]] We shall now proceed to the vote on motion No 801.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-07-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-860.ana.u65	I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators, by electronic procedure. (The request is supported). I therefore call on the senators to make their presence known by electronic means. (Follows the quorum check.) The Senate is not a quorum. Appreciate the circumstances, postpone the continuation of the debate on motions for a further sitting.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-07-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-860.ana.u66	The motions, questions and questions received by the Presidency will be published in Annex B to today's report. I remember that the Senate will return to meet in public today, at 4.30 p.m., with the agenda already printed and distributed. The sitting was closed at 12.57 p.m.
