ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-890.ana.u1	The sitting was opened at 16.32 a.m. The Minutes shall be read. Mr Pegorer, Secretary, read the Minutes of the sitting of the previous day. PRESIDENT. - The debate is Since there were no comments, the Minutes were approved.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-890.ana.u2	The list of senators on leave and absent on assignment received from the Senate, as well as further communications to the Assembly, will be published in Annex B to today's Minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-890.ana.u3	I would warn you that qualified votes can be taken in the course of today's sitting by electronic means. Therefore, from this moment the period of 20 minutes from the notice provided for in Article 119, paragraph 1, of the Regulation (at 16.35).
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-890.ana.u4	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-890.ana.u5	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-890.ana.u6	MORRA (M5S). Madam President, I am speaking because I would like to take credit. Thanks to my wrong vote, this morning, I gave work to many who, for the news agencies and for the newspapers, have stormed me with phone calls. I want to start the country again and, as a result, I wanted to let the House know, as is logically understandable, that the vote I voted for - God forbid and free - of the resolution proposed by Senators Zanda, Bianconi and Zeller was a wrong vote. The intention was to vote with my group against the resolution proposed by the majority. I would like to point out this fact so that the reporters will take note of this because, thanks to me, they may have had a lot of work to do. [[Applause from the M5S Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-890.ana.u7	We take note of that.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-890.ana.u8	The next item is the resolution on the request for an urgent statement, pursuant to Rule 77 of the Rules of Procedure, on draft law No 2768. I would remind you that there is a debate on this request in which no more than one speaker will be able to speak for each parliamentary group and for no more than ten minutes. Senator Ciampolillo has the floor to illustrate the request.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-890.ana.u9	Madam President, I would like to mention some of our colleagues: Senators Barozzino, Battista, Bencini, Bocchino, Buemi, Campanella, Capacchione, Casson, Cervellini, Cirinna, Dalla Zuanna, De Cristofaro, De Petris, Eposito, Fabbri, Elena Ferrara, Filippi, Ichino, Lo Giudice, Lumia, Manassero, Manconi, Maran, Margiotta, Mattesini, Mirabelli, Morgoni, Mussini, Orellana, Palermo, Pegorer, Petraglia, Pezzopane, Puppato, Ricchiuti, Maurizio Romani, Scalia, Simeoni, Sollo, Spilabotte, Uras, Vaccari and Zanoni. Those mentioned are the names of the senators who signed the bill of the parliamentary legal intergroup cannabis, promoted between the two Chambers of Parliament, bill which provided for an articulated discipline on the subject of cannabis. Well, that bill is now, as you know, finally shipwrecked. Now here we vote on the urgency of this 5 Star Movement law proposal, of which I am the first signatory, and many of the senators I have appointed will probably not follow their conscience today in the interests of the sick and those who suffer, but they will bend their vote to the logics of the parties, the Democratic Party, the pharmaceutical companies, that crew of the old politics that the 5 Star Movement will send home in a few months. [[Comments of the Senators Albano and Cardinals]] You do not listen and will not listen to the cry of pain of so many people who suffer, sick people, such as Carlo Monaco, who yesterday was here in the Senate, at the press conference, waiting for the vote and who until this morning, with a video, begged you to vote today in favour of the urgent request on this draft law, which consists of only one article and which is certainly the only one that can be voted by the end of the legislature. Today, however, Mr President, by approving the urgent timetable for the draft law on therapeutic cannabis, which allows the domestic self-cultivation of four plants to each sick person with special medical certification, the Senate Assembly has the possibility to give a concrete response to the real needs of so many sick people in Italy, of so many people suffering from very serious diseases, who are unable to treat themselves with a natural drug, because they are not in the pharmacy. In Italy it is legal to treat yourself with cannabis since 2007, but those lucky few who manage to have the prescription go to the pharmacy and do not find it, because it is not enough the harvest of the military pharmaceutical institute in Florence and, above all, it is not enough the harvest that comes from Holland, from the company Bedrocan, that in these days has apologized to the sick, because it is not able to guarantee the therapeutic continuity. I trust the sensitivity of my colleagues in all the groups and hope that they will be able to respond to this call for help, to show that politics and politicians are first and foremost people close to the needs of those who suffer and who are able to understand the true meaning of their commitment to Parliament. [[Brusio.]] I ask colleagues at the League not to scream. I urge my fellow party senators not to fall victim to the palace games, these parliamentary tricks, these parliamentary film tricks. [[Brusio.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-890.ana.u10	Colleagues, I invite you to lower the volume of the buzz, because it is really very high and prevents Senator Ciampolillo from performing his speech. I ask this courtesy of all sectors of this House.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-890.ana.u11	CHAMPOLILLO (M5S). Thank you, Madam President. This is clearly their interest in those who suffer. [[Comments of Senator Cardinals]] It is news of yesterday that in the House of Deputies, strangely, it was decided to anticipate the debate, after the umpteenth postponement of the postponement (until the end of October) of a generic and inconsistent draft law on cannabis, which would also include therapeutic profiles and which, in any case, is unable to address the problem we are talking about today and which we can solve here. I am sure that, in the face of the cry of pain of so many people, suffering from very serious diseases, in the face of their request for help, we certainly cannot bend to mere political calculations, by politicians who are clumsy. On these issues there should be no palace tricks and political divisions, but only the common will to give a true and high sense to our political commitment, which finds its only justification in an attempt to help those in need, to give support to those who suffer, to offer a hope and a concrete response to the needs of citizens and people. Colleagues, I invite you here in the Senate to vote on the urgent calendarization of the provision and, despite everything, I continue to hope for your intellectual honesty. Here, today, citizens who ask for help will know the senators who, working on the basis of their own conscience and values, will interpret their political commitment as a service for citizens and those who instead will use politics to safeguard an armchair, deceiving themselves that this shame can continue and last for a long time. I ask you to vote in favour of the people who suffer, giving them concrete help, so that they can alleviate suffering and make them live a life that is less painful and certainly happier. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-890.ana.u12	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-890.ana.u13	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-890.ana.u14	[[Comments from the PD Group.]] Colleagues, respect for Senator Giovanardi! Mr Giovanardi (PL-Id) Madam President, since the subject we are dealing with and on which Parliament is questioning is very serious, I would first of all like to make a parliamentary point: it is unlikely or not constructive that, while the House has been discussing the same subject for months, the Senate will overlap its work and duplicate the debate. But what worries me most at the moment is precisely the problem of who legitimately wants to use the derivatives and active ingredients of cannabis for curative purposes. We need to understand ourselves: in Italy it has always been absolutely legitimate and possible to cure medical conditions with cannabis derivatives. The real problem was that, for a number of reasons (which the members of the Health Commission know very well), it was necessary to supply abroad because there was no production in Italy. We solved this problem last year, with a legislative intervention that instructed the Military Institute to produce these drugs; at the same time, if production was not sufficient, it was established the possibility of concluding conventions that would allow us to fully satisfy the demand. Clearly, however, it is a medicine and, like any medicine, the prescription involves a medical prescription that, recognized the disease, allows access to the medicine. Unfortunately, the Military Institute produces this medicinal product to a limited extent and, therefore, according to what a television broadcast has recently shown, it is not able to satisfy the demand and demands that come, through medical recipes, from those who intend to cure their pathologies through the active ingredients of cannabis. This is the real problem to be addressed, on which I would ask that the Government also give an answer. I appeal to the members of the Health Commission as well as to the Government to verify and monitor the reasons why this happens. Attention: there may be and there is discussion and debate about the use of cannabis and its derivatives for recreational and recreational purposes; but it is clear that there is no opposition and disagreement about the fact that the sick have all the rights to treat themselves with cannabis derivatives. Other is to get to the personal production, to the possibility for everyone to create the medicine at home and take it without having the guarantee of the active substance and the relationship between the product you take and the healing benefits: in any civil country, in Europe and all over the world, anyone knows that when you have a disease, if you want to take certain medicines, you must do it under medical prescription. I believe that these are all good reasons to raise the problem and that it is right to talk about it and to urge the Government and the whole of Parliament to ensure that the decision we have taken by law (to allow the Military Institute to produce cannabis derivatives and curative active ingredients and, if this is not enough, to conclude agreements with other producers) allows the demand to be addressed in a comprehensive way, without creating any controversy, reaching a positive response to all those who legitimately believe that their pathology can be better treated with cannabis derivatives.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-890.ana.u15	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-890.ana.u16	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-890.ana.u17	De Cristofaro (Misto-SI-SEL). Madam President, we will support and vote in favour of the request for an urgent statement under Rule 77 of the Rules of Procedure. The reasons are soon given. The Italian Left Group considers the epilogue with which it has been consumed, in particular in the Chamber, the story born from the parliamentary Intergroup of 220 signatories of the appeal at the beginning of the legislature, unfortunately, very unpositive for Parliament. Moreover, the conclusion of the affair in the House saw the protagonist in particular our Group, because it ended with the resignation of a colleague of my party who, not sharing the text that had been produced, much less advanced than the one imagined, in this way rightly wanted to point out a dissent. The bitterness remains in his mouth for yet another missed occasion. Now, even listening to Senator Giovanardi's last speech, we feel the clear feeling that there are still some topics in our country that are considered taboo. And yet we are no longer in California in the fifties where, when you had two grams of marijuana in your pocket, you caught six or seven years of imprisonment; we are at a stage in the history of humanity when many parliaments, around the world, seriously question each other, without ideological or propagandistic arguments but with data at hand, about the need to reverse a trend. We believe that, starting from the considerations made by Senator Ciampolillo but also by broadening the field of discussion, this reversal of trend would be particularly positive. It would be positive because the Parliament of a country that deals with the reality with which we are dealing, should take note of how the strategy that over the last few decades has marked in particular our country's policies on the story of light drugs, that is, the prohibitionist strategy, has caused a gigantic failure, not only in relation to what Senator Ciampolillo said, so with reference to the lack of attention to the sick, an issue that is also of great importance and of great centrality, but also with a removal of reality. Yet, we now have very authoritative studies that demonstrate, numbers in the hand, as a little more courage on the subject of legalization and the breaking of the prohibitionist scheme, for example, would cause very very serious damage, even incalculable to the main criminal organizations of this country. Not just those who attend a social center but the national anti-Mafia prosecutor, whose uprightness and seriousness we all know, finally helped to rip off this veil of hypocrisy that has been there all these years. The prohibitionist ideology has failed radically, the law that bears the name of Senator Giovanardi was, unfortunately, a sad ideological manifesto. The prisons of our country were filled with situations of this kind and, as we know well, since in February 2014 the Constitutional Court established the unconstitutionality of the Fini-Giovanardi law, many thousands of people found themselves in the really very negative situation of having to wait for a long time for the recognition of the right to obtain the recalculation of the penalties on the basis of the new legislation. In short, we are in a situation where we really need a little more courage from this Parliament to deal with these situations and to do as has been done in other parliaments in other European countries and even in some American states, where there is a very interesting experimentation on cannabis and its derivatives and on their therapeutic use. Moreover, in Italy there is the great theme of the contrast to the mafias and Camorra that would be deeply put in trouble by a more innovative regulation. Frankly, in this context, Parliament's deafness and the impossibility of dealing with this issue as if it were still a taboo seems to be out of time. We realize that the time is very little because we are in the final phase of the legislature but it would be very, very significant if, in the few months that remain, Parliament were to try to have a shot at this issue. For these reasons, we will vote very strongly in favour of the request for an urgent statement on our examination. [[Applause from the Misso-SI-SEL Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-890.ana.u18	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-890.ana.u19	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-890.ana.u20	FALANGA (ALA-SCLP). Madam President, the perimeter of the debate at this time is the request for urgent calendarisation presented by the Senator of the 5 Star Movement. Reasoning on the other hand means going off the subject, because we simply have to decide whether this matter deserves urgent attention from Parliament. Then, on the substance of the measure, Senator Giovanardi and others, who have their legitimate convictions, will be able to express them, possibly also through amendments; but we now, ladies and gentlemen, distracted colleagues, must make a decision that concerns the people who are suffering at the moment. I am referring to those who are undergoing chemotherapy and who suffer, because with the derivatives and active ingredients of cannabis it has been scientifically established that they can have a relief of their pain. If the product were regularly marketed and there was the possibility of finding this product in the pharmacies, I do not believe that Senator Ciampolillo and the other co-signators of the measure would have bothered to draft a law to be presented in this Senate. The problem lies right here and it is a problem that shames our country. In fact, while with the decree of 9 November 2015 the Minister of Health established, declared and allowed the marketing of products derived from cannabis, at the same time it did not activate to make this product available in the pharmacies of our country and therefore used by citizens. This is a shame. Hopefully, while we shall examine and examine the text, there might be some ministerial intervention to meet the demand for this medicine in pharmacies, and in this way the need to approve this measure would disappear. But, since that was not the case, since this is not and since I believe that this will not be the case, it seems legitimate to me to request that this Senate possibly examine as a matter of urgency a measure that can basically be defined as a DIY measure. If you think that those who have multiple sclerosis and are suffering, those who have spinal cord injuries and are suffering, those who are undergoing HIV or cancer therapy and who are suffering do not deserve the urgent attention of this Parliament and this Senate, you can say so with your vote against. I personally feel the discomfort, pain and suffering of these thousands of Italian citizens and therefore I can only vote in favour of the statement of urgency, inviting my Group to do the same. Then we will listen to the reasons of Senator Giovanardi and others, who are against this measure, and we will evaluate. But the urgency - and this is the question that arises today - I think it is legitimate, precisely because of the suffering of thousands of Italians. I therefore call on all Members to have a little sensitivity and say that we urgently need to address this issue. Then we will decide according to our consciences, but in the meantime it must be dealt with urgently, for a matter of respect not of the people who suffer, but of the suffering itself, as a condition of life of many Italians. [[Senator Milo's applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-890.ana.u21	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-890.ana.u22	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-890.ana.u23	RICHIUTI (Art. 1-MDP). Madam President, the issue we are dealing with here is very serious and sees many committed colleagues. The presentation of Mr Ciampollo, who is full of insults to this House, probably did not go in the direction of creating consensus. Despite the presentation by Mr Ciampollo, the Article 1-MDP Group will vote in favour of his proposal. [[Applause from the groups Art.1-MDP and Misto-SI-SEL.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-890.ana.u24	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-890.ana.u25	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-890.ana.u26	GAETTI (M5S). Madam President, it is a pleasure to say that it has been established that the use of cannabis for medical use is concrete, that it is drugs and that these are internationally tested scientific works. This is already a step forward. I would like to add that it is the use of drugs for therapeutic use and not for other situations, such as recreational use. This should be pointed out, because today these drugs are not available on the market, if not with great difficulty, and they are medicines that are used for serious diseases, chronic and disabling, with not indifferent costs, both in social and economic terms. On average, one month of therapy costs around 600 euros, which is borne by a National Health Service - in some regions, while in others it is paid - which, as we have seen today, is heavily underfunded. From this point of view you don't understand why you don't allow the use of... [[The microphone is automatically switched off.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-890.ana.u27	Senator Gaetti, see if you can use another microphone.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-890.ana.u28	GAETTI (M5S). I was saying that in some regions these drugs are distributed free of charge, in others they are charged to patients. It must be said that production has been proposed and started by the Pharmaceutical Institute in Florence, but this production is insufficient, as is insufficient the quantity that has been established to import from abroad. For these reasons, many of these patients fail to get the medicine. Moreover, I would like to point out that, unfortunately, some family members, seeing the situation so sad, have recovered the drug from the illegal market and, precisely because they are naive and not addicts, as you want to put it through, a lot of them are in prison. A few days ago some newspapers reported very sad stories, to which my solidarity goes. That is why we cannot understand why we want to ban self-production because we are unable to provide them with this which, I repeat, is a drug. The concept was also reiterated by the National Anti-Mafia Prosecutor. Therefore, there are all the situations and all the elements because we can approve this measure, which is a simple measure, a measure that does not liberalise anything, but gives the possibility to those who are sick (and, therefore, in possession of certification) to have four plants and to produce the dose they need to compensate for a pain, an important and disabling pain. I got to talk to some of these patients. You have to feel their suffering to understand it and, as a doctor, I fully understand it. I really urge everyone to vote for this measure, precisely because it meets the needs of people, needs for which we have a responsibility: we have not put them in a position to have a drug and we should take this into account. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-890.ana.u29	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-890.ana.u30	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-890.ana.u31	D'Ambrosio Lettieri (GAL (DI, GS, PPI, RI)). Madam President, on the subject of cannabis, scientific and ideological considerations and implications are interwoven. It goes from a commitment to support its diffusion and legalization for recreational purposes to another aspect (which, personally, finds me much more attentive and sensitive) that concerns the therapeutic use of cannabis for numerous pathologies: for multiple sclerosis, for lateral amyotrophic sclerosis, for all forms of analgesics in pathologies that lead spasticity as associated symptoms. I'm thinking, again, glaucoma. By now the scientific literature, documented by works with a very high impact factor, confirms that cannabis can and must return to be a substance of valid use for the control of certain pathologies with reference to the analgesic action and not only. Today's debate is whether or not to start with urgent procedure the examination of Mr Ciampollo's draft law. Personally, I will explain why I am against it. My opposition, while respecting the position of my colleague Ciampolillo and the aims that he proposes, finds its motivation first of all in wanting to maintain the scope of the legislation restricted to a purpose that is connected with therapeutic use according to the criteria and modalities that are regulated and disciplined of all substances with amazing and psychotropic action, as reported by Law No 38 of 2010. However, I remember (and here there are authoritative representatives of the Government who will also be able to confirm) the existence of a protocol of interministerial understanding, recently signed by the Minister of Health and that of the defense, which entrusts to the pharmaceutical plant of Florence the production of cannabis, also establishing the terms and conditions, until determining its absolute guarantee of satisfaction of the requirements that on the entire national territory, indeed, to date are not completely satisfied in terms of quantity and in terms of timeliness. In my opinion, this House could much more authoritatively and perhaps responsibly urge the relevant ministries to adopt the functional administrative acts, while harmonizing the behaviour of all the Italian regions. Another controversial problem, in fact, is free access to cannabis therapy, which only in eight regions is covered by public finance charges. In the remaining other regions are burdens that fall on the pockets of the city's bistreated, which is also unfortunate, because he is patient as sick. I believe that an act of harmonisation through administrative procedures can satisfy - even more quickly than the legislative process can do, especially at the end of a parliamentary term - the objectives we intend to set ourselves and propose ourselves. In this context of commitment and solicitation to the competent Ministry, I refer above all to the Ministry of Health, which is very sensitive and I know that in this sense it is particularly appreciated, you can also ask to intervene for a faster and more timely diffusion also through the pharmacies channel, for the purpose of the preparation of the magistral galenic preparations containing cannabis, in order to make them more and more easy to use by the patients entitled, equipped with the regular medical prescriptions. In this respect, illustrious colleagues, Madam President, I have expressed my thoughts. [[Applause from the LAG Group (DI, GS, PPI, RP).]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-890.ana.u32	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-890.ana.u33	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-890.ana.u34	Gasparri (FI-PdL XVII). Mr President, this is not the forum for a long and detailed debate on the subject of drug use. We are in fact discussing the request, legitimate under the Rules of Procedure, of urgency for a measure; the debate on the substance, on the other hand, which was in some respects anticipated by some intervention, would take place, take place or would have taken place (depending on what we decide, the temporal decline will be adapted) only later. There is, however, a procedural problem; the House of Deputies has been discussing this proposal for a long time, which came to Parliament a few months ago, where the general debate has already taken place. The proposal then returned to the Commission, where it was freely modified by the wishes of colleagues from the relevant Commissions. We must follow the progress of the work because Parliament has remained bicameral, but we are not out of date. Even if - I repeat - the request for urgency is in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, my Group does not agree with it on a procedural matter. The measure that has already been amended in the Commission, so much so that the rapporteur has resigned because the recreational play has been removed and the text has been limited to the therapeutic use of cannabis, should return to the attention of the House on 17 October. The House of Deputies, which has already incardinated the measure, has already discussed it in this House, brought back to the Commission and then, again, will return to this House, will do what it considers necessary. If and when the measure arrives at the Senate, we will make the assessments and discussions that compete with us in a bicameral system such as what is in Italy. I would therefore like to thank Senator De Cristofaro for clarifying the terms of the matter. In fact, he, who has very different positions from mine, motivated his Group's vote in favour as a signal and an openness towards wider use, towards the legalization of certain narcotic substances. He has also made it clear - I want to stress this at a time of political debate in which some parties pretend not to be of a certain orientation, but they want to make the security parties - that the 5 Star Movement proposes a more rapid discussion on forms of legalization of narcotic substances that then other groups say should be extended. There is, in fact, the whole debate, which I do not refer to here, on the drugs market. The procurator of the Republic of Catanzaro Gratteri, the greatest Italian protagonist of the fight against world drug trafficking, seeing the 'ndrangheta, alas, sometimes protagonist on the various shores of the oceans, from Latin America to Italy, has had to counter phenomena that pass through Italy, but that have a global dimension. A year ago we held a conference in the Koch Hall of the Senate, during which the Attorney Gratteri explained that the legalization of drugs - I reply so to Senator De Cristofaro - would not have the effect of blocking crime for two reasons: apart from the issues related to the damage of the therapeutic use of drugs, in whose merit I do not want to enter now, because the three quarters of the consumption of cannabis are attributable to minors and therefore legalization, even for those who propose it, could not be extended to such category, unless you want to propose this too. That's all we need, but it can't be done. So, three quarters of the store. It would remain so - I must imagine - an illegal market, unless we want to take drugs to schools as well. I would remind you that the proceeds from trade in cannabis and marijuana account for 3-4 percent of the total income from drug trafficking, largely linked to other more expensive substances. The richness of narcomafie prolifies in fact on the traffic of heroin, cocaine, chemical drugs and whatever else. Therefore, if legalisation were to take place, there would be 25 percent of the use of marijuana, since 75 percent is for minors, representing 3-4 percent of the total proceeds of the narcomafie. Then, we would intervene on a percentage equal to 0.8-1 percent. The source of this quotation is the prosecutor of the Republic of Catanzaro Gratteri, who has said it on many occasions and reiterated it also in the Koch Hall of the Senate. As for the therapeutic use of substances, I remember that it is already foreseen in our country: think of morphine, which is a painkiller. It is not that, by mutualizing this proposal, a person who - alas - must use morphine, which is prescribed by doctors (recently rules have been adopted that have improved the prescritivity of some drugs), starts the cultivation of poppies in the garden of the house. She grows it and makes it herself? No, obviously a doctor will prescribe morphine, which will be given according to certain methods. Also with regard to the issue of cannabis, it has been said by several colleagues that therapeutic use is already planned. Then, you can check if and how it works, but it is not the self-production of the substance on the balcony that solves the problem. Moreover, there are various modes and quantities of active substance. Every citizen gets to be a doctor? Next to me is Senator Mandelli, who is lucky to be a pharmacist and therefore knows how to recognize a drug and perhaps also produce. The rest of us who have a pain or a problem, what do we do? Are we going to make the medicine on the balcony? Who tells us that it complies with its specific qualities? I have a headache and produce Oki, Aulin or aspirin on the balcony. I don't know what concoction you're eating. What do doctors and pharmacists do if not to prescribe substances that, under normal conditions, no one would take? I mentioned the morphine case as a painkiller. It is not that a person cultivates the poppies at home, so he then takes the morphine if he has a pain. I therefore believe that the proposal is wrong. It has already been said that the cultivation of cannabis for therapeutic purposes has been entrusted by the institutions to the military pharmaceutical chemical plant in Florence. This institute, having a limited activity, allows the control of production so that the quantities produced do not go around for improper uses, but are destined for the production of medicines that are available (there will be few, many, we discuss them). In any case, the problem of care is not solved by the individual citizen on the balcony with four plants. One thing is to make a tea or a herbal tea, another thing is to make a drug. Frankly, if I have a problem, I address a doctor, who may prescribe a drug for me. All drugs, if taken in a normal condition, can cause damage (e.g., psychodrugs). Without prejudice to the fact that it is legitimate to propose it, but that it is equally legitimate to disagree and that we would have many other things to say on the subject, but here I stop, I remember that the House of Deputies is discussing it. Let's see what happens. The Members of the House, who have the same dignity and responsibility, have discussed it both in the Commission and in this House. It is being discussed with free and different positions. A decision of this kind has a symbolic value, I say it to my colleagues. Our opposition is not only out of respect for the House (the Senate could in fact say that it wants to talk about it), but also to avoid a non-therapeutic, but propaganda use of the urgency procedure. I thank those who said that this is a way to open the discussion on legalization tout court. I say to some of my colleagues that they first discussed the subject of some more specific thinking. We will vote calmly, but firmly against the urgency procedure, ready to discuss the health and medical aspects when and if the proposal arrives. In fact, treating people implies that what in normal use could be illegal and harmful, in pharmaceutical use can become healthy. I'm not a doctor, I'm not a pharmacist, but we all have experience with medicines. There are instructions and contraindications, because even the drug that does good, creates an evil. So you have to use it not by cultivating it on the balcony, but by addressing people who can tell us what to do and what not to do. The question is therefore not urgent, but serious; let us not deal with it superficially. That is why we shall vote against the request for an urgent statement. [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII and Senator Giovanardi.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-890.ana.u35	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-890.ana.u36	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-890.ana.u37	DE BIASI (PD). Madam President, first of all I would like to remind this House that a couple of years ago we voted on a measure which provided for the possibility of using off-label medicines. At the same time, we reviewed the legislation on cannabis and included the possibility of using it for therapeutic use. I would like to remind you of this because, out of intellectual honesty, Mr Ciampollo, you voted against that time. [[Applause from the PD Group]] Let us begin to clarify some things about intellectual honesty, because I believe that clarity is an important point in our relationship; moreover I am not used to insulting and I would not want to be insulted, neither I nor anyone in here believe. Secondly, Madam President, as other Members have pointed out, there is yet another problem which we have also seen in other situations, namely that of draft laws on the same subject which are already incarnate in the other House. Originally, the draft law concerned the liberalisation of cannabis; the investigation in the Commission led to restrict the subject exclusively to cannabis for therapeutic use. The bill, contrary to what Senator Ciampolillo has argued here, is far from dead, since it was incardinated for the examination by the Assembly of the House on 17 October, so it will obviously be examined and if it is examined it is not dead and if it is not dead it is difficult for us to incardinate it. In fact, at other times we have also experienced this conflict between the two chambers and we have resolved it in a very practical way, giving the branch of Parliament that had already incardinated the measure the opportunity to move forward with the work. This means that, being incardinated for October 17, it is assumed that it will arrive very soon in the Senate and on that occasion we will have the opportunity to discuss the matter. On this I would like to say very clearly that I believe it is uncivilised that sick people do not have access to cannabis for therapeutic use. I find it uncivilized because I believe that in the modern world this is an important drug. However, it is a drug, not something that one does as he pleases and likes. There are procedures, good manufacturing practices (GMP), international protocols; there are companies that produce inflorescence, those that produce the active substance and there are subjects that need to transform the active substance into medication. Otherwise - I repeat this once again, since we have already had the case of Stamina - one gets up one morning and decides that that is a remedy. Eh no, the drug must follow very precise scientific validation paths, also because, among other things, individual cultivation gives some problem compared to pollution, but it is a completely secondary problem. We'll discuss the matter when the bill arrives. It is certain that the military pharmaceutical chemical plant in Florence is not able, because it is small, to meet all the needs and therefore it is necessary that there are also other accredited and validated subjects for the production of cannabis for therapeutic use. We will then discuss the Galenic preparations, the areas within which this procedure can be developed, but one point must be clear: without scientific path there is no drug and if it is not medication, as far as I am concerned, it does not exist. This we owe to the right of the sick, more or less serious: to be treated in safety. That is why, Madam President, I believe that we must wait for the House's work and I do not agree with the proposal to examine the bill presented by Senator Ciampolillo. [[Applause from the PD Group and Senator Buemi.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-890.ana.u38	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-890.ana.u39	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-890.ana.u40	Hundreds of thousands (LN-Aut). Madam President, on the statement of urgency requested by the 5 Star Movement Group, we immediately declare our opposition to both method and substance. With regard to merit, as a Lega Group, if we are to deal with this issue, we will allow freedom of vote: every Senator of the Group will have the freedom to decide on his own conscience what to vote on, so at least everyone will have the opportunity to choose. But, given that the use of cannabis for therapeutic use already exists, we consider this measure unnecessary. We do not like the fact that such a measure is used simply to allow someone to make a small domestic plantation for who knows what. Our opposition is therefore above all on the method: we are not interested in dealing with it at this time simply because we believe that it is not a measure to be dealt with urgently. Our country has other urgent needs, colleagues: our country has the urgency of employment, of companies that leave and close, of the 170,000 young people who emigrate from our country every year, of illegal immigration, and certainly there is a security problem in our country. But we didn't see... [[Comments of Senator Ciampolillo]] Champollo, please... [[Senator Ciampolillo's comments.]] Dear colleague Ciampolillo of the 5 Star Movement... [[Comments of Senator Ciampolillo]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-890.ana.u41	Senator Ciampollo, you've already intervened, now let my colleague speak.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-890.ana.u42	[[Repented comments by Senator Ciampolillo]] Hundreds of thousands (LN-Aut). Champollo, shut up! Shut up for once in your life! PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator Centinario, speak to the presidency and not to Senator Ciampolillo. Hundreds of thousands (LN-Aut). Madam President, Senator Ciampolillo opens his mouth every time he has to catch air and, consequently, when he needs to catch air, he does... PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator, please respect your colleagues. [[Senator Ciampolillo's comments.]] Hundreds of thousands (LN-Aut). Champollo, shut up! Once in your life, shut up! PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator Centinario, don't pick up Senator Ciampolillo's interruptions. Hundreds of thousands (LN-Aut). Campollo, grab the microphone, ask for the floor... Senator Centinario, finish your speech. Senator Ciampolillo has already intervened. Hundreds of thousands (LN-Aut). So let's keep him quiet for once. We said that, with regard to the method of provision, our country has other priorities. As a result, we believe that the urgency had to be asked about something else. The 5 Star Movement Group has as its priority cannabis, while the League has other priorities: work, security and things that affect our country. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group and Senator Rizzotti. Comments of Senators Cappelletti and Ciampolillo.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-890.ana.u43	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-890.ana.u44	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-890.ana.u45	BUEMI (Aut (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT)-PSI-MAIE). Madam President, as I am one of the signatories to the bill, my interest in having an urgent measure approved is out of the question. In a certain way, it could be divisive but, given the therapeutic purpose, we should all agree on the possibility of bringing it to the approval of the two rooms as quickly as possible. That is why I agree with the position taken by the competent President of the Commission, because if the measure is incardinated to the House and is already on the agenda for 17 October, it is absolutely inefficient, contradictory and divergent in its positive intentions to bring it to this House too. The measure is quickly approved and I would add, although I am in favour of a free use of light drugs of a different approach from therapeutic one, that I believe that the therapeutic part should be safeguarded and that there should be everyone's commitment to this. Consequently, I also voted against the request for urgency, because urgency is inherent in the inclusion of the measure in the Chamber of Deputies on the agenda.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-890.ana.u46	I put to the vote the request for an urgent statement, pursuant to Rule 77 of the Rules of Procedure, on the draft law n. 2768, made by Senator Ciampolillo and other senators. It's not approved. CHAMPOLILLO (M5S). Let's ask for a rehearsal. [[Comments of Senator Mirabelli]] Senator Ciampolillo, it is forbidden to film in this House, so please refrain. I order the doors closed. We proceed to counter-test by electronic procedure. It's not approved.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-890.ana.u47	Ladies and gentlemen, for a temporary but justified lack of availability by the rapporteur of the measure covered by the next item on the agenda, I have, pursuant to Rule 56, paragraph 3, the reversal of the discussion of the items on the agenda. So let us move on to the ratifications of international agreements.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-890.ana.u48	The next item is the debate on the draft law No 2807, already approved by the House of Deputies. The rapporteur, Senator De Pietro, asked for permission to carry out the oral report. No comments were made and the request was accepted. I therefore call the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-890.ana.u49	Madam President, the House is called upon to examine the draft law, already approved by the House of Members, for the ratification of three international agreements signed by the European Union on the air transport sector: the first is with Israel, the second with Moldova and the third is with Iceland and Norway. The Agreement with Israel, signed in June 2013, responds to the need to liberalise market access, create new investment opportunities for Member States and ensure equal rights and opportunities for EU and Israeli air carriers. The objective is to establish a liberalised airspace between the European Union, its Member States and the State of Israel, within which carriers of both parties will be able to establish themselves freely, provide their services on a fair and equal basis, and be subject to equivalent and harmonised regulatory conditions. The measure replaces previous agreements, which are already in force and should facilitate the process of consolidation of players in the sector, in order to guarantee them the best conditions to deal with the dynamics of an increasingly complex market. The Common Aviation Area Agreement with Moldova also responds for similar purposes. In addition to liberalising market access and creating new investment opportunities, the text aims to ensure equal rights and opportunities for all air carriers in the area, by imposing compliance with the same rules on aviation safety, air traffic management and environmental aspects. The last Agreement extends to Iceland and Norway the existing provisions on air transport between the European Union and the United States. Again, the aim of the text is to liberalise market access, to create new investment opportunities and to guarantee equal rights and opportunities for air carriers. The extension to the two Nordic countries, which do not belong to the European Union, but are part of the European Common Aviation Area, will ensure a coherent regulatory framework for flights between the United States and the single European aviation market. The draft law ratifying the three Agreements consists of four articles which form the basis respectively of the authorization to ratify, the order of execution, the clause of financial invariance and the entry into force. There are no economic burdens. The ratification of international instruments does not present any profiles of incompatibility with national legislation, EU law or other international obligations assumed by Italy. In conclusion, I propose the adoption of the bill by the Assembly.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-890.ana.u50	I declare the general discussion open. He's enlisted to speak Senator Stucchi. As he is not present in the Chamber, he is intended to speak again. The general debate is closed. I put to the vote Rule 1. It's approved. We shall now proceed to the vote on Rule 2. CHAMPOLILLO (M5S). We call for the vote to be taken by simultaneous ballot by electronic means. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Rule 2. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the vote on Rule 3. CHAMPOLILLO (M5S). We call for the vote to be taken by simultaneous ballot by electronic means. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Rule 3. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the vote on Rule 4. CHAMPOLILLO (M5S). We call for the vote to be taken by simultaneous ballot by electronic means. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Rule 4. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B).
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-890.ana.u51	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-890.ana.u52	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-890.ana.u53	WRITER IN TOR (AP-CpE-NCD). Madam President, air transport is an increasingly important sector for the international economy and is increasingly difficult to manage, also because of the increase in the overall volume of traffic. These Agreements must be welcomed because they increase international cooperation in this area, simplify traffic management and guarantee equal conditions of competition for operators in different countries. That is why I declare the Group's vote in favour.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-890.ana.u54	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-890.ana.u55	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-890.ana.u56	LUCIDES (M5S). Madam President, I am voting in favour, as we have already shown for the individual articles, of this bill. Here too, we reiterate what we have already said many other times here: we contest that the ratifications of several international treaties are combined into a single bill, if, in this case, for relevant matters, therefore much more congruent than at other times. However, these treaties were concluded with foreign countries quite different from each other, so it would have been preferable to have a specific analysis for each individual treaty, on a case-by-case basis. We reaffirm our approach and attitude, which always provides for ratification by individual treaty. We have done so throughout the parliamentary term and we continue to repeat it. I shall end by repeating our vote in favour of this draft law.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-890.ana.u57	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-890.ana.u58	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-890.ana.u59	MALAN (FI-PdL XVII). Madam President, I would like to say that, on several occasions, Forza Italia has asked for ratifications to be dealt with by treaty, as has just been said by my colleague (we are in agreement on this). However, we are voting in favour because we are in favour of each of these ratifications. It would be good if the Government, since it was repeatedly urged, and not only by us, to present Treaty ratifications, would decide to do so by showing that it was listening to Parliament and not just using it as a tool for a stamp. We are not a bureaucratic office, we are one of the two Chambers of Parliament and Parliament as a whole has the right to speak on every single Treaty. Try next time to do so and not simply to say that you accept this note and then forget it at the time of presenting the bills.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-890.ana.u60	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-890.ana.u61	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-890.ana.u62	Sangalli (PD). Madam President, in announcing the Democratic Party's vote in favour of the draft law in our examination, I too take the opportunity to make two methodological considerations on the issue of ratifications. The first is that the interventions which have been made on the homogeneity of the topics and themes to be dealt with are correct. I would add, however, another consideration, which is not in conflict with the previous one but is adjuvandum. We, as has also been seen today in the Justice and Foreign Affairs Commissions, have a legacy of ratifications that historically come to our examination after many years. During this parliamentary term, we have greatly intensified the ratification of the international treaties and conventions. It would be useful if, from the methodological point of view - and this is not so much a problem for the Government as a problem of the relationship between Parliament and the Government - we were to act for homogeneous sections and also for ratification sessions so that we could work more efficiently and with the appropriate attention to subjects of extreme importance, as in the case of ratification in our examination, but which pass as an automatism. In order to avoid all this, perhaps some ratification sessions that allow us to work in a homogeneous way and on blocks of ratification would also make sure that our country presents itself punctually to the international ratifications.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-890.ana.u63	I warmly greet on behalf of the Assembly the delegation of the Hemato-oncological Children's Association of Brescia who are attending our work. Welcome to the Senate. We wish them and their parents well. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-890.ana.u64	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-890.ana.u65	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-890.ana.u66	CHAMPOLILLO (M5S). We call for the vote to be taken by simultaneous ballot by electronic means.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-890.ana.u67	I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I refer to the nominal vote by simultaneous ballot of the bill as a whole. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B).
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-890.ana.u68	The next item is the debate on the draft law No 2808, already approved by the House of Deputies. The rapporteur, Senator Fattorini, requested authorisation to carry out the oral report. No comments were made and the request was accepted. I therefore call the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-890.ana.u69	Madam President, the draft law before us, which has already been approved by the House, brings about the ratification of six international agreements on scientific, cultural and educational cooperation signed with the United Arab Emirates, Malta, Montenegro, Senegal, Slovakia and Slovenia. The Cooperation Agreement with the United Arab Emirates in the field of culture, art and heritage stems from the intensification of bilateral trade relations and the increase in cultural exchanges, within the framework of renewed political cooperation. The text aims to promote the understanding of their cultural heritage and the dissemination and teaching of their languages in the other country, as well as cooperation in the fields of music, visual arts, theatre, cinema and all other artistic forms, supporting bilateral cooperation between different institutions and cultural associations. The Agreement with Malta, consisting of a preamble and 15 articles, updates the political and regulatory framework dating back to the previous bilateral agreement of 1967. It aims to promote and promote initiatives, exchanges and collaborations in the cultural sector, with particular reference to the protection and enhancement of the archaeological heritage of the two countries. The Agreement on Scientific and Technological Cooperation with Montenegro, signed in September 2013, aims to establish, promote and support joint scientific and technological initiatives. The agreement, which is the first of its kind between the two countries, is also intended to promote the integration of Montenegro into the framework of the European process, encouraging its participation in multilateral programmes promoted by the European Union, as well as by specific regional bodies such as the Central European Initiative. The Agreement with Senegal replaces an earlier agreement dating back to 1974. The new Agreement will strengthen bilateral cultural relations, contribute to the improvement of the Senegalese cultural and educational system, to the dissemination of scientific knowledge and research, with positive effects also in relation to development cooperation interventions. There are also some forecasts for the valorization of the Senegalese community in Italy, for interuniversity collaboration and for the support of Italian teaching in Senegal. The Agreement with Slovakia, signed in July 2015 (i.e. recently), aims to provide a framework for cultural, scientific and technological cooperation between the two countries, taking into account the variety and quality of existing bilateral relations. Also in this case we want to respond to the strong demand for Italian language and culture in the Slovak territory and encourage the start of collaborations in the field of scientific and technological research. On the other hand, the Agreement with Slovenia is limited to the fields of culture and education. The understanding replaces a previous Agreement dating back to 1960 and also contains forecasts to facilitate cultural relations between the minorities of both sides in their respective territories. The draft ratification law consists of four articles, which concern the authorization to ratify, the order of execution, the financial cover and the entry into force. The total costs for the six Agreements are estimated at around 1,400,000 euros per year. In conclusion, I propose the adoption of the bill by the Assembly.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-890.ana.u70	I declare the general discussion open. He's enlisted to speak Senator Stucchi. As he is not present in the Chamber, he is intended to speak again. She is registered to speak Senator Montevecchi. As he is not present in the Chamber, he is intended to speak again. The general debate is closed. We shall proceed to the vote on Rule 1. MARTELLI (M5S). We call for the vote to be taken by simultaneous ballot by electronic means. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Article 1. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the vote on Rule 2. MARTELLI (M5S). We call for the vote to be taken by simultaneous ballot by electronic means. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Rule 2. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the vote on Rule 3. MARTELLI (M5S). We call for the vote to be taken by simultaneous ballot by electronic means. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Rule 3. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the vote on Rule 4. MARTELLI (M5S). We call for the vote to be taken by simultaneous ballot by electronic means. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Rule 4. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B).
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-890.ana.u71	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-890.ana.u72	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-890.ana.u73	WRITER IN TOR (AP-CpE-NCD). Madam President, in this draft law we are dealing with agreements with different countries, but they have a unity of content. The common objective is, in fact, to intensify international cooperation in the cultural field, scientific research and education. This is certainly a goal that can be shared, especially for a country like ours, which in these areas boasts of world excellence. The measures will also facilitate the dissemination of the knowledge of the Italian language in the world. That is why the Group of the People's Alternative will vote in favour.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-890.ana.u74	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-890.ana.u75	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-890.ana.u76	LUCIDES (M5S). Madam President, here too we are responding to what has been said earlier, although this time we are more substantial because we are ratifying agreements that we have made with countries that are quite disparate because we are talking about the Arab Emirates, Malta, Montenegro, Senegal, the Slovak Republic and Slovenia. They are, therefore, different countries and would deserve a different analysis because each has its own undisputed criticalities. This is just one of the aspects I want to remain in the proceedings as an analysis made by the 5 Star Movement. A historical and chronological fact emerges because these Agreements date back to 2007, 2012 and 2013. It's been years and almost ten years. This makes us doubt the effectiveness of a cultural cooperation agreement ten years after its conclusion. We reiterate once again the concept that surely it is necessary to ratify the Agreements individually in order to judge, analyze and fully understand the criticalities and positive aspects of the individual treaty and, above all, it is necessary that this happens in a contextual way to the conclusion of the Agreement itself in order to give form and substance to the words that we ratify with the Allied countries. Despite this, as it is a sort of sanatorium of the Treaties on cultural, scientific and technological cooperation, we understand their validity and we will not miss our contribution to this measure. If it is not clear, the 5 Star Movement will vote in favour of this measure. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-890.ana.u77	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-890.ana.u78	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-890.ana.u79	MARTELLI (M5S). We call for the vote to be taken by simultaneous ballot by electronic means.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-890.ana.u80	I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I refer to the nominal vote by simultaneous ballot of the bill as a whole. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B).
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-890.ana.u81	The next item is the debate on the draft law No 2809, already approved by the House of Deputies. The rapporteur, Senator Bertorotta, asked for permission to carry out the oral report. No comments were made and the request was accepted. I therefore call the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-890.ana.u82	Madam President, the agreement broadly follows the model set out by the OECD in the framework of tax transparency initiatives and appears to be in line with the multilateral guidelines for combating the phenomenon of international tax evasion. The text promotes cooperation between the tax administrations of the two parties through an exchange of information on taxation, in order to ensure that adequate levels of transparency are achieved. The taxes subject to the possible exchange of information are - for Italy - IRPEF, IRES, the regional tax on production activities, VAT and taxes on donations and inheritances. The understanding regulates the modalities of the development of the cooperation, regulating in detail the types of information that can be requested and providing, among other things, the overcoming of the banking secrecy. It regulates the possibility for the parties to carry out tax checks in their respective territories, as well as the hypotheses in which it is possible for one of the parties to avoid the information request. The final part of the Agreement lays down procedures for the amicable settlement of any disputes arising from the application and interpretation of the text and regulates the entry into force and the manner in which the complaint is made. The draft ratification law under consideration consists of three articles. No financial charges are foreseen. In conclusion, I propose the adoption of the bill by the Assembly.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-890.ana.u83	As you are not included in the general discussion and as the rapporteur and the representative of the Government do not intend to speak in response, we shall proceed to the examination of the articles in the text approved by the House of Deputies. We shall proceed to the vote on Rule 1. MARTELLI (M5S). We call for the vote to be taken by simultaneous ballot by electronic means. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Article 1. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the vote on Rule 2. MARTELLI (M5S). We call for the vote to be taken by simultaneous ballot by electronic means. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Rule 2. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the vote on Rule 3. MARTELLI (M5S). We call for the vote to be taken by simultaneous ballot by electronic means. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Rule 3. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B).
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-890.ana.u84	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-890.ana.u85	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-890.ana.u86	WRITER IN TOR (AP-CpE-NCD). Madam President, the Agreement on Tax Cooperation with Costa Rica is a new stage in the process of strengthening the fight against international tax evasion in the same way as the latest agreements in this area by our country. This Agreement follows the model drawn up by the OECD, which is now internationally agreed and recognised. That is why the Popular Alternative Group will vote in favour of the measure.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-890.ana.u87	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-890.ana.u88	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-890.ana.u89	PETROCELLI (M5S). Madam President, we are very much in favour of transparency in tax declarations of this kind and will therefore vote in favour of this measure.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-890.ana.u90	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-890.ana.u91	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-890.ana.u92	Sangalli (PD). Madam President, I am voting in favour of the Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-890.ana.u93	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-890.ana.u94	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-890.ana.u95	MARTELLI (M5S). We call for the vote to be taken by simultaneous ballot by electronic means.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-890.ana.u96	I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I refer to the nominal vote by simultaneous ballot of the bill as a whole. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B).
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-890.ana.u97	The next item is the debate on draft law No 2823. The working rapporteur, Senator Corsini, requested permission to carry out the oral report. No comments were made and the request was accepted. I therefore call the working rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-890.ana.u98	Madam President, this agreement concerns the service of the so-called "railway" between Italy and France. It is a service for the transport of goods through the use of special railway wagons that allow the transport on rail of TIR and container through the tunnel of Frejus. This combined transport service is a more environmentally sustainable alternative to road transport. The project was launched experimentally in November 2003 by a joint-owned company between Trenitalia and the French Railway Company. The service was renewed several times, until June 2013, pending a new agreement between the parties. The company had a new authorisation from the European Commission in 2015, pending a new tender procedure for the award of the ten-year concession, starting in June 2018. The purpose of this Agreement is therefore to stabilise this transport service by establishing the regulatory framework for its operation. The text defines the obligations of the parties, referring the precise discipline to a subsequent contract between the two Governments and the service manager. The Agreement also provides that the Italian and French Governments may, in compliance with Community rules, agree and define, within the framework of a financing agreement, a fair distribution of the grants and contributions necessary for the management of the service. The Treaty entrusts a dedicated working group with the task of preparing and carrying out the procedure for selecting the service manager, as well as drawing up the draft financing agreement. The draft ratification law consists of four articles concerning the approval of ratification, order of execution, financial coverage and entry into force. In relation to the technical and financial aspects, the government report specifies that the costs for the continuation of the project have already been allocated by the Stability Act for 2016, for a total amount of more than 29 million euros to cover the period 2013-2018. In turn, the Stability Act for 2017 provided the allocation of EUR 10 million, for each of the years 2018 to 2022, to ensure the financial coverage of the project. On the other hand, the burden of the Treaty under consideration is minimal, because it concerns only mission expenses to participate in the joint meetings, and is estimated at around €7,500 per year. The Agreement does not present any profiles of incompatibility with national legislation, with Community law and with other international obligations already assumed by our country. In conclusion, I propose the adoption of the bill by the Assembly.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-890.ana.u99	As you are not included in the general discussion, and as the working rapporteur and the representative of the Government do not intend to intervene in the reply, we shall proceed to the examination of the articles. We shall now proceed to the examination of Article 1, on which an agenda has been tabled which is intended to be presented and on which I invite the acting rapporteur and the representative of the Government to give their opinion.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-890.ana.u100	Madam President, I am against the agenda.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-890.ana.u101	Madam President, the Government's opinion is in line with that of the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-890.ana.u102	Senator Scibona, do you insist on voting on the agenda G1,100? SCIBONA (M5S). Yes, Madam President. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. We shall now proceed to the vote on the agenda. SCIBONA (M5S). We call for simultaneous ballots to be carried out by electronic means. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot on agenda G1,100, tabled by Senator Scibona. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Article 1. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the vote on Rule 2. MARTELLI (M5S). We call for the vote to be taken by simultaneous ballot by electronic means. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Rule 2. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the vote on Rule 3. MARTELLI (M5S). We call for the vote to be taken by simultaneous ballot by electronic means. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Rule 3. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the vote on Rule 4. MARTELLI (M5S). We call for the vote to be taken by simultaneous ballot by electronic means. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Rule 4. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B).
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-890.ana.u103	We shall now proceed to the final vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-890.ana.u104	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-890.ana.u105	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-890.ana.u106	Madam President, the Agreement stabilizes a service, the so-called motorway between Italy and France, which has been active for several years now. It is a freight service which, by carrying out on rails and using existing infrastructure, is obviously more environmentally sustainable than the alternative on rubber. It is a strategic agreement and for this reason our Group will vote in favour.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-890.ana.u107	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-890.ana.u108	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-890.ana.u109	COMAROLI (LN-Aut). Madam President, I am voting in favour of the Lega Nord Group. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-890.ana.u110	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-890.ana.u111	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-890.ana.u112	SCIBONA (M5S). Madam President, with regard to the ratification of the Agreement between the Italian and French Governments on the implementation of the stimulation of the Alpine Railway (AFA) service, I would like to point out that it causes many problems despite the fact that the whole House says that it is okay. First of all, before leaving with the critical issues, I wanted to thank, as always, the caring President Casini who automatically rejects requests for hearings for these issues. In fact, he probably escapes the truth or is afraid of data. You always have to go for ideology. Let us start with the only positive thing: we are talking about rail transport. Yes, but it must be said that the name is misleading because it makes you imagine something simple and functional: the transport of trucks on iron, which removes polluting loads and more from the environment. Actually, it's not like that at all. With regard to the Alpine motorway, it is a very cumbersome, mechanical and irony system with regard to not so much the rails, but the wagon. The wagon has a huge weight, because it is structured in such a way that it can discharge in any stretch, during the journey, any means and TIR loaded. It must be remembered that the carried TIR is complete of motor, that it carries an exorbitant tara that frustrates the goodness of the railway transport. In fact, we are also talking about the transport of drivers, who should be on one of the passenger carriages connecting to this convoy, to ensure that on arrival they can restart automatically. The idea would also be good in itself, but it is inapplicable to the italo-French corridor that goes from Aiton to Orbassano, because the length of this route is so short that it does not allow drivers to follow up to be able to start again on arrival, as they have not taken enough break from work and have to stop anyway. In fact, you can see that this system doesn't work because the drivers don't go there. Then there are another series of problems related to the same modalohr, because loading the TIR trailer on the modalohr wagon triggers, for example, a dual springing system. Then, the actual springing of the wagon is added to that of the trailer. This means that the load can swing much more than a traditional train or train. To this we go to add the works done in the current tunnel Frejus (the historical one, what would not exist according to the majority of those present, since you continue to talk about TAV Torino-Lion, because the railway is missing, but the tunnel is there). All the work done in that tunnel by the Italian and French States has been completed for years. However, while on the Italian side a lowering of the iron plane has meant that the tunnel has a PC80 shape and is usable, on the French side the interaxes between the tracks have been approached, with the consequence that there could be a hidden possibility of 2,5 centimeters of intersection between the two convoys. Considering the fact that most of these convoys are placed inside the Frejus tunnel because they carry dangerous goods, you understand that having an intersection of 2 centimeters between two convoys carrying dangerous goods could cause serious damage. This is the most technical part. In addition, it must be remembered that the encouragement of recent years has not led to any results whatsoever. Money - public money, of course - is absolutely wasted. This money goes into Mr Modalohr's pockets rather than into a real transfer of rubber goods to iron. I would remind you that the second tube of the Frejus tunnel has always been approved in this House. We have for months in the Commission an assigned affair which does not move to assess the actual goodness of the realization of this second tube. I always remember briefly that, authorized as an emergency rod, the day after the signing of the contracts was transformed into a free-transit reed, so going to encourage the transport on rubber, which you continue to say you want to oppose. You give the money to this system, pretending to fight the rubber, and you're actually encouraging it. This money could very well be used for an incentive of traditional transport on iron with low chests and flats, which instead absolutely fail to leave. Those who take care of the TAV Torino-Lione know that there are no goods and that therefore it is useless to continue to encourage transport of goods on that route, because in the end there are none. There is therefore double damage, because on the one hand we are encouraging a retrograde system that does not work and that is potentially dangerous and on the other we are doing it knowingly and politically convinced, because we must continue to pursue an unhealthy idea of an international infrastructure that has no future and did not even have it twenty years ago. Obviously this is not a transport or ecological choice, but it is a political choice to continue to sell cement and rod. In practice the proposals of the 5 Star Movement were these and I summarize them for brevity: incentives to conventional combined rail transport; toll of the transport on rubber disincentive and ad hoc taxes to discourage the use of rubber; limitation of the passages in the highway tunnels like the second highway rod of the Frejus; repression of the phenomenon of the vans for uses of distances beyond 150-200 kilometers, because they go to avoid the safety rules of the drivers; creation of the political and diplomatic conditions so that the neighbor France takes the necessary structural measures and finishes the works (until badly done) of modernization of the France side silhouette, in order to ensure that the tunnel has on all its way a profile shaped limit PC 80, as currently is not. All this says that the Treaty cannot work and cannot be approved. I did not discuss the agenda before, because I am not interested in an agenda, but in blocking one hundred and more millions of euros going to be thrown or burned in the air. We know that the obstinacy of the parties of these classrooms with regard to the Alpine railway highway is not closely linked to the Alpine motorway, but to the great work that needs to go forward in order to get the fat from the tunnels and from these lines. Therefore, although it will certainly be useless, I would ask you to vote against this treaty which really does not make any sense. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-890.ana.u113	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-890.ana.u114	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-890.ana.u115	EXPOSED Stefano (PD). Madam President, I will speak very briefly because I believe that this ratification is particularly important, because, in addition to taking up a path which began in 2003, unlike what I heard in the last speech, it is precisely an objective that Italy has set itself, that is to remove rubber from the road, to move on to iron transport. I am always surprised to hear against these initiatives representatives of the 5 Star Movement, who always say that they believe that a smarter Italy is necessary, with more attention to the environment. Let us be clear: we practice this work every day. I'm glad my colleague Scibona thinks it's funny. [[Comments of Senator Scibona]] On the other hand, I find it very funny that the arguments of the rubber lobby are used to counter iron transport. These resources are not given away and are not badly spent: these resources, my colleague Scibona, are invested to do exactly what you say when you make propaganda. But we note, however, that, when there are measures affecting rubber in favour of iron, you are voting against it. It is a habit that you have very often: tell something outside, but in this House you always make a different one. [[Applause from the PD Group. Senator Cioffi suggests he wants to intervene]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-890.ana.u116	Senator Cioffi, Senator Scibona has already spoken for his Group.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-890.ana.u117	MARTELLI (M5S). There is also a dissenting vote! EXPOSED Stefano (PD). If you disagree, you will then have to vote differently from your Group.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-890.ana.u118	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote in dissent from my Group.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-890.ana.u119	I take note of that and give you the floor.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-890.ana.u120	CIOFFI (M5S). Madam President, I am not going to vote against my group because the words spoken by Senator Scibona do not represent exactly the whole reality. The reality is what Senator Stefano Esposito wanted us to demonstrate when he said that we are in favour of the rubber lobby. But if we were in favour of the rubber lobby, it would be very interesting to understand why people in this country continue to finance those who use rubber and do not intervene strongly against those who run the road and motorway systems. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] I would like to fully understand whether our position in favour of the lobby is the same position that I have heard from many quarters, when it comes to iron treatment, but then in reality nothing has been done, since we continue to finance the oil-based system. Therefore, in dissent, in truth not so much by Senator Scibona as by Senator Stefano Esposito, I will not participate in the vote. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-890.ana.u121	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-890.ana.u122	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-890.ana.u123	MARTELLI (M5S). We call for the vote to be taken by simultaneous ballot by electronic means.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-890.ana.u124	I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I refer to the nominal vote by simultaneous ballot of the bill as a whole. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B).
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-890.ana.u125	The next item is the debate on draft law No 2772. The rapporteur, Senator Sangalli, has requested authorisation to carry out the oral report. No comments were made and the request was accepted. I therefore call the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-890.ana.u126	Madam President, I would like to draw the House's attention to this rather complex matter, which concerns research into advanced physics. These are the ratifications of three very important treaties which have seen, among other things, the Commission engaged and the rapporteur dealing with the most important research centres in Italy and operating in the countries mentioned. (The sitting was suspended at 18.19 p.m. and resumed at 18.19 p.m.) It is also a political act of great importance, because in one of the societies that I will shortly mention is Russia's entry as a partner at a stage in which relations between the member countries of society and Russia itself are rather complicated from a geopolitical point of view. The Assembly is called upon to authorize the ratification of three international treaties relating to two prestigious scientific research centres. The first relates to the construction and operation of the European X-ray laser plant (XFEL), by the International TESLA Project, for the development of a large accelerator for the physics of elementary particles. The Convention aims to create a large European research infrastructure, costing over EUR 1.2 billion, located in Germany, to open up new research opportunities in the fields of solid state physics, materials science, nanotechnologies, medicine and structural microbiology. The infrastructure, which has just been completed, is considered to be an essential project for research prospects in Europe. The project's contracting parties are 11 countries in the European Union, including all the largest countries, in addition to Switzerland and Russia. Italian participation takes place through the National Research Council and the National Institute of Nuclear Physics. The construction and operation of the plant is entrusted to a company with limited liability under German law, of which the Convention defines the bodies and the procedures for appointment and revocation. The Convention also regulates the financing of each Contracting Party and defines the criteria for the use of the installation. The most significant financial commitment is obviously supported by Germany, which hosts the operational infrastructure, with 580 million euros, followed by Russia, with 250 million euros, and France with 36 million euros. Italy, with the signing of the Convention, has undertaken to pay a contribution of 33 million euros. The second Treaty, which governs the accession of Spain, has been included in this draft law following the approval in the Commission of a government amendment. The Protocol provides for the accession of Spain to take place under the same conditions as the other parties, with a contribution from that country in 11 million euros, without altering the percentage of the shares of the other participating countries. There are therefore no new or higher charges on the Italian budget. The third treaty before us is Russia's Protocol of Accession to the 1988 Convention on the European Synchrotron Radiation Facility (ESRF) in Grenoble. The laboratory is an excellent example of scientific cooperation between 22 partner countries, including Israel, India and South Africa, as well as 13 European countries. The laboratory is one of the most important research centres in the world in the field of condensed matter physics, molecular biology and material science. Russia's accession to the Convention will be achieved through the acquisition of 6% of the company's shares and the payment by Moscow of a one-off contribution of EUR 10 million, as compensation for infrastructure construction costs. The draft law ratifying the three Treaties consists of five articles concerning the authorization to ratify, the order of execution, the scientific participation of the National Research Council and the National Institute of Nuclear Physics, the financial cover and the entry into force. For the European laser plant there is a charge of approximately EUR 3.5 million per year. The measure on the Grenoble laboratory, thanks to the entry of a new contributor, Russia, allows a saving for Italy, which is quantified in about 1.6 million euros annually. In conclusion, I would like to point out that the measures under consideration provide for a strengthening of scientific cooperation between Europe and Russia, which is certainly a positive fact and we hope will be a hope for a more general resumption of cooperation between these areas, including geopolitical cooperation. I therefore propose the adoption of the draft law, thus articulated, by the Assembly.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-890.ana.u127	As you have not been included in the general discussion and as the rapporteur and the representative of the Government do not intend to intervene in the reply, we shall proceed to the examination of the articles in the text proposed by the Commission. We shall proceed to the vote on Rule 1. SANTANGELO (M5S). We call for the vote to be taken by simultaneous ballot by electronic means. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Article 1. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the vote on Rule 2. SANTANGELO (M5S). We call for the vote to be taken by simultaneous ballot by electronic means. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Rule 2. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the vote on Rule 3. SANTANGELO (M5S). We call for the vote to be taken by simultaneous ballot by electronic means. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Rule 3. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the vote on Rule 4. SANTANGELO (M5S). We call for the vote to be taken by simultaneous ballot by electronic means. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Rule 4. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the vote on Rule 5. SANTANGELO (M5S). We call for the vote to be taken by simultaneous ballot by electronic means. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Rule 5. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B).
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-890.ana.u128	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-890.ana.u129	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-890.ana.u130	WRITER IN TOR (AP-CpE-NCD). Madam President, I am voting in favour of the People's Alternative Group.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-890.ana.u131	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-890.ana.u132	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-890.ana.u133	BERTOROTTA (M5S). Madam President, I pay for the briefness of the previous speaker. The measure is quite complex and, therefore, I have something to add. The Convention for the Construction of a European Laser Plant and the Protocol of Accession of Russia to it have two very interesting elements, one of a technical-scientific nature and one of a political and economic nature. From the point of view of science and technology, the Convention for the Construction of a European Free X-ray Electron Laser Plant, signed in 2009, opens the doors of X-ray lasers to new horizons. That should be said. The applications of this technology cover different fields, from pharmaceuticals to biotechnology, from the chemical, food, construction, transport, nanotechnologies and energy sector conductors to metallurgy and new materials. One of the objectives is to recognise waste and then separate it, with a reduction in collection and differentiation costs. It is a revolutionary technique and not by chance this laboratory is considered one of the most ambitious projects in the framework of the roadmaps elaborated by the European Strategy Forum on Research Infrastructures (ESFRI), to define the needs of international research infrastructures for the next twenty years. From a political and economic point of view, this is one of the many inclusive projects - it was not by chance signed in 2009 - which also involve Russia, which joined in 2012, before the Ukrainian chaos and the tightening up of bilateral relations with the European Union. We therefore believe that involving as many countries as possible in these projects is the right path, which brings benefits not only for the future but also for the immediate future. In fact, the technical and financial report of the Convention, relating to the construction and operation of a European XFEL plant, provides annual quotas of our country in the order of 4.74 million euros for the year 2017, 3.43 million euros for 2018 and 3.49 for 2019. Russia's entry into the project reduced the Italian contribution from 13.6 million euros to about 12 million euros, saving 1.6 million euros for the state budget. There is a series of critical issues related, instead, to our specific weight within the project, which could certainly be greater also in virtue of the know-how that our country can bring as contribution in nature, as expected, among other things, by the Convention. Faced with our economic and technical-scientific resources, we weigh three percent within the company that manages the project, but we still represent a significant amount, in the order of 33 million euros total. Having said that, the Senate Group of the 5 Star Movement declares the vote in favour of the Convention and the Protocol of Russia's accession to our examination. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-890.ana.u134	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-890.ana.u135	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-890.ana.u136	SANTANGELO (M5S). We call for the vote to be taken by simultaneous ballot by electronic means.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-890.ana.u137	I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I would like to refer to the vote by a simultaneous ballot of the draft law as a whole in the amended text as a result of the amendments introduced by the Commission, with the following title: Ratification and execution of the following Treaties: A) Convention on the Construction and Operation of a European Free X-ray Electron Laser Plant, with annexes, made in Hamburg on 30 November 2009; B) Protocol of accession of the Government of the Russian Federation to the Convention of 16 December 1988 on the Construction and Management of the European Synchronous Radiation Laboratory (ESRF), done in Grenoble on 23 June 2014 and in Paris on 15 July 2014; C) Protocol to the Convention on the Construction and Operation of a European Free X-ray Electron Laser Plant concerning the accession of the Government of the Kingdom of Spain, with Annex, made in Berlin on 6 October 2011 (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B).
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-890.ana.u138	The next item is the debate on the draft Constitutional Law No 2643-B, already approved by the House of Deputies in first resolution; amended by the Senate in first resolution; again approved by the House of Deputies in first resolution. I would remind you that, in accordance with Rule 123 of the Rules of Procedure, in the second resolution, the draft constitutional law, after the general discussion, will be submitted only to the final vote for approval as a whole, subject to explanations of vote. I also warn that, pursuant to Rule 138, first paragraph, of the Rules of Procedure, in second resolution, the constitutional bill will be approved if in the final vote it obtains the vote in favour of the absolute majority of the members of the Senate. The rapporteur, Senator Zeller, has requested authorisation to carry out the oral report. No comments were received, the request was accepted. I therefore call the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-890.ana.u139	Madam President, my report will be very brief, because I have already explained the content of the measure at our examination at the previous sitting in which we dealt with it. It has been approved with an identical text by the House of Deputies and we are now at second reading. My report is in favour of its approval.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-890.ana.u140	As you are not included in the general discussion and as the rapporteur and the representative of the Government do not intend to speak in response, we shall proceed to the final vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-890.ana.u141	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-890.ana.u142	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-890.ana.u143	COUNCIL (LN-Aut). Madam President, we are at second reading. Nothing has changed. The act by which the Special Statute is approved and amended is a constitutional law, and therefore a state law approved under the regime governed by Article 138 of the Constitution. This provision includes eleven articles that recognize the representation of the representatives of the Ladin language, i.e. a linguistic minority, and is born as a real proposal to ensure the representation of the Ladins, on whose language and existence there are several things written; their history has been put in the condition of having an evolution and, therefore, should be properly protected. In view of the proposal made in the past by Senator Calderoli to delete the two articles on electoral matters, the measure has already had a green light on our part. I would like to take this opportunity to point out that a number of writings now consider the Regions to be a special statute and no longer make sense. We, as a movement, have the objective of ensuring that the Regions are even replicated to a special statute. In this regard, I remind the House and those who listen to us from home that the Lombardy and Veneto Regions on 22 October, precisely for this reason, will hold two referendums to have more forms of autonomy. All this in order to make Lombardy and Veneto become even more special than they already are, for issues related to labor, productivity and the ability to make system within them. Then there was a cost-related controversy; if we were to see how much the referendum on 4 December cost, we would probably have some problems. We are in favour of this measure and we will vote in favour of it. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-890.ana.u144	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-890.ana.u145	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-890.ana.u146	DE PETRIS (Misto-SI-SEL). Madam President, I believe that we have helped and contributed to the path of this bill, as the rapporteur knows. We therefore strongly support our vote in favour. I would also like to give the House some good news: we are about to examine - hopefully soon - the ratification of the Charter of Minor Languages, which will be another positive element for this end of the parliamentary term, which has been awaited for many years. The Senators of the Italian Left will vote in favour of the draft constitutional law under consideration.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-890.ana.u147	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-890.ana.u148	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-890.ana.u149	MANCUSO (AP-CpE-NCD). Madam President, by announcing the vote in favour of this measure, I would ask you to be able to hand over the text of my explanation of vote, so that it can be annexed to today's report. [[Applause from the AP-CpE-NCD Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-890.ana.u150	The Presidency shall authorise it accordingly.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-890.ana.u151	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-890.ana.u152	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-890.ana.u153	ENDRIZZI (M5S). Madam President, the Republic protects linguistic minorities. And this is one of the twelve basic principles of the Constitution. The 5 Star Movement welcomes a measure that includes in the Statute of Trentino-Alto Adige forms of protection for the Ladin linguistic minority in local authorities, from the composition of some fundamental bodies to the procedures for approving budgets. These are issues that impact heavily on a rich and articulated social fabric. Some concerns - as I will say - remain open, but this is an important step forward and therefore the 5 Star Movement expresses its satisfaction, also because some of our proposals have been accepted. I am thinking of the extension of protection also to the Ladin residents of the Province of Trento; I am thinking of the possibility of holding extraordinary sessions of the provincial and regional councils on the rights of the Ladin minority and the linguistic groups of the Mochens and Cimbrians. With this measure they find greater recognition language groups that have long been demanding to be considered. I would also remind you that a reserve quota has been set aside in political appointments in administrative courts. What's the matter? Today in the administrative courts it is politics that appoints the magistrates who will then have to decide on the administrative acts adopted by the politicians. Here we have not only an injury to the principle of separation of powers, but also a real paradox, in which the controlled appoints the controller. It would have been annoying to use a rule for the protection of linguistic minorities to confirm this principle. We have asked not to reserve a quota for the Ladin minority, but to remove political appointments. At this point, however, it would have been an amendment that was not relevant to the matter of the measure and, therefore, this could be resolved in another context. However, we are pleased that we have avoided damage. We are satisfied because other changes in the electoral field have been avoided, which had nothing to do with the protection of minorities, but which paradoxically risked increasing the power of the local linguistic majority. A paradox would have been created: the Italian Constitution protects the German linguistic minority in Italy, while the minorities in the Autonomous Province of Bolzano would have been prejudiced. We are satisfied because the hearings proved useful and effective, because our findings were equally useful and effective and because, for once, reasonableness and dialogue prevailed over party interests. We are satisfied because the partisan electoral interest has been subordinate to that of the country and democracy. They wanted men of good conscience to respect this principle also in the process of national electoral law. This, however, is only my wish, unfortunately. We'll see. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-890.ana.u154	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-890.ana.u155	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-890.ana.u156	MALAN (FI-PdL XVII). Madam President, as we said at the last reading, we are certainly in favour of the recognition of linguistic minorities and, in particular, in this case of the Ladin minority, whose roots are at least as ancient as those of the Italian language. We are therefore in favour of the basic constitutional bill under consideration. Unlike the previous time, we will vote in favour, while at last reading we expressed a vote of abstention in order to draw attention to the problems concerning the Italian minority in that region, about which there would be a lot to talk about for its protection. The protection of one minority cannot compromise the protection of another. Therefore, reaffirming our solidarity and our understanding of defending the Italian minority in the Trentino-Alto Adige Region, we declare our vote in favour of the measure to protect the Ladin-speaking minority. [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-890.ana.u157	Pursuant to the first paragraph of Article 138 of the Constitution, an absolute majority of the members of the Senate is required to vote on a constitutional bill in the second resolution. Pursuant to Rule 120 (3) of the Rules of Procedure, I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot for the second resolution on the constitutional bill as a whole. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves in second resolution with a majority of its members. (See Annex B). [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-890.ana.u158	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-890.ana.u159	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-890.ana.u160	Mr Pezzopane (PD). Madam President, yesterday the Nobel Prize for Physics was awarded to three very important world hunger scientists, Weiss, Barish and Thorne. The three important scientists with determination have sought for decades the confirmation of the existence of gravitational waves provided for by the theory of general relativity. The important thing, Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, which I would like to stress in this House is that, in addition to celebrating the realities belonging to scientists, there was also a celebration in my city, L'Aquila, where a group of scientists, headed by the GSSI (Gran Sasso Science Institute), collaborated on this huge project. Professor Barry Barish, in fact, professor emeritus at the California Institute of Technology, is also a member of the scientific committee of the structure established in L'Aquila. What I would also like to stress is that this very important research structure has recently, in the current legislature, had academic and university recognition after an important birth, which took place in the aftermath of the earthquake, to support research and cultural rebirth in L'Aquila. When such recognition was given, in this House inappropriate roarings of opposition resonated against the creation of the structure. Today I wanted to emphasize it, because it confirms, for the umpteenth time, the good work we are doing, the goodness, the quality and the highest scientific level of the structure that we wanted and supported in L'Aquila. [[Applause from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-890.ana.u161	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-890.ana.u162	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-890.ana.u163	CHAMPOLILLO (M5S). Madam President, a press agency has come out, right now, reporting a statement by Ms Savino di Forza Italia, who has just declared that for the 5 Star Movement, reeds are the country's priority. Evidently, she shows all her ignorance about the subject and especially about the discussion that we held in the Senate today. Above all, Ms Savino di Forza Italia shows that she has not even read the law for which we have asked for urgency today. Member Elvira Savino is already known for having even filed a bill according to which parents who make their children follow a vegetarian diet only should be arrested. Today, our legitimate request actually comes from those who are ill and suffering, who do not have to make a joint - as you have come to say - but already uses this drug and does not use tobacco - known heavy drugs although it is legal - mixed with marijuana. Instead, those who treat themselves with cannabis, the sick who today asked for this measure to be approved, use it in a totally different way, i.e. by vaporization or infusion into water. Therefore, once again, we must take note of the level of Ms Elvira Savino, who, among other things, comes from my own region. We take note of your level of knowledge of parliamentary work, which is virtually zero.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-890.ana.u164	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-890.ana.u165	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-890.ana.u166	Orellana (Aut (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT)-PSI-MAIE). Madam President, I rise to call for a response to my questioning 2-00475 addressed to the Ministers for Economic and Financial Affairs and Agricultural Food and Forestry Policy and presented last July. It is the supply of gas oil for preferential agricultural use that, for a peculiar interpretation of the national legislation by the Lombardy Region, quite different from that of other neighbouring Regions, is denied to agro-mechanical operators acting on behalf of third parties. This different interpretation causes objective damage to operators, in particular in the province of Pavia, who are operating without this facility in competition with other operators of neighbouring regions who, on the other hand, benefit from it. After sixteen years of compliance with national legislation, the Department of Agriculture of the Lombardy Region on 13 March 2017 formulated a restrictive interpretation of the provisions regarding the allocation of agricultural fuel facilitated to be used for the provision of services rendered with agricultural machinery to agricultural undertakings entered in the register of undertakings of the Chamber of Commerce. From this interpretation, exclusively from Lombardy, it turns out that the associated individual enterprises are not recognized as agro-mechanical enterprises and, therefore, titled to take advantage of the facilitation, if they carry out two activities: the direct one and the one on behalf of third parties. I therefore urge urgent response to the request to know what measures the Ministers for Economic Affairs and Finance and agricultural food and forestry policies intend to take in order to ensure a uniform, fair and regular implementation throughout the national territory of the relevant provisions. The interpretations of the Lombardy Region, which deviate from those of the neighbouring Regions, are creating an objective difficulty to work for these agri-food operators, creating a competition, at this point unjustified, to the operators of the neighbouring Regions such as Emilia Romagna or Piedmont.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-890.ana.u167	The motions, questions and questions received by the Presidency will be published in Annex B to today's report.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-890.ana.u168	The Senate will meet again tomorrow, in two public sessions, the first at 9.30 a.m. and the second at 16 a.m., with the following agenda: (See agenda) The sitting was closed at 18.52.
