ParlaMint-IT_2017-08-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-871.ana.u1	The sitting is open (9:03 a.m.). The Minutes shall be read. Mr Frevezzi, Secretary, read the Minutes of the afternoon sitting of the previous day. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I put the Minutes to the vote. It's approved.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-08-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-871.ana.u2	The list of senators on leave and absent on assignment received from the Senate, as well as further communications to the Assembly, will be published in Annex B to today's Minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-08-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-871.ana.u3	I would warn you that qualified votes can be taken in the course of today's sitting by electronic means. Therefore, from this moment the period of 20 minutes from the notice provided for in Article 119, paragraph 1 of the Regulation (9.06 hours) begins.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-08-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-871.ana.u4	[[The President stands up and with you the whole Assembly]] Ladies and gentlemen, today is August 2nd and it is the 37th anniversary of the massacre at Bologna station: at 10.25 a.m. on August 2nd, 1980, a Saturday, an device exploded in the waiting room of the railway station, causing 85 deaths and more than 200 injuries. It was one of the most dramatic and bloody terrorist acts in republican history. Although - also thanks to the valuable and decisive contribution of the association of the family members of the victims - it was reached, in November 1995, the final sentence of condemnation against the material perpetrators of the massacre, still remain today areas of shadow and opacity, with reference to the identification of the senders and the flankers. As the President of the Senate emphasized in a message sent yesterday to the mayor of Bologna, thirty-seven very long years have not eased the pain of those who bear the signs of that terrible Saturday of August; thirty-seven years have not to any extent affected the determination of those - in spite of the difficulties and some unjustified obstacles - who do not intend to renounce justice and truth. The moral need to completely reconstruct - both historically and judicially - the picture within which the most heinous massacre of civilians in republican history took place cannot be ignored. These are the words of President Grasso. In renewing the closeness of the Senate of the Republic to all those affected by this tragedy and in reaffirming the commitment of the institutions to continue on the path to fully ascertain what has happened, I invite the Assembly to observe a minute's silence. [[The Assembly observed a minute's silence.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-08-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-871.ana.u5	The next item is the continuation of the debate on draft law No 2085-B, already approved by the House of Deputies, as amended by the Senate and again amended by the House of Deputies. I would remind you that the debate on the issue of trust took place at yesterday's afternoon sitting.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-08-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-871.ana.u6	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-08-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-871.ana.u7	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-08-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-871.ana.u8	COUNCIL (LN-Aut). Madam President, we are faced with yet another confidence - we have now lost count - that further degrades the role of the Senate and makes us angry unnecessarily, because the frank and honest relationship, certainly never accommodating, that has distinguished us in the Commission, did not deserve this further epilogue. Very few amendments have been tabled, not even one obstructionist, all of which are insistent on the substance. Yet the government lacks respect especially for the citizens, humiliating them, because it deprives their political representation of the possibility of expressing themselves. If we were to pay attention to Parliament's work, we cannot fail to see an appeal to the question of trust, which is, to say the least, cunning. This attitude is so frequent that the position of the matter of trust is now perceived as an effective and ongoing national legislative procedure. This massive abuse of parliamentary confidence puts an end to the positive and noble nature of guaranteeing government action, replacing it with a negative and contemptuous form, leading to arrogant and arrogant attitudes of executive power towards legislative power. It is to be thought that there is an embarrassing political blackmail to the Parliamentary Assembly, because the life of the entire Executive depends on the vote on the measure under consideration. This is extremely clear and it is equally clear that in recent months there have been no serene relations within the majority with regard to this measure. The measure has been before Parliament for two and a half years now. It could have been done better and better before. Surely this brazenness and long-windedness should be schooled for the next competition laws. A parliamentary examination lasting almost two and a half years has led to the loss of the idea that this is an annual competition law, because it has become biennial, almost three years. The measure under consideration is no longer an organic law, the result of reports from the Competition Authority and the market and that in the original text should have been a sort of annual maintenance law, in fact it has become a container in which it has been put everything. Madam President, if competition is the condition in which several companies compete in the same market, producing the same goods or services, in order to satisfy a plurality of competing buyers and in which none of the operators is able to influence, by their own decisions, the progress of the negotiations, this seems perhaps the objective that had been set, but certainly, looking at the result of the law that we are preparing to vote, this objective has not been met or achieved. Liberalizations are very often considered necessary, strategic and useful to get out of the recession. In addition to the indications coming from the Antitrust Authority and the European directives, the measure under consideration sells a recipe to get out of the crisis and does nothing if the article of the bill does not always have solid bases and determined by technical considerations, but is linked to the big lobby, large groups and the inevitable political ideologies of which the two Chambers seem to be unable to do without. It would then be thought that, according to the political color of the government in office at a given moment, the law n. 99 of 2009 is drawn up and drawn up to the necessity and as is best believed. The introduction of increased competition within a system can disrupt the various lobbying and trusts, so that single producers of a given service are obliged to stand on the market and face up to consumer rights. A competitive regime is favourable to all, to consumers and producers, who would have everything to gain from adjusting their supply and competitiveness: this is the basis of the reasoning. So, Madam President, we have failed to communicate; or rather, all those who have manifested and shocked in these months have done so without knowing that losing their jobs or what they have built over the years would have been only the beginning of their new well-being. We apologize for not being able to convey this beautiful feeling. Very bad Samaritans today consider free trade and free market policies as the panacea of all evils. The World Bank, according to its studies on the ease of doing business, places our country at 87th place in 183: Italy has thus lost almost four positions compared to last year. In the speed of the building permits we are at 96th place, in the connection to the electricity grids at 109th place, for access to the credit at 98th place. We do not shine at all for the opening times of companies. We are in 134th place for ease of paying taxes, although it seems a little too much. It takes two hundred and eighty-five hours a year for tax purposes. We are not able to manage our waste, our prisons, our energy supply and we have also seen what happens with water after only two months that does not rain. We are not able to deal with the conflicts with the great works and we are not even able to make an industrial policy. This is industrial policy 4.0 and I didn't see the end of 2.0; I probably missed 3.0 on the way. We've skipped even. We didn't want or know how to change the school. Privatisations have been badly done and liberalisations are doing even worse. There has been talk of a barrier to competition, a lack of transparency, a recommendation from the European Commission as to what we should have done. To be honest, this measure only intervenes in relation to a few points reported by the Authority. These are certainly important points such as RC Auto, pension funds, postal services and communications issues. As far as we are concerned, perhaps things could be done a little better, even listening to minorities, which is not a very bad thing. You of the majority should have tried to put yourselves on the other side of the table, where the citizens sit, who are also known to be consumers and users of services. We abolish this blessed Bolkestein and review the whole Treaty. Italy has its traditions, its economy and its national culture and is the country where the little one is beautiful; it is also - it has to be said - the country of bell towers and guilds, which is not always a negative term if reference is made to the transmission of a job from father to son. It has been noted that certain categories in Italy were particularly anxious to open up to Europe. This happened because the small size of the family business makes it unsuitable to compete because, by nature, very venerable. Taxi drivers, beachmen and streetwalkers and so many others are scared of having to compete on licenses with larger companies. They are certainly larger in size, but I don't know if they have skills and skills. Greatness, though, has surely frightened them. How will this bill affect the economy, citizens, taxpayers, consumers and producers? How many GDP points do you think you're gonna catch up on? How many new hires? The opening of markets will probably be for others. Bolkestein has only created a breakdown in this respect. There are companies that close and relocate and then stop talking about the tax wedge. You're still telling us that 0.1-0.2 percent is something positive. Antonio Gentile, undersecretary for economic development, who is here to listen to us and we thank him for this. Prime Minister Gentiloni Silveri echoed him. They both called for rapid approval and were perhaps not great prophets: we think we must and can close with a very rapid passage to the Commission. We have had about two years of discussion in the Commission and we have lost track of the hearings. We thought that after eight or nine months of his approval in 10a The Commission was mature, but perhaps it is not, and then you will have it ripened like bananas in the trust cell. And so it was. Article 47 of Law No 99 of 2009 provides that there is an annual measure for the market and competition: this is a goal that certainly seems excellent and should resolve and remove the many obstacles, the brakes that remain in the markets of products and services. But this annual law has very little. It is a measure that has revealed many contradictions in the approach that the majority had in coming to the head of a shared text. The examination carried out clearly exposed the various stakeholders and especially the big lobbyists. As we said, there has been an infinite number of hearings, which are certainly necessary, but sometimes in clear divergence, on the basis of the interested parties and the audits that came to the Commission. It has been said that this bill on competition has been put back on the tracks: it is like saying that it was abundantly derailed and therefore had lost that guideline that Law No 99 had set. In the four passages near the two We have voted against it and we will do the same in this passage. I'll finish with a nail. Since there are a few months to go before the end of this parliamentary term, we ask that the main issues be taken up at the end of this draft law: unemployment is at 13-14 per cent while youth is at 42-43 per cent; there are labour and immigration problems. Also, I ask you to do me a favor: try to tell Boeri to shut up, because when he speaks he only messes up. With this, I finished my speech. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-08-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-871.ana.u9	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-08-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-871.ana.u10	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-08-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-871.ana.u11	Granaiola (Art.1-MDP). Madam President, the draft competition law, which arrived in Parliament on 3 April 2015, returns to the Senate, in fifth reading, in what should be its final form. The Art Group. 1-MDP, while acknowledging that the measure contains very sensitive issues and important decisions affecting many economic sectors, and especially consumers, cannot fail to express deep regret at some of the changes introduced to the House, which in our opinion seriously harm the interests of consumers themselves. I refer first of all to the insurance front and therefore to the restoration of the tacit renewal for policies damages other than RC cars and its abolition only for those ancillary to the latter, for which moreover the tacit renewal was abolished in 2012 and remains prohibited. It is a heavy step back from the previous passage in the Senate, which had extended the prohibition of tacit renewal to all damages policies. In the 10th Commission, Mr Cucchetti had tabled an amendment, which we also voted on very reasonable, which provided for the possibility of cancellation without penalty within 60 days of the tacit renewal. Unfortunately, the amendment did not go through, which, in our view, has caused considerable harm to consumers. Another heavy change was the elimination of the regime of greater protection in the electricity sector, fortunately, also thanks to our intervention, postponed to 1 July 2019, after the initial hypothesis that indicated the middle of 2017. According to the changes introduced to the Chamber, the auctions for the territorial areas provided for by the safeguard regime will not apply to customers who at the end of the protected market have not chosen their supplier, but only to those who find themselves without supplier, for example for failure of the same. Here, too, an amendment was tabled by the President of the 10th Commission, which we also voted on, which provided for the application of the minimum unit price of supplies in case of non-choice and that no supplier could hold more than 50% of the domestic end-customer market. This amendment was also not adopted. You tell me if this is not a decision in favour of some lobbyists. Even the changes made to the Chamber in relation to telemarketing can certainly not be shared, as they are contrary to a real, real and effective protection of personal data. It is therefore to be hoped that the Senate Act on the registration and operation of the opposition register will be adopted as soon as possible and that a single national prefix will be established for calls for promotional purposes and for market research which, if not regulated, are rightly perceived and experienced by the consumer as a nuisance now tending to unbearable. In postponing our opinion on many other issues, such as pharmacies, parapharmacies, notaries, the Bolkestein directive and non-scheduled transport, as already expressed in the explanation of vote given to the Senate of the undersigned regarding the measure at the session of 3 May 2017, I cannot fail to recall two other issues which we believe to be very important for culture and tourism, which would have deserved more attention from the Government. I am referring to the savage export of cultural goods. As Article 1-MDP we have tried to present an agenda that committed the Government to revise the article on the export of national cultural heritage, but with a procedural quirk we have been prevented from doing so, with the result that the controls that the State exercises on antique dealers, galleries and auction houses are eliminated and the function of protecting the cultural heritage provided for in Article 9 of the Constitution is diminished. The automatic exit of the goods with a self-declaration that certifies an economic value less than 13,500 euros will favor the international circulation of stolen goods, counterfeit, false or even inalienable. In the tourism sector, in order to remain on the subject of the same Ministry, no longer will be valid the pacts that oblige the hotels not to practice to the customers better prices than those offered by Booking, Expedia and other intermediaries, with good peace of the tourists consumers. Having made these comments, we are aware of the absolute need to bring this measure to an end in good and bad, while observing the whole of the rules which, on the whole, are still a step forward. Therefore, the Article 1-MDP Group will vote in favour, not so much with the intention of not dropping the cyclist on arrival, as Senator Luigi Marino says, but with the aim, once the finish line is crossed, to stop him, so that he does not go to the spectators, get hurt and hurt them, and we can start again for a new race and therefore a new law on competition, this time faster and more incisive and above all more effective for the real protection of consumers and businesses. [[Applause from the Groups Art.1-MDP and PD.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-08-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-871.ana.u12	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-08-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-871.ana.u13	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-08-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-871.ana.u14	FUCKSIA (FL (Id-PL, PLI)). Madam President, this is the first time since 2009 that the approval of the draft competition law appears to be on the horizon. As the rapporteur pointed out in the 10th Commission, it would be desirable to vote in favour of the measure, perhaps without going back to the House again. For this reason, too, the Commission's choice has turned to agendas, particularly those concerning the obligation for insurance companies to inform their customers 30 days before the expiry of the insurance contract in order to limit commercial practices which, through the tacit renewal, could bind citizens. However, the sense of responsibility and consistency with the premises makes it difficult to do so. Ours is more of a system problem. More slowly than other countries Italy has transited and still transits from the reality of the large state agencies to the private companies supplying the same services. Writing a bill that pleases everyone is impossible and will remain impossible until we understand that a paragraph repealing it is useless, an article that introduces, if we do not convince ourselves that the success of any project of structural reform of the markets still requires a firm unity of intent and the joint commitment of all the administrations, both central and local. Beyond the specific proposals covering the different sectors of the economy, a culture of competition at all levels of government must be promoted and the quality of regulation improved, strengthening the capacity of administrations, especially local authorities, to take reasoned decisions on the basis of concrete data and on-the-spot analyses. This, which should be a reason for common sense, was written in black and white by the Competition and Market Authority in 2015, the year in which the Government gave us this measure. That competition that we so much banish, that on several occasions returns to office and that constitutes the reason, for example, of the protests of a few months ago of taxi drivers in front of Palazzo Madama, is not only a term to be attached to a law, as in this case. Competition is, to date, the strongest glue in the European Union. It is no coincidence, in fact, that at EU level the independent antitrust authorities are the most active partners, even more so than the governments. While the reform of regulation in the pro-competitive sense is central and fundamental to a market-oriented economic policy, part of this policy is certainly a work of reducing, simplifying and rationalising the regulatory framework and administrative procedures. The most painful key was that of energy and, to see, this theme is the real pulse to measure the health of the measure. Paragraphs 61 et seq. govern the transition of energy users from the protected market to the free market. In the Committee on Industry, Commerce and Tourism, the debate on this subject was very much attended, especially with reference to the decision of the Chamber of Deputies to expunge that part of the norm with which the Senate had intended to clarify that users of the service of greater protection are customers of the single buyer and not of those who provide the single buyer with the sales service. This change will allow these suppliers to acquire these customers at no commercial cost, but under a law. There is no doubt that liberalisation in such a strategic sector cannot take place overnight and must be accompanied by measures which, by encouraging adequate information to the consumer, create an environment in which the consumer exercises his sovereignty. However, in order for this to be possible, it is necessary that consumers are actually ready to choose and that their choices are not hindered by unjustified barriers. It will be necessary - and this will have to be our task - to monitor price developments in order to avoid the cost of this transition being citizens and businesses. Since 2015, Brussels has recommended that Member States ensure affordable and competitive prices for businesses and households, which are at the heart of the Union and energy. We have spent almost three years drafting amendments to the legislation, which cannot be regarded as unsatisfactory. The analyses carried out by the main international organisations identify regulatory hypertrophy and bureaucratic complication as one of the first causes of Italy's competitive disadvantage in the European context and in the OECD area as a whole. We certainly cannot say good the first, but we can certainly take note that many of the vital economic sectors in our country deserve greater attention and seriousness in the discussion of the subject of liberalization and, ultimately, greater coherence of choices. Just the fact that the debate has been focused, especially in the last parliamentary passage, on energy brought back to my mind the words of Rossi, who in the fifties, with a topicality that has almost amazing, said that when we procure energy, an essential service, it is as if we contracted the security of our country to mercenary troops, or as if we put other essential services in the hands of those who cannot protect us. The example that Rossi then set was to give the management of the Central Bank to private banks. This, in some way, has occurred over the decades. I do not think I have the tranquillity and serenity of power, on behalf of my Group, to vote in favour of this measure, because there are points in particular that prevent us from doing so. [[Applause from Senator Giovanardi. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-08-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-871.ana.u15	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-08-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-871.ana.u16	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-08-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-871.ana.u17	D'Ambrosio Lettieri (GAL (DI, GS, MPL, RI)). Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, Mr Undersecretary, to a senator who is as convinced as I am of the need for double readings and bicameralism, I must say that the history of this measure necessarily produces reflections, because we have lost valuable opportunities: nine hundred days of work, twenty-seven months of debates and deepenings, a measure entered the House in April 2015 with 32 articles, fired with 52 articles, and that today we deliver, with an abused vote of confidence, with 192 paragraphs. I would say that four readings should have produced something more and something better, but this has not happened and this is clearly the reason why we are building our greatest perplexity, that is that the Government is more attentive to responding to the logics and internal disputes between economic powers than to seek a fair balance between the needs of a market and the primary duty to respond to citizens in order to offer them better levels of access to services at a lower price. On the other hand, I would also like to express a thought of affectionate solidarity and closeness to the two fellow speakers, Senator Luigi Marino and Senator Salvatore Tomaselli, who have spent the best energies to realize a text more adapted to the needs, that was enriched also by the indications emerged during the many hours of discussion and general discussion. Unfortunately, they too have been betrayed, although it is true that the bitterness of their assessments reveals the presence of many interpretative doubts and unresolved points: those relating to companies with public capital participation, for example those which govern the water sector, which in the last ten years have had increases for more than 90%, or those of waste, with an increase of more than 50%, or those of transport, with an increase of more than 30%. It does not convince the rapporteurs, as I am not convinced and does not convince my colleagues in the Italian Directorate, the internal member of the LAG Group, the rule on tacit renewal in the insurance sector, which certainly benefits the insurer, but does not benefit the insured. Then there is the disappointment that we rejected the amendment we had adopted here on telemarketing, which would obviously have protected the citizen from the persistent intrusiveness of sellers. There is, in short, a series of critical points that reaffirms the presence of a fundamental error: the opportunity has been missed because it has not been possible to break down the closed markets, which represent one of the problems at the origin of the economic stagnation of the country, but not even to open new markets with appropriate rules and disciplines. In fact, there have been no constraints or limits to the intrusiveness of market logic. We are not opposed to liberalisation. We are very much in favour of liberalisation, but liberalisation must have an end, that of producing services to citizens, better services in terms of quality and having lower costs. Liberalizations that support GDP, that promote employment, that bring real opportunities to the citizens who want to make undertaken, that do not represent deception. The history of the stripes of 2006, of the neighborhood exercises, with the so-called pharmacies, would still deserve an apology from the Government for betraying the expectations of a whole audience of professionals, mainly young, whose aspirations have broken before the indolence of a government unable even to apologize and find the resources to restore the damage produced to them. This, on the other hand, is a law for fake competition, because it promotes fake liberalisations intended to widen even more the differences between the rich and the poor, to reduce the spaces for real competition, which creates opportunities and generates employment. To conclude, I believe that the summary of falsehood is written in the title of paragraph 157, which contains measures to increase competition in pharmaceutical distribution. But how do you write a title like that? How can we predict that there will be an increase in competition when a real oligopoly is introduced into the pharmaceutical system, with the entry of capital without limits and without constraints? This is a deception and this is the result of a focus on pleasing economic potentates, who have the only interest in achieving the business in a market logic that destroys the capillarity of a network that today guarantees efficient access to pharmaceutical performance. We have said this in every way, with the amendments, with the proposals for amendments that have also been put forward in the Commission. The 20 percent ceiling is a fake roof, since it did not include the adverb "totally" and has, in fact, allowed five capital companies to hold, for each Region, the control of the pharmacies present in the same Region. This means that an oligopoly is created, with all the consequences that will result. You did not intend to accept the amendment for the introduction of a roof. You did not intend to introduce an amendment to protect the social security institution, ENPAF, by predicting a contribution of 2%, as was done by analogy for medical societies in 2006. You have not intended to introduce, within the corporate structure, the so-called sentry of ethics, to ensure compliance with the rules of a profession that, with the entry of capital, risks losing the levels of its autonomy and, therefore, to see compromise the primacy of its function with respect to the logic of the market. In short, down the mask: tell it clearly to the Italian citizens that you wanted to please more the economic potentates than the citizens themselves in a series of initiatives that, with this measure, could otherwise have produced benefits and create more adequate expectations than the need to do business, to produce jobs and to create better access to services in terms of quality and costs. This has not happened, and this is why the senators of the Italian management component, within the LAG Group, will express their strong dissent, voting against it. [[Applause from the GAL Group (DI, GS, MPL, RI) and Senator Castaldi.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-08-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-871.ana.u18	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-08-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-871.ana.u19	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-08-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-871.ana.u20	BERGER (Aut (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT)-PSI-MAIE). Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, representatives of the Government, Minister, Mr Undersecretary, who would have thought that this measure, after more than two years, would have come to its final resolution despite the delay and despite the fact that the revision of the text should have taken place in the Commission and not with two confidences in the Senate and with a remodulation in the House. Unfortunately, this is the disease of perfect bicameralism. The reopening to the House of the last text approved by the Senate, certainly did not improve. Let us, however, especially look at the positive elements. The Commission has worked in a climate of great harmony and constructive cooperation between all its members, both of opposition and of majority, and you, Secretary-General Gentile, as a representative of the Government have cooperated in an open and transparent manner and I thank you. I would also like to thank the rapporteurs, Mr Tomaselli and Mr Luigi Marino, and the President, Mr Cucchetti, for the climate present during the work of the Commission. Ladies and gentlemen, I am not saying this in a manner of speaking, but sincerely because the climate in the Commission was of a friendliness that I have not yet found in other forums. For this I sincerely renew my thanks. Very important improvements have been introduced in the Commission, unfortunately, during the long run. I am thinking above all of the rules for the bodies and those on booking that dissolve a direct node on the relationship between large and small subjects of the insurance sector and the hotel offer. The risk, in both cases, was to leave the large groups the possibility of determining the market by imposing rules and prices on everyone else. A kind of occult oligopoly with hotel facilities or bodies that would have gone into great difficulty. This is why the changes introduced are rules to protect small and medium-sized enterprises in these two specific sectors. The competitiveness of the country system is a goal to be pursued every day and it is even more so in a rapidly changing world with a global market where technological innovations demand an even greater effort. Just think of the theme of ultra-wide band or 5G technology that will soon completely revolutionize our industrial system with the full advent of Industry 4.0. The fourth industrial revolution with the great theme of artificial intelligence will be an important thing to follow in close proximity. The speed of technological development is higher than policy can follow. Artificial intelligence and technology will need politics to act in a very urgent and fundamental way, because the great transformations must be guided, or in any case accompanied by politics. The liberalisation of the market unfortunately leaves behind the path of its implementation wounded and dead, i.e. damaged companies and hundreds of traditional family businesses that have been closed down. This is particularly true in peripheral areas; I am thinking of the trade and services sector and I refer to a point that has been mentioned many times in the debate on this measure, namely rural pharmacies. The institutions have the task of enhancing our entrepreneurial system, the whole network of small and medium-sized companies that have paid a very high price in recent years, because it seems that politics has not been able to understand that the great transformations of globalization, if not carefully guided, overwhelm the small one to the full benefit of the great. For our country there can be no competitiveness if this does not start from the specificities of our production system, composed above all of small and medium-sized companies. In any case, action must also be taken by means of an initiative which has been in the Commission for a long time, namely the one on closing times. If we do not intervene, the peripheral areas will lose essential services and will suffer continuous depopulation. Liberalization has its winners, that is the big ones, but the small and very small family businesses, especially in the suburbs, are the ones that lose this battle. I believe that the main merit of this measure has been that it has taken on board this logic, confirmed also by the great attention - as I have already pointed out - which has been given in the work of the Commission to improved amendments. Among those proposed by our Group, there are also the amendments related to the energy sector, to protect small and medium-sized companies, as well as the interest of users. However, the timing is a critical element that requires immediate action: the functional unbundling of energy companies is of the utmost urgency and is of great importance for small energy producers. With the passages on the theme of photovoltaic (but of the energy in total), there would have been the need to regulate still many other issues. The issue of small photovoltaic plants could also have been better addressed. I believe it is of little use to control and sanction hundreds and thousands of very small plants on the quality, certification and provenance of the materials; it would certainly be better to close the match of about 300,000 plants under the 3 kilowatts with the liquidation of a reduced lump sum resulting from the calculation of the incentive potentially foreseen for the incentive period, so would the amount of work and loss of time linked to the checks, calculations, payments and the sanctioning of almost 300,000 small investors and families. This would be an exemplary model of sburocratization and would place a potential of spending on the market (not indifferent sums), freeing users and the operator from endless acts of calculations and sanctioning procedures on a case-by-case basis. These, Mr Secretary-General, are all subjects on which the Government will have to intervene as soon as possible; we await the next energy measure, which is very, very urgent. We hope that, reaching the final point and deliberating, the text will meet the expectations of such an important measure and that all unresolved issues will be addressed as soon as possible. Some, as in the examples I have given, are very urgent and must be put at the centre of the agenda for the coming weeks and months of our political work. I see the glass half full and not half empty, I look with optimism and great hope to the sensitivity and capacity of this Government and I declare the favorable vote of the Group For the Autonomies-PSI-MAIE. [[Applause from the Aut Group (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT) - PSI-MAIE.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-08-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-871.ana.u21	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-08-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-871.ana.u22	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-08-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-871.ana.u23	MAZZONI (ALA-SCLP). Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, we have reached the end of this measure, which has certainly experienced a long and troubled process. We regret, moreover, that we come to the conclusion, once again, through the umpteenth question of trust. Let us not forget that the text has seen the light in the distant 2015, with former Minister Guidi; Today we conclude with Minister Calenda and another Government. This says a lot about how much water has passed under the bridges and how, in two years, so much has changed. In fact, the social and economic dynamics in this historical moment constantly change in a dizzying way, so it was necessary and inescapable to pursue these changes; the text has certainly suffered, making necessary a continuous shuttle between Chamber and Senate, very prolonged over time. The annual market and competition law is the daughter of the 2009 development law, determined precisely by the legislator's will to remove regulatory, regulatory or administrative barriers to market opening, to promote the development of competition and to ensure consumer protection. The direction, then, is definitely right. With regard to these aims, the expectations of the public have been numerous and great: from the abolition of monopolies that are still persistent to a different regulation of certain economic sectors, not to mention the very strong expectation of the cancellation of the current restrictions on free economic initiative, with expected benefits both on production and especially on consumption. On the other hand, we have found ourselves faced with a text that is perhaps overly full-bodied, which in its form reminds us so much of an omnibus measure and which contains, however, subjects that would need targeted intervention. But precisely from this emerges the paradox: although the text has long been "parked" in the Commissions of merit of Chamber and Senate, it has not been managed to address in a targeted way the great issues that are instead decisive for the development of the country. I am talking about issues such as railways, telecommunications, motorway concessions, the web, supplementary insurance, local public services, road transport. In this legislative passage, too, we have tried to incorporate improvements in the text, but without any concrete results. And we therefore had to collect reports of persistent criticalities of the text that come to us from consumer associations, as regards, for example, the energy sector and the issues related to the protected energy market, in a scenario that has seen the tariffs increase for domestic customers of 24 percent, equal to 3.6 cents/kilowattora in addition, for an additional household spending of about 90 euros more. The issue of liberalisation is certainly decisive and fundamental, but it certainly does not represent the panacea of all evils, in order to recover in terms of growth, prospects for development and greater competition, which must aim to compete equal economic models, in order to determine a better level of access for citizens at the lowest possible cost. On the other hand, we believe that market liberalisation can and must go hand in hand with the indispensable protection of consumers. Despite the changes that have been made and some appreciable provisions, it does not seem to us that the text, which we are once again examining today, is going in this direction. Consumers' associations continue to point out that the concentration of the retail market in a few vertically integrated operators, rather than producing increased competition, instead produces the consolidation of a substantially monopolistic situation. Furthermore, we repeat that this text does not adequately address the problems of opening up local public services, from transport to waste management and competition through the introduction of tendering mechanisms. In this regard I would like to recall as significant the retreat accomplished by renouncing to open to competitions the industrial and service activities in the harbour areas. Local public services came to the fore a few months ago as part of the spending review, highlighting ample scope for improving efficiency, as well as reducing costs. This measure could therefore become an opportunity to provide citizens with more efficient services and reduce costs. The same expectation was right to cultivate for rail services, where some form of competition has also started for high speed, with visible benefits on prices; but it is still a road that must be cleared of further obstacles. In fact, issues such as network separation, regulatory accounting, non-discriminatory access, are steps that require complex and coherent interventions that cannot be exhausted within a varied annual competition law, but that should have found at least a basic approach. We had tabled an amendment and an agenda in the Commission and then for the House, which unfortunately have not been adopted, with which we have intervened on the national system for monitoring the transport of goods, highlighting how, in order to implement the new system, concerning the standards of protocols of communication and transmission of data, it is essential to coordinate at territorial level among the largest number of associations of category of hauliers, as well as national associations of representation, assistance and protection of the cooperative movement. To this end we wanted to commit the Government to intervene in order to be modified the legislative decree n. 284 of 2005, previewing that the associations of category of the road haulage and the national associations of representation recognized from the competent Ministry have a peripheral organization with own centers in at least 20 provincial districts (as previews the legislative decree), but that in alternative they must be present, directly or through the Confederations to which they adhere, in at least 50% of the chambers of commerce, industry, crafts. A small change, it will be said, but it would have represented a significant boost for the sector. In the final analysis and I conclude, Madam President, we can say that, without any appreciable intervention on the insurance sector or on the rationalization of the fuel sector, there are still too many shortcomings which show a renunciation of the attitude to intervene courageously on the real protection of competition and, above all, on the protection of citizens at the very moment when, with the opening of the markets, they run the risk of being weakened in their position. For these reasons, the vote on the trust of the ALA-Civic Chosen Group for the Liberal and Popular Constitution will be against. [[Applause from the ALA-SCCLP Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-08-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-871.ana.u24	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-08-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-871.ana.u25	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-08-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-871.ana.u26	MARINO Luigi (AP-CpE-NCD). Madam President, I declare my Group's vote in favour... [[Comments of Senator Castaldi]] The vote is in favour, with an adverb: "Of course." Obviously because we have worked on it and we have been committed for over two years; obviously because we share its content, which is also the result of necessary mediations; and of course because we are part of a majority group that loyally supported the Renzi Government - this measure was born under Renzi's presidency - and then the Silveri Gentiloni Government. And this is a measure present in the government program, it is not the ius solo, so to have succeeded, even if late, to bring it home is a reason for pride, a success of the majority. On the substance of the matter, I refer you to my remarks as rapporteur for the draft law and I confine myself to these quick comments. Firstly, there is the question of whether more could be done, in quality and in quantity. Of course this is the case: there is a lot to be done in the field of liberalisation and competition, but this bill is an important step forward in the modernisation of our market. To bury him in the mists of a fifth passage in the Chamber of Deputies would have been a serious mistake for what remains of the credibility of politics and institutions. Secondly, those who will sit on these benches in the next legislature and also those who will be in the government of this country will have to reason on this instrument, which comes from a law, which provides that Parliament will legislate on the basis of a report by the Competition Authority and the market. Already it is an anomaly that Parliament and the Government must legislate and decide on the basis of the report of the authority that regulates the market. Whoever sits on these benches will have to decide and assess whether this is a good regulation and whether it is still appropriate. I just want to remind you that, if we had complied with this legislation, we would not be voting on the draft law at issue today, but on the third, if not the fourth, competition measure. An omnibus measure of this nature will cut off any coalition. There are too many issues and too many problems to deal with at once just to reach consensus, not of course the whole House, but also the Groups or the majority group. More than complaining about the delay, we should say that today we have done a miracle in completing the draft law under consideration, if the question of trust is voted on. Thirdly, as we know, the economy is not an exact science, otherwise we would all be rich. There are no magical recipes on the market, which indicate that it works better one way rather than another. There may also be doubts as to the validity and effectiveness of the legislation we have introduced. The measure does not punish, as some "Soloni" would have wished, who write in the main newspapers of the country, because a measure must not punish. The aim of the draft competition law is always to find the compromise between consumer protection and, of course, the world of production and professions. In fact, we cannot defend the consumer by "disbursing" the productive apparatus and services of the country. The goal is to blow the rent and not the enterprise, it is to restrict the garden of speculation and not the desire of the good entrepreneur or the good professional to conquer more and more slices of marked. I'm going to the fourth and penultimate point. As I have said repeatedly in these circumstances, let us stop blaming lobbyists. There have always been, there are and there will always be, and, as I said in yesterday's sitting, there is no list, regulation or room in which to cage the lobbyist and lobbyists, because there are so many other means to put the lobbyist and the big business in touch with the government and the parliamentarians. It doesn't exist: this is just an illusion! At the lobby there is only one antidote: autonomy, fairness and transparency of behavior both on the part of those who govern, and on the part of those who, like us, legislate, and I believe that we have demonstrated it. The fifth and final point concerns thanks. I would like to thank the Commission for its exemplary work. We have respected oppositions, as a majority must do, and I believe that oppositions have respected our work. I would like to thank President Cucchetti and the collaborators of the Commission and the Senate. I thank my very prepared colleague Tomaselli, the Undersecretary Gentile and also Minister Calenda, whom I would have liked to see here today, but which I understand cannot be moved by a millimeter after the demanding statements towards the French Government. [[Applause from the AP-CpE-NCD and PD Groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-08-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-871.ana.u27	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-08-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-871.ana.u28	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-08-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-871.ana.u29	CERVELLINI (Misto-SI-SEL). Madam President, after almost nine hundred days, twenty-seven months and four parliamentary readings, we are preparing to approve the draft law on corporations, lobbyists and monopolies. The change in the title is nothing more than a natural consequence of the profound disconnect between what should have been the objective of the measure - a bill aimed at promoting competition and, therefore, at at least allowing citizens to enjoy the benefits of an open and free market - and what emerged from this very winding path, at the end of which the word competition has been emptied of its meaning in order to leave room for the protection of the lobby, the rents, the monopolies and oligopolies of this country, mitigated only by some limited positive intervention. The process has taken place with a certain arrogance, even in a dramatic way, confirming not only the inability, but also a manifest lack of will of the current Government (and of the previous one) to put a stop to the greed of income and capital, which sees them always opposed to the protection of the spending of citizens and workers and workers. From a reading, even superficial, of the provision it is evident the choice put in place by the Government: the measures that have stratified on what has appeared from the beginning as an omnibus measure, without its real organicity, are the result of various compromises to the decrease. In this sense, we invite this Government and the next ones who will come to evaluate the opportunity to proceed with such extensive measures in this field, if you are not able to oppose the cross-shooting of the interests of a vast panorama of lobbying like that present in our country. In it a delegation to the Government has been inserted in order to implement from here to the next months a reform of the field of the transports not of line, a topic much discussed and of great impact on the lives of the people, especially in the great cities and metropolis of our Country. We at the Italian Left in recent months have been in continuous contact with trade unions and workers seriously concerned. The same is true of guarantees for users, starting with security. In fact, this attention has never diminished, at a very delicate moment of confrontation between the Government and trade union representatives on a general reform of the sector that has proved particularly complex. Dura was the government's reaction to the legitimate protests of the workers during the discussion of the decree thousand extensions in the Senate and the amendment incriminated. Today, the entire transport sector with and without driver and taxis is at risk. We defend workers and users' citizens against a government which, on the one hand, has not yet given answers on the regulation of the sector and has not intervened on abuse while, on the other hand, it has strictly applied, the only European country, directives such as Bolkestein. How is it possible to talk about free competition when entire categories are at risk of being brought to their knees? I participated in the protests of taxi drivers outside the Senate to defend workers who for two and a half years have been waiting for a response from the Government on the issue of rights over the provisions produced in favour of the rental service with driver and the Uber American multinational. A lively negotiation has been underway with the Government since February 21st. The trade unions of taxi drivers had put as a condition, in order to continue the work at the technical tables with the Government, to replace Article 71 of the draft competition law and return to the original text of the draft delegation law, presented by the Executive presented in July 2016. With the Italian Left we had tabled specific amendments, because we consider legitimate the protests of categories that only ask to work according to the rules and that up to now have taken charge, in harmony with many local authorities of all political colors, of complex problems such as the right to transport that, if denied, changes in a tragic way the living conditions, especially material, of the citizens in the big cities and metropolis. Mortifying the essential role that the public taxi service plays, forcing it to load itself with the weight of social benefits under the pretext of modernising the sector, is absolutely unacceptable. The commitments and promises of consultation tables, taken by the Ministers in relation to these categories, have been disregarded; and even the meeting with the MIT of recent weeks has seen the political representation completely absent. The draft interministerial decree, that in the intentions announced during the meeting last February 21 in front of Minister Delrio should have led to measures aimed at preventing practices of abusive exercise of the taxi service and of the rental service with driver or, however, not responding to the ordinamental principles that regulate the matter, far from doing all this, ends up healing everything that until today, guiltyly left unpunished by the institutions, was illegal and abusive. There is a double standard on the part of the Government, when it tries even more to limit the operation of the taxi sector and, in fact, healthy practices of abusive exercise of the activity of rental with driver, with instrumental and explicit advantage of the multinationals. The pressures of the rich lobby crush Government and majority, and that does not honor you. Little by little was the call of the Italian Left against turbulentism and corporatism, which will win only the strongest and those who have in contempt the rules, in addition to producing the devastation of our productive fabric, of the lives of the workers, designated victims of the new technological leadership, and of the citizens users, at the mercy, especially the weakest and the most fragile. Competition must be placed within clear limits on labour guarantees, both in terms of wages and in terms of safety. Because it is obvious: competition makes sense if it favours, on the one hand, entrepreneurial merit and, on the other hand, consumers, through greater choice, supply and comparison. In order to do this in the areas where it is right and possible to do so, it is necessary to affect the rent of monopolies and oligopolies, which are in turn forced by the competitive regime to make different and expensive choices to remain competitive: to increase investment, to change organisational models and to revise costs. It is clear, therefore, that income should react with such concern to the possibility that citizens will be allowed greater freedom. It is not clear why in our country we must automatically subject ourselves to the shields of the guilds, for what reason it took two and a half years to dilute an already lacking measure, so as not to bump the sensibilities of the big lobby. This is not a feeling of the Group of Italian Left: several times the speakers of the provision here in the Senate have expressed a certain insufferance for the uncertainties of the Government, which have slowed down the discussion to a great extent; issues on which the case of the resignation of the former minister Guidi was grafted. However, the change of watch at the MISE did not lead to a real acceleration of the times. But not only the rapporteurs: the President of the 10th Commission, Senator Mucchetti, has pointed out in recent days how the measure "beside positive rules," also contains rules in favour of organized interests or monopolies, and how the same has been saved in extremis by the votes of the center-right opposition: a fairly clear signal of the deep unity of views, in the economic field, between the current majority and the opposition proper to center-right. Then there is the case of changes made a few weeks ago in the House. There has been talk of "very light" changes: but then what was the point of doing them, except to further slow down the times of a measure that has been floating in these classrooms for years or to grant favors to someone? In fact, it will also be small changes, the meaning of which, however, is always to promote the interests of the great giants of our country. How else can one read the change on the issue of greater protection of the energy market, namely to prevent auctioning the supply of electricity for users who have not opted for an operator at the end of the protected market, assigning them automatically to those who previously guaranteed the supply on behalf of the single buyer, if not to favour ENEL, which holds about 85% of the contracts in question? Also in this case you can borrow the words of Senator Cucchetti who knows very well the provision and the mechanisms that governed it: the modification is the result of a dictation by mail of ENEL. All this net of the considerations of merit, including the assessments of the Energy and Gas Authority, which states that the prices of the highest protection are lower than those of the free market of 15 to 20%. Moreover, on the energy market, the choice not to listen to the demands on self-production of energy, that is, the possibility for a small renewable energy producer to give it up and sell it to its neighbours, as happens practically throughout Europe. Here too a gift to the giants of energy, who have no interest in moving on to the distributed generation. Again, Autorithy's appeals have been unheard of. Or, the question on which the Group of the Italian Left has been fighting since the beginning of the measure and which concerns the liberalisation of C-belt medicines, which would have allowed a segment that is worth about 5 billion euros to promote savings for citizens, as well as a possibility and hope for the parapharmacies. All this at a time when - it is data diffused on 31 July from the Censis - the private expense for the health has gone up to 37,3 billion euros, with 12,2 million Italians who have renounced or postponed health care (1,2 million more than the year precedence). But why allow competition to be directed towards families and citizens, or to the production of new businesses and jobs, as in the case of parapharmacies? By the way, at the same time, capital companies are allowed to own pharmacies, with the only 20% limit of control of the regional territory: this is a fifth, not a small one. It is a forecast in stark contrast to the competitive mechanisms, which can only harm small pharmacies and parapharmacies. Finally, there is the question of the art market, for which this measure is limited to compressing the controls exercised by the State in virtue of the necessary protection of cultural heritage, provided for in Article 9 of the Constitution, on antique dealers, galleries and auction houses, subtracting from that control the goods that are under the age of seventy. In this way, the works of artists such as Balla, Carrà, Fontana, Burri, Melotti, Morandi, De Chirico, Guttuso and others can be demolished, destroyed, damaged, sold, altered, used for non-consonic uses, restored and transformed without control, because no longer protected by the code of cultural goods. This is only in order to allow them to freely leave the national territory. Same forecast for goods with an economic value of less than 13,500 euros: a price that, as is evident, is not static, immutable over time and that is not even decided by an independent part, but self-declared. It is evident, among other things, how the automatic exit of self-declared goods will favor the international circulation of stolen, counterfeit, false, inalienable goods because they belong to public or para-public bodies, which need prior marketing permissions, detached from monuments, architectural complexes and collections without the necessary permissions, illegally owned, because they were dug or found underwater after 1909, subject to tax fraud, money laundering, financial operations managed by organized crime, increasingly used to invest in the market of art of the twentieth century and contemporary art. For this interweave of considerations of merit, method, opportunity and timing, the Group of Italian Left will vote strongly against this measure, hoping that the contained forecasts do not impact excessively negatively on the lives of the citizens of our country. Other than the law on competition: this, on which you put your trust, is the law of the strongest! [[Applause from the Misso-SI-SEL Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-08-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-871.ana.u30	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-08-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-871.ana.u31	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-08-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-871.ana.u32	CASTALDI (M5S). Madam President, before the imposition of confidence, we were now at the fourth reading of the annual draft law for the market and competition. This is the first annual draft law that has been approved since it was decided to do so in 2009. What have we been through since then? Challenges between Ministries and former Ministers, conflicts of interest, continuous stop and go by the Government on the substance of the measures, continuous cuts and sewn amendments and lobbying which, unfortunately, still have their weight. The feeling that arouses all this is that it continues to be the provision of lost opportunities. A feeling that has remained and increased. It is an omnibus measure that deals with all sectors of the market and therefore inevitably exposed to the interference and pressure of a large number of lobbyists and pressure groups. The President of the 10th Commission, Senator Cucchetti, calls them organized interests or monopolies. How can you blame him? The changes made to the text during the last passage in Montecitorio, on which we should have concentrated the work of the Senate, concerned insurance, telemarketing, energy, dental companies and the reclamation of the land previously used by disused fuel distributors. Changes that, according to some of the majority, were not relevant and that therefore we, in the Senate, should have accepted without too much discussion. And so, with confidence, it happens. The rapporteur, Senator Luigi Marino, considered it appropriate to safeguard the credibility of the Senate, invited us, also on behalf of the other rapporteur, Senator Tomaselli, to withdraw all the amendments tabled. Amendments on which the opinion would otherwise have been opposed. And this - I read from the Report of the Commission's work, in addition to having heard it personally - despite the fact that the rapporteurs consider it important and to take into account some of the proposals for amendments and note the presence of some critical elements in the text. They consider the draft law to be a priority at this point and to approve it definitively and rapidly, referring any corrections to the first relevant measure. The famous first useful measures, which are the ones that never arrive. Do you really believe or do you want us to believe that there can be, before the end of the legislature, a further measure - even as a matter of urgency - on competition, aimed at modifying or supplementing the draft law under consideration, correcting the problematic or even erroneous rules that are recognized by widespread awareness there are contained in it? Dixit cows. These were certainly other times when the rapporteur, Mr Tomaselli, said: When Government, parties and the majority decide that this measure is useful to the country and not yet another area of political confrontation, we are available, having also exhausted our dose of patience for a long time. The rejections of the amendments, not just ours, of course, were all exquisitely political, no merit. An attitude, this of the majority and of the PD, which confirms that for them everything that the lobbyists and the unbiased authorities ask for is not touched. We do not understand why the House of Deputies can change and we risk losing credibility if we table and adopt amendments and reopen the debate. On the other hand, trust lies with us. Let me give an example that concerns me: the famous amendment on telemarketing, the one that also received the Renzi edict, after the silence of Renzi himself lasted over a year. At the time - we are talking about three months ago - Senator Tomaselli, rapporteur of the bill, stated that the controversy grafted in those hours by the Data Protection Officer and taken from several parts on a telemarketing norm seemed really the classic storm in a glass of water. He continued by saying that claiming that this rule removed the requirement of prior consent for promotional calls, "liberalizing" the phenomenon of wild telemarketing was a completely unfounded consideration. In fact, the approved standard, on the proposal of the 5 Star Movement Group, introduced new burdens on those who work in this sector, aimed at better identifying subjects and subjects of communication. The text, of course - Mr Dem explained then - was always improved in order to avoid doubts or misunderstandings, but really far from the harmful consequences of which we were talking. And we would certainly have improved that, Mr President, during the examination in the Senate Chamber, the possibility that it then failed as a result of the imposition of the question of confidence on the Commission text by the Government. Well, I tell you that the rule (which received the positive opinion of the Government) was cassed in the House; we re-proposed it in the Senate, but we were told: withdrawal or rejection. Would this be the behavior in the face of an improved text? And the loss of credibility would be the Senate, ours, of all of us senators? And then I hear in the Commission saying that we are surprised by the vote in favour of some senators, who support the Government, to amendments to the oppositions, when my amendment - I remember - even had the government's favorable opinion. As the Leader of the 5 Star Movement in 10th Commission, Senator Girotto, said, we are certainly not the only ones to criticize this measure, as criticism has been voiced even by authoritative members of the majority. I would remind you that the President of the 10th Commission has stated that this is an unambitious law and that it would have been better to hit monopolies more. Mrs Lanzillotta, at the time, also considered this as a measure which contained insufficient rules; then, a few days ago, at the second stage, in general discussion, she changed her judgment, while ours remains absolutely negative. And how could it not continue to be so, when we heard President Cucchetti say, in the Commission, that, with regard to his amendment on the electricity market and the safeguard service, the House of Deputies, unfortunately, has made a mess dictated by email from ENEL itself. Ma'am, did you hear that? E-mailed by ENEL itself. He also said that he was tired of seeing the reasons for political policy prevail - imagines us, President - on the issues of merit - and that, since it is the only measure of the legislature on competition, it could well differ from the definitive approval, given the overall timing of the process, correcting a clear twist that otherwise is destined to remain and produce its effects, and that on his amendment 1.1, which we also voted on, the text approved by the Senate had excluded the tacit renewal for insurance policies of the branch damages of all types, because it constitutes a privilege of insurance companies and is not in the interests of policyholders. The House, having to make one of the "irrelevant changes" (which do not seem so irrelevant to me), has instead restored this mechanism: it is the text of the insurance cartel, certainly not in favour of competition. All this confirms our opinion expressed in general discussion already at second reading on this bill: to brazenly facilitate insurance, to allow pharmacies to continue to have the monopoly on the sale of C- band drugs, to maintain the patent linkage (the rule that hinders the marketing of generic medicines after the expiry of the patent), not to abandon the defenses of narrow interest groups against consumers-citizens. Perhaps the best definition of this bill has been provided by the journalist of the newspaper "Il Fatto quotidiana" Palombi who, paraphrasing Orwell and his new language, photographs this bill as follows: Competition is a monopoly. And again: "Here it is, inside this wheelchair every lobby has put in or tried to put in a series of rules precisely to compress the market and competition by fucking, for overmarket, the customer. This is the case of the end of the protected electric market that will give 23 million customers to companies in the sector at prices of 15-20 percent higher than those they pay now. There are also favors for insurance (the lobby that has cashed less) and - "competition is monopoly" - in favour of the concentration of pharmacies' property or to allow banks to take the entire market of private homes (now they will be able, what before forbidden, to open their engineering studio). In short, and in short, a hand pursues competition and an invisible hand (but not much) leads to monopoly. The oxymoron in which you navigate is to approve an antitrust measure that instead favors monopolies. For all these reasons, our vote would have been strongly opposed to the measure and will obviously be contrary to confidence. I take advantage of these last seconds to thank for the work done by the speakers and all the members of the offices of the 10th The Commission, with whom we have worked in a positive way. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-08-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-871.ana.u33	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-08-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-871.ana.u34	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-08-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-871.ana.u35	PELINO (FI-PdL XVII). Madam President, representatives of the Government, ladies and gentlemen, more than two years have passed since the start of the process of the draft law on the annual law for the market and competition, the examination of which began on 3 April 2015. We are, therefore, at the fourth reading and this has led to a sharp slowdown, absurd for a law that should have an annual frequency. I would just like to remind you that we have been hesitating about the first law in this area since 2009, when the instrument of the annual law for the market and competition was established. Nor has it served to speed up the path of the law the instrument of the question of trust, a request that has been made only to preclude the possibility of making changes in the Senate Chamber, in a text that seemed definitive and which has instead been re-modified by the House. We have, since the beginning of our work, highlighted our concerns about the text that has come to the Commission in industry; the doubts of a liberal force, which raises the fundamental problem of contesting the rules of the market and competition with the protection of consumers and workers who risk being crushed by unfair competition. And it is before everyone's eyes the immobility of our country. We are almost at a standstill, the economy is moving at a slower pace than the European average, which grows slower than the rest of the world. The aim of the market and competition is to create opportunities, to innovate the old models of producing, at the same time encouraging the creation of new jobs, of new companies, to have better products every day at lower prices. And speaking of rules that encourage employment, yesterday's data, if read well, show that the jobs act only created precarious, fixed-term work, often contracts of one or two days in place of vouchers. Work creates an economy that is able to grow steadily and in a significant way. An effective competition law should therefore be timely and bring back to market level those areas which do not allow the most accurate comparison between supply and demand. And the comparison on the market between the different players must take place equally: that is, we must consider the conditions of departure of all those who intend to contend with the market. Obviously, in addition to the general rules, which are always valid, there must be provisions to be updated, following the evolution of markets and new technologies, which have an important impact on the economy. We Italian entrepreneurs discount doing business in a country that retains an excess of rules, authorizations and controls, which slow down every initiative. Added to this is a tax burden among the highest in the world, also linked to a series of often excessive and unnecessary tax obligations. So the first obstacle to remove is that of bureaucracy, which undermines our competitiveness towards the rest of the world. Then, within every single sector, it is right that there should be rules, but that they should be simple and easy to implement. The annual instrument of the Competition Act will therefore have to be revised and will have to take into account all aspects of doing business in Italy. The text dismissed by the House makes several changes to that of the Senate Industry Commission. Some in peius - if you look at the ratio of competition - as the norm concerning insurance policies branch damages of every type, which at their expiry, can be tacitly renewed, while the Senate had foreclosed this possibility. In addition, the House has abolished the rules on unwanted communications, i.e. the necessary contents of unsolicited voice contracts by operators vis-à-vis subscribers and the fact that it would be established that the call is permitted only when the subscriber, having acquired the above information, gives an explicit consent. This means less protection as regards the protection of personal data. In addition, there are changes to some areas of work and production, energy, insurance, dental, reclamation of contaminated areas and petrol stations in disposal. In the exhausting shuttle, some changes introduced in the Senate have also remained in the Chamber, such as the installation at discounted prices for motorists who will equip their vehicle with the electronic device commonly called the Black Box. The dental sector, on the other hand, has further specified the criteria for entitlement to practise the profession. In the field of cultural heritage, on the other hand, privileges remain in the text for the exclusive benefit of antique dealers and art dealers and on this I would like to say a few words. In absolute contrast to the principles that inspired it, the draft competition law does not remove any obstacle to the free deployment of the art market, but only eliminates the controls that the State exercises on antique dealers, galleries and auction houses according to the tasks of protecting the cultural heritage entrusted to it by Article 9 of the Constitution. In particular, and I would like to point out, we are opposed to the raising of the age that a work must have in order to be considered a cultural asset, from the present 50 to the 70 years, and we are against the liberalization of the definitive exit from the territory of the Country of all cultural goods that have an economic value - among other things self-declared - less than 13,500 euros. A partial compensation is provided for the introduction of the electronic register among those who trade in cultural goods for the preventive control of things free to go out. In order to reduce controls, unfortunately, the text eliminates a part from the national cultural heritage by establishing that some assets that are part of it today, tomorrow will not come back and therefore will no longer have to pass, among other things, to the examination of the export offices of the Ministry in order to leave the territory of the Country. The text, unfortunately not amended by the House, favours and protects the interests of the few, to the total detriment of those of all the other citizens who are being taken away important and substantial segments of the national cultural heritage without any advantage. Proof that the measures relating to cultural goods were not one of those requested by the Market and Competition Authority. Just as we continue to reiterate our clear opposition to the rules that harm taxi drivers, penalising the work and economic sacrifice of thousands of people in the name of unfair competition and not putting ourselves in the problem of guaranteeing the quality of the service that online platforms are unable to ensure. We are therefore faced with a contradictory, insufficient law, after which we will need new interventions and a greater boost to market rules by the independent authorities. As far as the interests of citizens are concerned, little has been done about the main services they enjoy on a daily basis. Provision will have to be made for the procurement of local public services, which are the bulk of the economy and the daily rates for consumers. With series competitions, of European type, will be the main players of the field of utilities to confront on the market and, once obtained the entrusts, to measure the levels of own efficiency and productivity, managing to render better services at lower rates. Finally, competition rules serve where they are included in a framework of regulatory, bureaucratic and tax simplification, which facilitates the lives of consumers and workers. Otherwise, approving an annual competition law can even become an unnecessary exercise, if not, in some cases, truly harmful. With these last considerations I announce the contrary vote of the Forza Italia Group. [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-08-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-871.ana.u36	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-08-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-871.ana.u37	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-08-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-871.ana.u38	(0,45 p.m.) TOMASELLI (PD). Madam President, representatives of the Government, ladies and gentlemen, allow me too to begin my speech by thanking, first of all, my Group, which gives me the opportunity to make this explanation of vote, having served as rapporteur together with my colleague Luigi Marino during the long parliamentary process that marked the examination of the draft law in title. I thank my colleague Luigi Marino for the work we have done together and the members of the 10th President. - I call the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats. I would also like to thank the Commission Offices and also the Secretary-General, Mr Gentile, for the efforts he has made to follow up our work. Let me also thank Minister Anna Finocchiaro and the chairman of the Group of the Democratic Party, Senator Zanda, because without their determination and commitment this bill would probably not be on the eve, as I hope, of a final vote giving the country an important but controversial law. We have reached the last step, the final step, of one of the most complex measures of the entire legislature for the breadth of the issues dealt with, but at the same time one of the draft laws from the most controversial and tortuous parliamentary process that has been examined in recent years. The text has returned to the examination of the Senate Assembly following the reading with amendments that the Chamber of Deputies has made over the past few weeks, three months after the first reading of this Assembly (the second of the entire bill). These were limited, however important, amendments which Mr Marino referred to at the beginning of this debate, which I do not think change the overall sign of the measure as we had fired it after the lengthy examination in the Industry Commission. During these two days of debate on the draft law before us, several colleagues raised a question that we asked ourselves in this House three months ago: could more be done? Of course we do, but despite this our judgment was and remains that of a useful measure, which goes in the desired direction and urged not only by the Competition and Market Authority, but by many sectors of society that look at this opportunity as an opportunity to be seized. It is undoubtedly a first part of a path that in the coming months and years, through the next competition laws, will have to try to try to remove the additional obstacles that stand in the way of the wider opening of the markets and to trigger a virtuous circle of greater competitiveness and growth of the country. A part of the work that belonged to all of us has been done, even though it is not a minor obstacle, starting with the times of examination and approval, which have multiplied completely unmistakably. Despite these adversities, as we claimed at the first reading in this House, but I would like to reiterate this here, on very important issues such as insurance, energy, professional services, pharmacies, credit and transport, we have kept the right bar of opening up markets to wider competition, one with the identification of an adequate system of guarantees for consumers and users that can avoid distortions and penalties. It was a challenge not easy in the presence of issues of such wide interest to the country and on which we have legitimately witnessed and continue to witness a continuous arm wrestling between opposing interests. A number of issues have been raised during the debate and the debate. I would like to recall a few of them quickly, and then I would like to dwell only on one in particular. With regard to the subject of professions (I am thinking of pharmacies), we shared - and we were also ready to amend the text in this House, if we had the conditions - the perplexities on a threshold that could be too high. Mr Mandelli and Mr D'Ambrosio Lettieri spoke about this yesterday. We have worked together in the Commission to introduce what is, however, a constraint on the entry of capital into the management of pharmacies, a choice which we share and which we claim, but which goes in some way within market rules that must not penalise the pharmacies institution and the professionalism of pharmacists. I think we will have to return to this issue. With regard to the issue of parapharmacies, although we did not find the conditions to do so, we were ready and there was consent to resolve once and for all and to give an organic and definitive solution to this issue. It is an all-Italian experience, but that - let us be honest - has not worked in these years or, if it has worked, has not worked according to the expectations of when this institute was born. We were ready and I hope that in a next measure we can achieve an organic solution, which can only be to widen the entry into the world of pharmacies of the owners of parapharmacies pharmacists; this is the structural solution on which I think there can be a broad consensus in the country. The second theme is that of RC auto insurance; also this theme has returned in controversial terms. I understand propaganda, but I would like to resist responding to the tone of propaganda and remain on the merits of the issues. It seems to me more useful to give a reflection of merit than to pursue the tones of propaganda. On the RC car we unanimously shared in this House, as well as in the House, the need to introduce rules that could bring down the very strong discrasia that exists between various areas of the country to constant virtuosity among motorists. We have done so by correcting and improving the standard laid down by the House and making it more effective and more certain. A rule that will produce additional discounts and sensitive to citizens virtuous motorists from the North and the Mezzogiorno, provided they insist on certain conditions, starting with the installation of the black box. In particular, those realities in which discrasia is highest compared to the national average of the cost of car policies will be rewarded. There is another theme that came back this morning too and I am sorry that my colleague Pelino has fallen into a sort of dialectical accident, with whom we have always worked in great harmony. There are no rules that harm taxi drivers in this measure. The only rule that concerns taxi drivers, as well as the rental with driver and, more generally, the issue of non-scheduled public transport, is a rule that we have inserted by which the Government is delegated to issue implementing decrees meeting a series of criteria that we have set in the delegation. There is no immediately operational rule, nor does it harm taxi drivers. There is a delegation who wants to tackle systematically the issue of modernising this service, putting at the centre the irreplaceable role of taxis, but not closing their eyes to technological innovation, which changes the customs and customs of citizens and of each of us daily. I am thinking about the subject of applications. I would also like to say this to my colleague Cervellini (Mr Cervellini has read many newspapers on the subject of competition, but I think he has not read the bill at all: I invite him to do so): when he emphasizes the issue of lobbying - I say this by assuming responsibility for the things I say, as I have always done - if there is a lobby that, due to the violence of the tones, the arguments and also the ways in which we have had to confront ourselves, is among the most violent, it is precisely that of some fringes representing taxi drivers. I still face the scene of the Capital of Italy blocked in recent months by a sudden strike by taxi drivers during the hours in which the Ministry of Infrastructure and Transport held the summit between Minister Delrio and all the trade union acronyms of taxi drivers. This is a lobbying that damages the categories concerned, does not cause good cause with the interests of the unions and damages especially the country. Finally, there is the issue of energy, which is also controversial. I don't have time to get into this. Energy, and in particular the cessation of the so-called "more protection" regime and the transition to the free market, is a subject that has been very passionate in recent months and in recent weeks here too. There has been a debate on the erroneous and instrumental assumption that the rules we are about to lay off are useful to some operators and that they can produce increases in bills. In fact, the current regime, of which, by some, it is hoped unmistakably the continuation, if not modified, would only prolong a situation of substantial oligopoly and administered prices, which would undermine competition between operators and the mobility of customers and would not activate active consumer protagonism. We have spoken on this. I would like to remind you that the regime of greater protection - through which the single buyer deals with the supply of customers who have not chosen their supplier - is defined as transitional by the same discipline that introduced it. More than ten years after the opening up of the retail market to competition, it seems to us that the conditions for the market and consumer maturity have been created in order to complete that courageous and innovative plan of liberalisation, in full harmony with the European guidelines on the subject. The single buyer has played an excellent role in recent years, but at the same time the existence of a price regime set by the regulator and perceived as administered has helped to impose the market. In fact, it discouraged the mobility of customers and discouraged operators to compete in a more lively way, competing on the quality and type of services offered as well as on the price. If you do not engage, you do not motivate the demand, then it becomes difficult to see progress in this area and it is also more complicated to convey more efficient solutions in the supply and consumption of energy. With the rules that we have provided (undoubtedly improved), moreover, we define a series of ex post and ex ante conditions and a series of instruments aimed at ensuring the proper functioning of the market and the protection of the weakest customers. The rules are specifically identified in the bill that we are about to fire. In addition, in order to meet the needs of several parties and for a step-by-step and as effective as possible towards the free market, we have already accepted, in the first reading in the Senate, the amendment proposal put forward by the Article 1-MDP Group to postpone this deadline until 1 July 2019. The perplexities of some, therefore, here again, are ingenious towards the effort that has been made, with the dual objective of promoting market competition and strengthening the protagonism and active role of consumers. Moreover, the Energy Authority and the Ministry of Economic Development themselves will be the protagonists of the transitional phase. In short, it seems to us that this measure goes in the right direction, even if it is between indicated limits and extended times. Now it is a matter of continuing with conviction on this path with the contribution of everyone, taking advantage of mistakes and stumbling blocks, starting with the fact that - I hope - the next competition law, when it comes, must perhaps be less ambitious but more streamlined and targeted and therefore more incisive. For these reasons, I am truly convinced that I am voting in favour of the Democratic Party Group's final adoption of the draft law on competition and market opening. [[Applause from the PD and Aut groups (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT) - PSI-MAIE.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-08-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-871.ana.u39	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote in dissent from my Group.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-08-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-871.ana.u40	I take note of that and give you the floor.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-08-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-871.ana.u41	MUCCHETTI (PD). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, representatives of the Government, it is with sadness that I am taking the floor to announce that I will not take part in the vote on the draft competition law. To observe party discipline in the vote is important, I know that, especially when the government raises the question of trust, but I fear that this time the question of trust has been asked not to overcome the obstruction of the opposition, but to avoid the vote of the Assembly on uncomfortable amendments. [[Applause from the M5S Group, LN-Aut and Senator Rizzotti]] , like those that some senators had proposed on insurance and energy. These amendments were rejected in the Commission because of the absences and abstentions of centre-right minorities, which perhaps in this House, in line with the statements they have just made, could have behaved differently. On the other hand, confidence should not be required in such a time as to blow up the general final discussion on a measure that, at least in words, is crucial for the competitiveness of the country. I am particularly sorry that the PD Group, to which I am honoured to belong, has not asked to use its time even in the debate on trust, in order to prevent the Senate from meeting again tomorrow, although the timetable provides for it. [[Comments from the PD Group.]] [[Applause from the M5S Group]] I have not interrupted anyone and I ask my colleagues, especially the PD, to have the same good education. [[Applause from the M5S, LN-Aut and Senator Comrade Groups]] Tomorrow there would have been no quorum, because in the absence of early elections the holidays are anticipated? Or because the difficulties of a group - better said, a majority or, better said, not just a majority - would have emerged, because in the House of Deputies there were two-partisan convergences on certain rules - which, on the substance of certain important issues, made the competition law an instrument to favour or safeguard some large companies, of which I refer to: Enel, Generali, Unipol, Walgreen Boots Alliance, "Big pharma." I was saying that it is with sadness that I will not participate in the vote. I would add that I will not participate with concern. On very few other occasions I made use of Article 67 of the Constitution: on the occasion of the first vote on constitutional reform and the vote on Italicum. The story then quickly showed who, on those two occasions, had seen right and who did not. I fear that the same will happen on this front too, and that is why I am concerned. You might ask me, because I voted for confidence in the sitting on 3 May, because I am not doing the same thing now. I would like to say that I voted for the confidence of 3 May in spite of strong doubts, of which I count in the written text, which I ask the President to be kind enough to acquire in the proceedings.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-08-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-871.ana.u42	The Presidency shall authorise it accordingly.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-08-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-871.ana.u43	MUCCHETTI (PD). Thank you, Mr President. Today I would like to recall the main of these perplexities: it has to do with the level of our general cultural and political debate on competition and it relates to the basic philosophy of the measure, designed by the Renzi Government, for which particular issues of various importance are addressed, following here and there the logic of the Bruno Leoni Institute, a very brilliant think tank, of liberal orientation, funded by the large groups, including the Enel. We do this and we escape the radical questions of our time, which are those posed by the new monopolies of the network and not by the old. It is sad and worrying for all of us in this House, but especially for us in the Democratic Party that it is a gentleman like Steve Bannon, President Trump's chief strategist, to ask the question of how to deal with Google and Facebook (not taxi drivers) and to answer that they should be regulated as a new public utility, while we struggle to launch a web tax. In short, the confidence I had voted for despite the perplexities because the Government asking for it and the PD granting it promised a similar path to the House, so as to allow the Government Gentiloni Silveri the immediate launch of a decree-law that would correct some distortions of this bill and launch a more ambitious and targeted competition policy. The ambition lies not in the amount of issues that are being addressed, but in the importance of the few issues that need to be addressed and resolved. Instead, the House has lengthened the times and modified the bill, worsening it, as the same speaker Luigi Marino has recognized with the usual intellectual honesty. This draft law is the only competition policy measure in this parliamentary term and it is too late to prevent its effects if they are not positive. We should have made five annual competition laws; instead, we bring home one that is what it is. Finally, I note that it was difficult not to say impossible confrontation... PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Get it done. [[Comments from the PD Group]] MUCCHETTI (PD). Allow me to finish; perhaps it can be useful. TAVERNA (M5S). He is their rapporteur and they are taking his word off. MUCCHETTI (PD). If the PD Group believes that I have to take the floor, there is no problem. [[Applause from the M5S, LN-Aut, Misto-SEL-SI and Senator De Pin. Comments from the PD Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-08-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-871.ana.u44	Senator Cows, he had three minutes and spoke for eight. You can't complain that you're being taken away from her.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-08-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-871.ana.u45	AIROLA (M5S). How many speakers have spoken more? PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator Airola, you haven't been called into question. Senator Cucchetti, if you'd like to conclude, you have the right to do so. MUCCHETTI (PD). It is with sadness that I will not participate in the vote. Finally, I note that technical comparison has been difficult; I say it with figures in my hand. How many of us feel new Cavours who believe they are pursuing sophisticated political strategies to which every time the merit of the issues must be sacrificed? There are many and they are convinced that the merit will follow (like the ingenuity for General de Gaulle), but unlike us, Cavour, before practicing the artichoke policy, had gone to France to study modern agriculture to make it in Piedmont. So, if I say that the mere cancellation of the service of greater protection without providing antitrust remedies will determine the automatic transfer of 19 million customers from the single buyer to Enel, at no cost for the same Enel, that will derive from this measure a margin greater than a billion, I would like to be told that the budgets and presentations to analysts, that I have always mentioned, must be read in another way and told me what is this way. I would like to be told that the antitrust limits are no longer what they have always been, i.e. a way to break or avoid the creation of excessively dominant positions that are considered harmful, but that they are a snare that reduces the future benefit for a state-owned company. Unfortunately, this confrontation never happened. He's just discerned the market, basically in abstract, taking for granted what he's not supposed to be. For these reasons, and also to defend the dignity of the Senate, compromised in comparison with the House, I believe it is the duty of the President of the Industry Commission to follow a gesture to the words. This gesture is not participation in the vote [[Comments of the PD Group]] , but not without first thanking the rapporteurs, the colleagues of the Commission, the offices, as well as the Minister and the Undersecretary for the good work they have done: they and not others, above or next to them. [[Applause from the M5S, LN-Aut, Art.1-MDP, Misto-SI-SEL and Senator De Pin.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-08-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-871.ana.u46	We shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-08-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-871.ana.u47	I refer to the vote on bill No. 2085-B, composed of only Article 1, in the text already approved by the Chamber of Deputies, modified by the Senate and again amended by the Chamber of Deputies, on which the Government has put the question of trust. I recall that, pursuant to Rule 94, second paragraph, of the Constitution and pursuant to Rule 161, paragraph 1, of the Rules of Procedure, the vote on trust will take place by roll-call vote. Each senator called by the Senator Secretary will have to vote before the Presidency. The senators for trust will answer yes; the opposing senators will answer no; the senators who intend to abstain will speak accordingly. They asked Senators Olivero, Marinello, Nencini, Pinotti and Minniti to vote first. I urge the Senator Secretary to proceed to the appeal of these senators. (The above-mentioned senators respond to the appeal.) I now draw by lot the name of the senator from whom the roll call will begin. (The name of Senator Fattori is drawn by lot.) I invite the Senator Secretary to proceed with the appeal, starting with Senator Fattori. FRAVEZZI, secretary, makes the appeal. The senators answered: Aiello, Albano, Albertini, Amati, Angioni, Anitori, Astorre Battista, Berger, Rosstuzzi, Bianconi, Bondi, Borioli, Bubbico, Buemi Caleo, Campanella, Santini, Capacchione, Cardinals, Casini, Chiti, Cirinna, Cocincich, Collina, Colucci, Conte, Corsini, Cucca D'Adda, Dalla Tor, Dalla Zuanna, D'Ascolo, De Biasi, Del Barba, Della Vedova, Di Giorgi, Dirincich, D'Onghia Esposito Stefano Fabbri, Fasiolo, Fattorini, Favero, Gideli, Ferrara Elena, Filippin, Fincchiaro, Fissoni, Fornaro, Fravezzi Gatti, Gentile, Gianni, Faverni, Favero, Gianetti, Gionetti, Gio, Gio, Gionetti, Gio, Gio, Gorara, Gio, Gio, Gorara, Gorara, Lolina, Gorina, Golina, Golina, Golina, Golina, Golina, Golina, Golina, Golano, Golano, Golina, Gol. The senators: Airola, Alicata, Amoruso, Archeri, Arrigoni, Augello, Auricchio, Azzollini Barani, Barozzino, Bellot, Bertacco, Bertorotta, Bilardi, Bisinella, Blundo, Bocchino, Bonfrisco, Buccarella, Bulgarelli Calderoli, Caliendo, Candiani, Cappelletti, Carraro, Casaletto, Cassinelli, Castaldi, Catalfo, Centinario, Ceroni, Cervellini, Ciompolillo, Cioffi, Comaroli, Compagnone, Consiglio, Cotti, Crimi, Crosio D'Alì, D'Ambrosio Lettieri, De Cristofaro, Gasparri, De Pietro, De Pin, De Siano, Di Giacomo, Divina, Gonno Falanga, Fattori, Ferrara Mario, Floris, Fucksia Gaetti, Gasparri, Gaetti (Senators Bencini, Romans Maurizio and Stefano declare that they do not participate in the vote). PRESIDENT. - The debate is I declare the vote closed and invite the Secretary Senators to proceed with the counting of votes. (Secretary Senators proceed to count votes). I declare the result of the roll-call vote by appeal of the bill n. 2085-B, composed of only Article 1, in the text already approved by the Chamber of Deputies, modified by the Senate and again modified by the Chamber of Deputies, on which the Government raised the question of trust: [[Senators present 263 Senators voting 259 Majority 130 Favorable 146 Contrari 113]] The Senate approves. All the amendments and agendas submitted to the text of the draft law are therefore not included.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-08-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-871.ana.u48	The next item is the joint debate on the resolutions adopted by the Council of Ministers on Italy's participation in international missions, adopted on 28 July 2017 (Doc. XXIV, Nos. 78 and 80). The reports have already been printed and distributed. The rapporteur, Senator Vattuone, asked to supplement the written report on document XXIV, No 78. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-08-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-871.ana.u49	Mr President, Government and colleagues, I am also speaking on behalf of the other rapporteur, Senator Sangalli. With this measure we find ourselves within the scope of Article 2 of Law No 145 of 2016, the so-called framework law on international missions, which provides that every new mission of the armed forces will be deliberated by the Council of Ministers, after communication of the President of the Republic and eventual convocation of the Supreme Council of Defense and subsequently sent to the Chambers for authorization, indicating obviously all the data relating to the mission with the clarification of the geographical area of intervention, the objectives, the legal basis of reference, the composition of the structures to be sent, including the maximum number of the units of personnel involved, as well as the scheduled duration and the financial requirements for the current year. In detail, the mission will consist of sending Italian military units to support the Libyan Coast Guard on the basis of a specific request made by the internationally recognized government of that country on 23 July. The purpose of the new commitment, which we entrust to our armed forces, is to support the Libyan Government's capabilities in managing its borders and, in particular, to support the Libyan security forces in the control and fight of illegal immigration and trafficking of human beings according to the following tasks: protection and support of the means of the legitimate Libyan Government engaged in the control and the contrast of illegal immigration through the detachment of one or more units in the Libyan territorial waters; reconnaissance in Libyan territory for the determination of the support activities to be carried out; liaison activities in favour of the Navy and the Coast Guard and collaboration for the establishment of a maritime operational center of surveillance and coordination in Libyan territory. With regard to the legal foundations of the resolution, in addition to the aforementioned letter of 23 July, I recall that the mission is consistent with the legal framework of the United Nations resolutions, which - as is well known - have recognized the Government of al-Serraj as the only legitimate interlocutor and have hoped the implementation of agreements in order to consolidate the capacities of the Libyan Government with interventions of a technical, economic, security and counter-terrorism nature. Finally, I recall that another legal basis can be found in the previous Memorandum of Understanding signed by President al-Serraj and President Gentiloni on 2 February 2017, as well as in the previous Resolution of the Council of Ministers of 14 January 2017 on the extension of the air-ship Safe Sea, already authorised by both branches of Parliament by the resolutions of 8 March 2017, from which the units intended for this mission will be taken. On the basis of all these elements, today's mission is perfectly in continuity with the internationally shared line of support for the Libyan Presidential-Governmental Council of National Agreement and with our country's commitment in the framework of Libya's stabilisation process. We can mention as an example the training activities in favour of the Coast Guard, which are already in place; the launch of Operation Hippocrates, with the realization of a field hospital in Misrata, which has already cared about 3,000 people; the fact that in April we provided Libya with four coastguards. As regards the arrangements for the mission to be examined by the House today, they consist of two naval means (one unit for technical and logistical support and one patroller), with the possibility of integration - if deemed necessary - with additional arrangements coming from the same mission. The staff employed will also be taken from the quota already authorised by Parliament (always with reference to the Safe Sea). The scheduled duration is from 1 August to 31 December of the current year. Finally, with regard to the financial profiles, the specific resolution is that there will be no change compared to the requirements already approved for the current year for the Safe Sea operation. These are the formal prerequisites. Of course there are also non-formal, but substantial and merit-based assumptions for effective intervention: and here the analysis is extremely complex because of the complexity of the causes that give rise to the migratory phenomenon and the geopolitical context that makes it difficult to solve it immediately. It is clear that military intervention is not enough to solve complex crises such as the one we are discussing; a multidimensional response and shared political and integration tools are needed. The relations of ministers Alfano and Pinotti yesterday and that of Minister Minniti a few days ago to the Commissions for Foreign Affairs and Defence of the Senate give reason to the overall picture of interventions, initiatives and measures in which today's mission fits and which represent the implementation of a multidimensional policy of Italy. Only in order to bring to the attention of the Assembly some data I inform that in the last few days, for the first time (as the July statistics say), there has been a substantial reversal of the trend in the number of landings. A few days ago, the European Commission reported, in its regular report on transfers of asylum seekers within the European Union and on the resettlement of refugees, that June was a record month for relocations of migrants from Italy and Greece. The European Union has followed our lead in making the granting of legal visas subject to effective cooperation between the countries of greatest origin of migrants in the return of illegal migrants. The result was that a country like Bangladesh, which is the second in number of migrants in our country, today collaborates effectively. Last Monday, Juncker communicated to Gentiloni, with a letter that I would invite those who are critically expressing on our foreign policy to read, that the European Commission has decided to support with an extraordinary commitment the Italian effort, allocating 100 million and providing experts to accelerate the asylum and repatriation processes and assist communities and local authorities that host migrants and support integration. Always a few days there was a positive meeting in Tunis of the contact group Europe-Africa, with seven European countries (Italy, Austria, France, Germany, Malta, Slovenia and Switzerland), together with Tunisia, Chad, Niger, Algeria, and Libya, with the aim of intervening on the countries of origin to stop the departures of migrants who reach Libya and from there Italy and counter the criminal organizations that manage the traffic of the desert. On Friday there was a meeting in Rome with the Minister of Internal Administration of Mali, who included this country in the consultation table established last May with Chad, Libya and Niger, for cooperation in border management. Yesterday, Minister Alfano informed us of the considerable resources we invest in supporting the border management capacity of countries like Mali. There is also the involvement of the mayors of Libya - as Minister Minniti has announced - and more. But I don't want to get any longer. It can be said that all this is insufficient and certainly the crisis is still wide. However, the fact remains that these are all segments that contribute to defining and articulating a multidimensional and shared policy, which is the only possibility we have to face systemic and complex crises such as migration flows. The activation of these separate channels has the twofold effect, firstly, of building a policy that has some effectiveness and, secondly, of making multilateral institutions credible in their capacity to respond to today's needs, which is an additional value of enormous importance. All these factors clearly demonstrate that the strategy adopted by Italy, without shortcuts or escapes forward, for the issue of migration flows is leading to positive results. It is in this context that today's commitment must be contextualized, which aims to strengthen the Libyan ability to control its Libyan territorial waters and allows us to take a step forward in the fight against illegal immigration and trafficking in human beings, with the aim of reducing the flow of migrants in our country. It is a commitment that will have to be implemented, broadening the tools, in order to address the remote causes of the phenomenon and to improve management capacity in the countries of origin and transit. In conclusion, with our resolution, we support the authorisation for the current year of the Libyan Coast Guard support mission. Parliament intends to monitor the progress of these missions and, therefore, the resolution commits the Government to report to the Chambers by 15 October. More generally, we have tried to gather the comments that emerged from the debate in the Commission, convinced that we are facing a common objective and shared by all. In fact, we believe that with this intervention on the Libya dossier, our country takes a further and important step forward. [[Applause from the PD Group and the Senators Casini and Fornaro]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-08-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-871.ana.u50	The rapporteur, Senator Gasparri, asked to supplement the written report on document XXIV, No 80. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-08-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-871.ana.u51	Mr President, the Forza Italia Group, with this resolution, which was already presented in the Commission yesterday, supported by the leader Paolo Romani, signed by Senator Alicata and shared by the Group, as well as by that area, the Freedom Federation, which also recently called for a strong initiative on the issues of immigration and the Libyan affair, wants to make a contribution - as has already been the case in recent months - to the solution of this emergency. This decision has been taken to send ships to Mediterranean waters, also in agreement with Libya, which has asked for their use in Libyan waters and also in the port of Tripoli. Even if we dose the words, we understand perfectly that the moment is very delicate and President Serraj himself, who leads the Government recognized by the international community, lives a complicated phase. The other day the Commission for the defence of the Libyan Parliament challenged this Italian presence. However, there is not only the Commission, but also the other factions and General Haftar, who do not meet in parliamentary committees, but act on the territory and challenge that Government. Moreover, the Government Gentiloni Silveri was somewhat mocked by Macron: I refer not to the events of Fincantieri, but to the summit between Haftar and Serraj, which was hosted in Paris, when it is Italy, for historical, geographical and geopolitical reasons, to have a right-duty of interest to the Libyan territorial and maritime area, with all that this entails. So far the policies implemented by the Renzi and Gentiloni Silveri governments have been bankrupt. We have seen an increase in the number of landings and in July there was a tendency to stabilize numbers. However, we claim the stimulus of Forza Italia for the possibility of turning these policies upside down. As a group we have requested and obtained the start of the survey of non-governmental organisations, on which the Schengen Commission and other bodies of Parliament have also worked. We therefore obtained that investigation, which ended with a unanimous vote of the Defence Commission. I do not know, Mr President, how often there has been unanimity, but this has been an important case. We therefore voted unanimously in favour of the need to regulate the activities of non-governmental organisations. On the basis of that vote, there has been an action by the Government, of which we note, in Frontex, the European Union and bilateral fora (the interventions are at various levels). Last Monday there was a decision by some non-governmental organizations not to sign that regulation, while others signed it. This morning we welcome the news that in Lampedusa a vessel from one of these non-signatory organizations has been subject to controls. There have been no arrests and other events, but we also take in this morning's event an action of greater control and severity (I do not want to imagine an assessment of the contemporaneity of the Chamber and Senate sessions on these issues). We believe that we should ban the landing of illegal immigrants in Italian ports through these organisations that do not accept a regulation that calls for transparency on funding, police access for controls and security. Many times they are unfortunate, but also judicial authorities have investigated the possible infiltrations of terrorist and criminal groups in these voyages of hope. Therefore, checks may be necessary. There is now a budget of EUR 5 billion for the reception of illegal immigrants and we cannot go on with this level of expenditure. There has been an enrichment of the traffickers of people and even criminal groups in Italy. I am thinking of the CARA of Mineo and Isola Capo Rizzuto, as well as the same Roman scandal. As the famous Buzzi of the red cooperatives said: drugs make less than immigrants. With the expansion of the reception, a plethora of Italian criminals has also been enriched. Italy is not a xenophobic or racist country, it hosts millions of foreigners, but it cannot accommodate everyone. This mission should mark a reversal of course. Forza Italia has always voted in favour of international military missions. This is a different mission. I say this because we speak in the Parliament of the Republic and we do not want to cause misunderstandings in the very delicate relations between Italy and Libya, which the central right-wing governments led by Berlusconi characterized in the sense of dialogue, even if difficult and complicated. If we had followed that path, today we would not have the disaster of landings, which have multiplied throughout Italy. [[Applause from Senators Alicata and Rizzotti]] I do not want to reopen here the controversy about the wrong wars, the conflicts and the pressures that even the Republic's highest institutions made. Days ago, President Grasso, when with a delegation of the Senate, with Senator Latorre and the Senator representing the 5 Star Movement Santangelo we visited Egypt, the Secretary of the Arab League - colleagues will remember - said that the politics of those Governments was a fair policy because it guaranteed dialogue and the Secretary of the Arab League is a long-standing Egyptian diplomat, a person certainly expert. In coherence, therefore, with that path, we do not want to give a blank delegation to the Government, but we want to encourage a turning point: more controls on NGOs, the obligation to sign the regulation in order to have free access and if a boat beats the flag of other countries, go to the countries of which it beats the flag to bring the illegals. Yesterday, the European Union too - and we will deepen the first comments - has in some way endorsed a policy of greater severity and firmness, because humanitarian purposes cannot be removed from the policies of security, border control, limited reception that the countries must exercise, also because 95% of those who arrive here are not refugees from countries in war that can be relocated, but are economic illegals and do not want them by the Austrians, do not want them by Macron France, do not want them by the countries of Central Europe, where Orban and others, rightly, say that if they are illegal they must not enter. Nobody is deceived, therefore: there can be no relocation of the illegal, but of the refugee, but the refugees are a small amount. So let us welcome these ships, and let us welcome a reversal of course, and let us welcome the regulation of NGOs, which we claim, having asked for that work in the Defence Commission. On that occasion important magistrates made statements that also created clamor: I remember the attorney of Catania Zuccaro and the prosecutor of Trapani, who also offered elements on their investigative activity. In conclusion, with this report and with the motion for a resolution, we propose a strong intervention which also concerns the implementation of the third phase of EUNAVFOR MED. This is a bilateral mission Italy-Libya, it has nothing to do with the other missions in progress. However, since there is an international mission that provides for a third phase, we have long been asking the Government - we have done so in this House every time the military missions have been extended - that Italy should take action because the UN is deliberating (this is necessary) and that Libya should request (also necessary) that we move to the third phase of EUNAVFOR MED, which provides for intervention in the ports of Libya and on the Libyan territory. This bilateral mission already allows to enter the port of Tripoli and to go into the Libyan waters to help the Coast Guard to bring back to Libya the illegals. The point is to understand what will happen, if the landings continue, if the unpunished action of the NGOs (and in that case, our consent would fail) or if the bilateral military mission agreed with Libya, of which we are discussing, will lead to a slowdown and - the sky wanted it - a cessation of departures, which are - let us remember - the bearers of many mournings: the percentage of deaths in the Mediterranean has increased because the departures have increased, those who leave pay, are blackmailed, often are brutalized and raped by the traffickers of people. In recent days there has been an international day against the trafficking of people and everyone, from the Pope to President Mattarella, thundered against this horrible practice, but then in the end, if the non-governmental organization acts as a taxi to the boatmen, it helps the traffickers of people. We also need consistency. With our motion for a resolution, therefore, we also call for Italy to commit itself to the activation of the third phase of EUNAVFOR MED, that there may be detention and assistance centres managed by international organisations. If Carlotta Sami and those who deal with these issues, having institutional tasks, were more in Africa than on Rai 3, it would be better, but perhaps they saw that those who preceded them in those positions going to Rai 3 is then taken to the political summits, which perhaps is more comfortable than being in Libya. We are therefore oriented - and we will then see what the conclusions will be - to a positive attitude and we are calling for a constant check on the Government. Yesterday I read that, in response to my intervention in the Joint Defence and Foreign Affairs Commissions of the Chamber and Senate, Minister Pinotti shared the need for a directing booth and yesterday a delicate document by President Serraj was reading at the Copasir. We understand that on some events there is a bond of confidentiality, but there are other news that do not have those constraints and we believe that there should be an exchange on those, because right or wrong, is my country. We have an interest in defending our nation and securing it. Our approach, however, is also bound, Mr President, to parliamentary scrutiny, if necessary. We do not go on vacation, as newspaper headlines: the Commissions have always gathered also in August. We, where necessary, if the mission does not have the success that we hope for, will be the first to ask that the relevant Commissions check the situation. And it is easy to see if the landings continue or cease. It is an empirical fact: just turn on the television to find out how the mission will go. We will verify, hoping that everything will be all right, because this is the interest of our nation. [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-08-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-871.ana.u52	I declare the joint debate open. He is enlisted to speak Senator Divine. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-08-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-871.ana.u53	Mr President, we really believed that something was moving. It is not important, in the end, the subject that achieves the goal. For us, the important thing was the goal. To be the putative fathers or to be the promoters of the initiative does not matter, as we have seen during the examination of the bill on vitality, where we discussed who should take the credit. The legislation is of the Democratic Party but the 5 Star Movement takes credit for it, which says that only on our pressure has this bill been called into question. The League could say the same thing: only because of the great pressures made by the League finally put in place an action necessary to protect the interest of our country: maybe. I wish it were so because, if we look at the substance, there is instead only the appearance of the will to follow a line, which is not so much a line of the North League, but of the common feeling of the country, which asks for a little 'control over migratory flows. An answer is given which apparently goes in this direction. It is proposed to help Libyan naval forces combat illegal trafficking in illegal immigrants and trafficking in human beings. Who can say that is not agreeable? This eliminates two negative phenomena; even, one is a reprehensible crime and perhaps one of the most heinous. But is that really true? Actually, already with other missions we should have obtained results that protected this martyred country. Let us remember, for example, the Frontex Triton mission. Since we were putting ships on the field, we had to protect the European borders and, clearly, from the Mediterranean to Italy came the largest number of traffics that would then affect the whole of Europe. Senator Gasparri has just spoken, who rightly said that we protect the sea while everyone else says: if you are not able to protect it, you keep it, because if they are illegal they cannot move freely in Europe. But did the Triton mission stop illegal trafficking? Absolutely not. We have set up Operation Sofia, which does nothing but repeat what is being done now: we block human trafficking, we block the hullers and we also destroy the ships that serve for these traffics. Did it work? No. It worked exactly backwards. He proposes to go there to defeat a serious crime and instead, we have taken all these desperate fleeing and brought them to our home. What was the point of these missions? On objectives shared by all, the end result is exactly the opposite. We encouraged the departure of desperate people from Africa knowing that, traveling a few miles, these would then be recovered and safely taken to a quiet country where no one would bother them anymore. Today we repeat this game, this fiction: we collaborate with the Libyan Coast Guard and even enter their territorial waters to stop human trafficking. But if we enter their territorial waters to defeat this kind of migration, the first thing we should do, in case we can intercept them, would be to block them and repatriate them. Has this been foreseen? Absolutely not: everything is ambiguous. Even Minister Pinotti has been careful to say that this will not be a naval blockade. Yes, it is true, it cannot be a naval blockade because with two ships we make laugh: we want to defeat the phenomenon of illegal immigration, import and exploitation of human beings and we deploy two ships. Between the Strait of Messina, Tripoli and all the southern Mediterranean for what can two boats serve? Are we kidding? [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group]] Was it done to bring back the invariance of spending? Do we take the boats that are already there for other reasons and make them do something different? We asked the Commission: let us clarify these inconsistencies. As far as NGOs are concerned, will they continue to do what they are doing? That good official of the State, the prosecutor of the Republic of Catania, who raised a judicial problem, was so much criticized. He just said that not all NGOs work for humanitarian purposes. That is why Dr Zuccaro has been distracted by the newspapers and the debate in this House, and everything he has actually highlighted has actually happened. There are reports from the ground, NGOs enter territorial waters - which they could not do - and turn off radar transponders. The smugglers on the ground have their cell numbers and we don't know why they even know the NGO's phone numbers. Zuccaro said that all this doesn't come back: there's something that doesn't work and we, the bad guys, said that the business has become three. First, smugglers make themselves paid by these desperate, board them and make a small journey by sea. The second business starts with NGOs, who do not understand why they did not want to sign to make the sources of their funding transparent, and finally the third business is the reception. The Italian State spends 4.2 billion euros on reception, to manage migratory flows. If we want to make this pact with the Libyans and the objective is what is stated, the first thing we should write - and it has not been said or written - is that rejection must be done. Secondly, we must capture the hullists and effectively defeat the trafficking of human beings. We recognize that it is good to help this country which is still completely destabilised. Having an efficient and reliable interlocutor in Libya would certainly also be Italian interest. We are voting for resolutions that do nothing but approve a resolution of the Council of Ministers which comes from a letter of invitation from the Government of Tripoli, recognized by the international community, of which we have absolutely no knowledge. Would it have been so strange, since we are being asked for help for mutual interest, to defeat these crimes and the unmanageable traffic at the Italian and European level, to know the extremes of this letter? The letter was sealed. Parliament will have to be informed of the actual subject matter of the request in order to act. In the Commission, we have proposed that the sitting be kept secret for half an hour so that we can read what the Libyans are actually asking us to do in order to decide. We, the Commissioners, too, are institutional representatives and we have a duty of confidentiality with regard to a confidential and secret document. We also take note of this without giving any kind of publicity. Why could we not verify and read this document? That's not a good way to act. We ask that things be done seriously, because with two ships we are pretending to do what we say we want to do. With two ships in the Mediterranean nothing is done; they serve many more, perhaps even smaller, more efficient, faster. The immigrants we call irregular must be brought back to the place from which they left; that is, they must return to the Libyan ports. What happens if we intercept them inside or outside the Libyan waters? In this sense there is an incredible ambiguity in the resolutions, but also in the resolution of the Government: it is not said what must happen. Let's try to guess: it seems that if we intercept them in Libyan waters we can bring them back to the ground; but if these were a few hundred meters outside the Libyan waters we should - it seems, I repeat - bring them back to Italy. No, that's not how it works. Traffic is illegal. Immigration is illegal and the crime of trafficking in human beings is always the same - I conclude, President - both inside and outside Libyan waters. We have to write that we repatriate them and take them back to the place where they came from. I would like to make one final point. We could only act in Libyan waters, i.e. in the Libyan territories controlled by the Government of National Agreement. Our Navy is equipped with very efficient instruments: we set coordinates so that within those coordinates we can or should act, but we cannot say that we can act in waters controlled by the Government of Tripoli and not by other militias. There are 150 independent militias operating in Libya, as well as the two Governments of Tobruk and Tripoli. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Finish it, Senator. DIVINE (LN-Aut). We need to be a little more specific. We cannot send the military to waters where we do not know whether or not there is control of the current Libyan national government. There are too many factors that don't come back. We cannot vote on the resolutions before us. If the requests we have made on our agenda - which are the ones I have listed and which make these points clear - are approved, we shall have another vote on the resolution until the end. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-08-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-871.ana.u54	The problem is that resolutions are voted before agendas.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-08-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-871.ana.u55	Senator Repetti is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-08-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-871.ana.u56	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, there is finally a solution to the Libyan crisis and consequently a solution - at least in substance - to the migratory wave that Italy could not and can no longer support. The Libyan crisis - it is worth remembering - broke out after a sudden Franco-British intervention - unfortunately, even with our participation - that has thrown Libya into a situation of total anarchy, becoming, as we know, a channel of passage of migrants from Africa without any control. I believe that, beyond the political exploitations, which are in place and which I have heard even now, Minister Minniti must be recognized today first of all, as well as ministers Pinotti and Alfano and the entire Government, the merit of having contributed to determining a decisive turning point for this resolution. President Macron's initiative, with the weight of his political and military strength and influence in Libya, has also been important. That must be said. Therefore, with the decision of the Government Gentiloni Silveri I believe that a new phase is being opened today. With the green light to a deployment of Italian military forces in the waters within Libya, in collaboration with the Libyan Coast Guard (therefore they are not only two ships), one can think of fighting for the first time in a concrete way illegal immigration and the trafficking of migrants. It is clear, in fact, that in this way any boats of migrants will be taken back to the Libyan ports. In this context, the agreement with NGOs is also very important and the organisations that have not signed the agreement - and we do not understand the reason for this if not their bad acting - in my opinion must be rejected by our ports without if and without but. In conclusion, today, Parliament's vote marks a decisive step forward in resolving a problem that was entirely on the shoulders of Italy. Having said and taken this important step, I believe that the moral duty of cooperation with African countries remains to help people suffering from serious social and economic problems. This too can no longer be postponed. [[Applause from the Aut Group (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT) - PSI-MAIE) and from Senator Russo.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-08-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-871.ana.u57	Senator Petrocelli is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-08-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-871.ana.u58	Mr President, on 28 July the Presidency of the Senate was informed of the resolution of the Council of Ministers on the mission on which we must speak today, a mission of participation in support of the Libyan Coast Guard requested by the Presidential Council and the Government of Libyan National Agreement represented by Fayez-al-Serraj. All this a few days from today 2 August, to testify that, when a provision is useful and necessary, the time of examination by the Senate can be very close and on this - alive god - I absolutely agree, because this text had at its origin a necessity and an urgency that was respected in the timing. I say this only to reiterate once again, if it were necessary, that even on the vitals we could proceed urgently, as we asked yesterday; however, as we have seen, there are children and stepchildren and provisions and "provedimentas" and the vitalitys remained in the drawer until September. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] Mr President, do not tell me that I am going off the subject, because yesterday President Zanda did so abundantly. If we wanted to make a minimum of history about the origin of the text under discussion - and I would like to do so - we should do nothing but start from where it all began, that is, from the convocation by French President Macron, a few weeks ago, of the two main actors of the split Libyan panorama, that is, al-Serraj and General Haftar. The French President, as all the commentators and newspapers have written (it has been spoken about in Parliament and on televisions), has pulled two slaps to our Government, overcoming it very quickly and unequivocally on an issue on which both the previous Renzi Government and the current Gentiloni Government Silveri's been working for a long time. To these two slaps our government has responded in a very Christian way, turning the other cheek with the text of discussion. In that meeting, President Macron allowed two factions perpetually in struggle, which unfortunately do not represent the totality of the factions in struggle on the Libyan territory, to agree on a number of points, that is to say on supporting the process of national reconciliation, on promising and trying to maintain the ceasefire, on abstaining from recourse to the Armed Forces for all actions that do not concern the fight against terrorism, but above all on the construction in Libya of a sovereign, civil and democratic rule of law. Now, General Haftar, returning home after shaking hands with Al-Serraj and President Macron, has denied the substantial validity of this moment, saying that al-Serraj is absolutely no authority recognized by his faction. There would be very little objection to that. On the other hand, I would have much to object to this resolution of the Council of Ministers, which at this point seems to me a miserable, or rather miserable colored piece put to the initiative of President Macron, who, as a newly elected, has from his large part of the Government and the parliamentary force, has from his strength a governmental group that instead President Gentiloni Silveri, being unfortunately the puppet of Renzi, cannot have, has and will never have. Then what is the reason for the agreement with another puppet recognized by all international governments, as is indeed al-Serraj, which has no credibility and which is a puppet put there only to be able to continue to operate on the part of the factions really strong and important of the Tripoli area without encountering great obstacles? It is an agreement, I understand, supported by two puppet governments. Unfortunately, one of the two puppet governments is the Italian Government. And how can we then think that we can control and combat illegal immigration and trafficking in human beings, if we turn to a part that represents nothing and has neither military, nor political, nor popular representation, as the Al-Serraj Government actually is? How do we think we can go to Libya and allow it to be a mission that has all the security crisms for our military and, above all, for the objectives it sets itself on paper, that is, to combat trafficking in human beings? There is a huge difference, Mr President, between words and substance. The words are those contained in three sheets; so much the volume of paper of the resolution of the Council of Ministers adopted in haste and fury, on whose objectives we also agreed (and we said so in the Commission), but that it needed amendments, which we proposed and which were rejected. We talked about the code of conduct. That is what we were asking for. A code of conduct that does not formally provide for sanctions, because it is a code of conduct, is exactly the opposite of what we have been asking for for months, referring to a bill presented to the House, first signed by Bonafede, in which it is clearly said that we should close our ports to NGOs that do not respect the rules. If there is a law, you can have sanctions; if you rely on a code of conduct, sanctions go to be blessed. In the current situation, then, we will most likely be going into an issue in which today, with these rules, we do not agree to go there to impalate because there is a person considered at all levels - say colleagues here in this House - representative of the Libyan legitimate authority, al-Serraj, who would hardly have the ambition to control his own backyard. And controlling your own backyard is not necessarily a small thing, because if the President of the United States of America were to control his own backyard, he would control the entire South American continent. But the courtyard of al-Serraj's house does not even come out of the armored residence where he lives and leaves with armored cars, because even in Tripoli he can not have the guarantee of survival, since he is the absolute and undisputed, considered such also in this House, legitimate representative of the Libyan Government. A few weeks ago, French President Macron, who enjoys the consent of having just been elected and being an authoritative representative, wrote a theorem, putting around a table the two main actors of the Libyan theatre. This Government, the Government Gentiloni Silveri-Alfano-Pinotti, is preparing, indeed has already done so, to write a corollary of this theorem; but a corollary can only strengthen the theorem's theorem itself, and the theorem's thesis is that the French gave us four slaps. As much as we agreed to support an intervention, we believe that an intervention such as the one envisaged by the Government is yes urgent and necessary, but not with the rabid, approximate manners and the clumsy attitude that this Government has once again. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]] It is the same clumsy attitude of the ministers Alfano and Pinotti, then led by the President of the Council Renzi, who led us to give white paper (when they were given white paper), so much so that we reach agreements with Brussels to make all migrants land on our coasts. Unfortunately, we in the Commission have had to - and I say this with certainty - take a step back, saying that the measure was and is necessary; but we cannot give a delegation, still today, in white, without knowing the rules of engagement, without knowing well what the area in which our ships and our men will have to operate, without knowing whether or not there can be the possibility of blocking all traffickers of human beings on the Libyan territory. We cannot, then, give a blank proxy to these three pages. Most likely there could be another agreement in the Commission, we supported it until the last moment, Mr President. Once again, those who have closed our doors can only be responsible for the presentation of different resolutions and for the fact that we have not managed to reach an agreement, which saw us as the main protagonists on this issue, because we were among the first to believe that regulation in the sea must be done with a legal device and not only with the rules and conventions. My colleague, Mr Marton, will explain even more clearly the meaning of the vote that we shall be voting on. All I have to say is that yet another opportunity has been lost to have a procedure shared by all the Groups, to prove that our country has an international dignity that it wants to re-present. But if we continue to support those who are seen by the international community as characters with little representation, we can only do so with a Government that, for a long time now, in this country has as little representation, since since December the former President of the Council, after losing the referendum, should have gone home, while we still find him leading his second Government, the so-called Gentiloni Government. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-08-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-871.ana.u59	The joint debate is closed. I note that the texts of the resolutions of the Commissions meeting 3a and 4a have been presented with agendas from the G1 to the G9, the texts of which are distributed.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-08-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-871.ana.u60	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-08-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-871.ana.u61	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-08-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-871.ana.u62	MARTON (M5S). Mr President, the agendas are not yet being distributed. I would ask you if you could give us a minute to read them.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-08-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-871.ana.u63	I've already distributed them. I call the rapporteurs.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-08-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-871.ana.u64	Mr President, we do not respond to the joint debate. On the agenda, we do not express ourselves and return to the government.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-08-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-871.ana.u65	I call on the Government representative to speak on the resolutions already adopted by the Commission meeting 3a and 4a and on the agenda presented.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-08-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-871.ana.u66	Mr President, on the G1 agenda, at the first signing of Senator Centinario, the opinion is against it. On the agenda for Mr G2 by Senators Marton and Mr Santangelo, I am against. On the agenda G3, signed by Senators Santangelo and Marton, the opinion is opposed, also because our mission is of logistic assistance to the Libyan Coast Guard and, however, migrants intercepted in Libyan waters, to which we will give assistance, are to be welcomed in Libya. However, there is this passage in the resolution before us, and that is why the opinion is against it. On the agenda of the G4 meeting, which was also signed by Senators Santangelo and Marton, I am against this, partly because the invitation was addressed by the Libyan Government to the Italian Government and we cannot extend it to other European States. Invitation to withdraw the agenda G5, always signed by Senators Santangelo and Marton, because, in reality, the considerations on the continuation of the activity of cooperation and dialogue, in particular with the countries on the border, are contained in the premises of the resolution. On the G6 agenda, the opinion was opposed by Senators Santangelo and Marton, because it was an overall commitment, but I would not specify it here. On the G7 agenda, the opinion was opposed to the first signature of Senator De Cristofaro. Let us bear in mind that yesterday, before the Parliamentary Committee for the Security of the Republic (Copasir) the information on the letter sent to the Italian Government by the Libyan Government took place. On the agendas of G8 and G9, both at the first signature of Senator De Cristofaro, the opinion is against. On the two resolutions adopted yesterday in the Commission, the opinion is in favour.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-08-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-871.ana.u67	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-08-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-871.ana.u68	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-08-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-871.ana.u69	MARTON (M5S). Mr President, I shall withdraw the G5 agenda. Can you confirm that you have given an opinion against all the agendas?
ParlaMint-IT_2017-08-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-871.ana.u70	Yes, Senator Marton, it is. Before we proceed to the vote, I would remind you that the agendas will be put to the vote after the Commission's resolutions of 3rd and 4th.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-08-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-871.ana.u71	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-08-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-871.ana.u72	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-08-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-871.ana.u73	COMPAGNA (FL (Id-PL, PLI)). Mr President, the decision taken by the Council of Ministers on 28 July made us opposition parliamentarians, who had never done any preliminary opposition on international policy issues, a whole series of problems. From this point of view I am grateful to my colleague Paolo Romani, to my colleague Gasparri and to those who immediately took action to ensure that our political position was of high parliamentariansism, which means that we feel our homeland within ourselves when our soldiers are engaged outside the home. Speaking of high parliamentaryism, however, does not mean that other positions are not legitimate. Yesterday afternoon we listened, through the intervention of my colleague Corsini, to the doubts and hesitations of those who sometimes tend to superimpose a trade union or trade union logic of relations within the majority. This is not our style in the relationship between majority and opposition. Through the document that Senator Gasparri and Senator Paolo Romani have begun to illustrate since yesterday - Gasparri did so in the Chamber of Deputies, after the Ministers' communications, and Paolo Romani did it yesterday, all afternoon, in front of the Commissions gathered here in the Senate - we express our position, which calls for respect for the past. We did not always agree with the positions of the Government in Libya because we had a more multilateral vision, which the Government failed to assert, I do not think because it did not share it - indeed - but because the UN needed it. The UN has been a rather unwise element in the Libyan issue in the international community. We have learned with satisfaction that the Minister of Defence has been willing to explain that the decision of the Council of Ministers of 28 July is fully respectful of Libyan national sovereignty. 13:01 p.m. (Following comrade). However, beyond hypocrisies, talking about the sovereignty of the national state in Libya lends itself to the worst ironies. He is right and what divides us from the Franco-Libyan meeting last week is that the French cleverness to navigate between two opposing Libyan positions leaves enough time that it finds. Among other things, together with the Undersecretary Della Vedova we noted yesterday in the Commission, the "Corriere della sera" newspaper, which according to some would be almost an institution, yesterday attacked the nullity and isolation of Italy in foreign policy. If the willing collaborator of the evening Corriere was right or wrong, it is all the opposite to us. Our tradition is highly liberal: we were with Giolitti to avoid entry into the First World War, but once Italy went to war, as socialist Filippo Turati said in Parliament, our homeland is also on Grappa. We hope that doesn't happen. I'll make one final point. It was appropriate to include the reasons why we are in favour of the final document. I am referring to the ongoing monitoring of the relationship between the Government and Parliament. Friend Corsini asked for this yesterday in the Commission. Senator Gasparri had anticipated him in the hottest session of the joint and assembled Commissions of Chamber and Senate. Therefore, given the continuity of verification of the decision, our Group has no reason not to support the decision of the Council of Ministers and not to abdicate. That is why our agenda has its own compactness without controversial expressions, colleagues of the majority, towards you, but we cannot accept implicit or explicit expressions of controversy as to when Italy was governed by another President of the Council and France by other Presidents of the Republic no less than it seems, as Mr Petrocelli reminded us, the young President of the current Republic. Hence our vote in favour. [[Applause from the FL Group (Id-PL, PLI). Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-08-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-871.ana.u74	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-08-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-871.ana.u75	I remember that the time for explanations of vote is five minutes. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-08-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-871.ana.u76	[[Senator Santangelo's comments.]] DIVINE (LN-Aut). Mr President, then, in addition to being conned by these missions, we are also being mugged for five minutes to speak. However, it seems to me that we have made a good argument in question. I would like to say to colleagues like Senator Compagna or the Forza Italia Group, who have agreed to approve the resolution, that freedom of action is fine, but we are serious: we are perpetrating yet another hypocrisy in this House; we have continued to betray all the will expressed in this House. According to the paper, the League should say: "Finally we have achieved a great result", just as Brothers of Italy and Meloni did, who exchanged what little we bring home for a naval blockade. No it is not a block, also because with two ships you do not make a naval block: with two ships you go for walks to the Mediterranean. Nor is it done what they say they want to do, as it was not done with Triton, because they did not defend their borders, but we imported extra immigrants, loading them from NGO ships on our ships and taking them to Italian ports. The same was done with Sophia: we had to defeat the traffickers and we continued to import immigrants. I mean, the action you say you want to do is acceptable, but what you do is quite different. This measure continues to carry out a fundamental hypocrisy. Politically, I am stunned and I cannot understand how good faith can continue to be recognized when good faith is not there. We are talking about a document and we are deliberating without anyone in this House being able to read it, because it has been declared by the Government to be confidential and even secretive. We deliberate over a government's will to ask us for help, and we don't even know exactly what it's asking for. We send two ships, and that makes you smile a little. Why can't we vote for this measure, Mr. Undersecretary? If you had used some caution by saying that you are willing to clarify the provision by accepting one or two points of those requested by the League, we could also have thought that there is some good faith; they did not write the norm well and are willing to correct it, to integrate it and everything else. But you have rejected healthy plant all that you should or should do. At this point it's because you want to do exactly other things. We want it to be written that irregulars - I repeat, irregulars - cannot be continuously brought to Italy, whether they are recovered in or out of territorial waters. Is that so weird? Could it be written? Italians don't want illegal immigrants anymore. Those who are entitled, those who run away from wars or humanitarian crises, those who die of hunger or under bombs, no one drives them home; but we cannot accept 200,000 people who want to try to live better and embark in some way, so they know that with little gasoline in a few miles they will find someone near the territorial waters that will take them to a safe landing place. We cannot even send the military to control areas whose size or borders they do not know; they can enter territorial waters controlled by the Government of Libyan National Agreement. But if in those tens of thousands it was not the Government, but another local force, free, autonomous, independent; or if it were Haftar's forces that controlled that space, these would shoot. Haftar already sent you a message: "Do not enter armed Libyan waters." How are we going to defeat terrorists and traffickers with our hands in our pockets? The ships have signal rockets, but those are for the emergency, they don't scare anyone, they're like mortarets. There are too many inaccuracies and no clear purpose. We ask for clarity and you say no. We say that, even outside the territorial waters, even if it is not written, migrants must be repatriated. Then agree with the countries of departure, with the Libyans and make hotspots and reception centers: there will be who has the title to come to this country and will arrive those few, who today are 5 percent, of those who arrive and we will welcome them with open arms. However, we extend also to the whole country, and not only to that part controlled by the Government, the possibility of entering their respective territorial waters, otherwise we also send to the oblivion our poor and few military, because - I repeat - with two ships it is a bit an impudice: it is the fig leaf to say: "I want to do, but in fact we will do absolutely nothing". For these reasons and to make it clear that this is yet another mockery for Italians, the North League, although on paper it should say that we finally move in the right direction, examined the content of the resolutions, must say that it is all a great fiction. We cannot therefore vote in favour of this document when we examine it. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-08-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-871.ana.u77	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-08-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-871.ana.u78	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-08-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-871.ana.u79	AMORUSO (ALA-SCLP). Mr President, it seems that we are here for the country to know that Italy is fighting the phenomenon of illegal immigration and trafficking in human beings. And, as always in the italian traditions, the mountain gives birth to the mouse. It all began with trumpet rings and flags in the wind: the visit of Sarraj to Rome after the slap of Paris and a letter that became mysterious because it is secreted and only the members of the Copasir could read it. Groups that do not have representatives at Copasir cannot even know what we are discussing today. This mysterious letter has become a call for support for the fight against illegal immigration and trafficking in human beings. All this was done by talking about ships, planes and troops that were to be used on this mission. In the end today we vote on a mission that speaks of logistical and technical support, does not represent a ground intervention, because this would invade the competence and authority on the Libyan territory of the Libyan State, and we do not know what it is, only aimed at achieving objectives of support to the authorities of that country. It is found that it is not a naval block, but it is evident, since the great and powerful means are a logistic ship and a patroller, that among other things they are used by those who are in use for the operation "Safe Sea." So this is not an official mission, in the sense of an autonomous mission, but it is like a mission extrapolated from "Safe Sea," but since that is international, while this is national, we are obliged to say that Italy finally collaborates to block the illegal and wild immigration that takes place on our territories. All this succession of positions today give rise to an initiative that is weakened and a general and subtone intervention. Among other things, it is not even necessary to risk touching the susceptibility of the many factions that today operate on the Libyan territory. We venture without knowing what awaits us in an operation in which there will be yes boats against us, but also organizations armed with heavy weapons that are much more dangerous sometimes than those in possession of the same means of Libyan authority. This is an ondivago government that leaves and does not arrive, that it says but then does not, that first it engages hundreds of million and resources, signing protocols, like that which concerned Triton, with the exclusive use of the Italian ports, and then it wants that the Italian ports are not used; it takes measures because the ships of the NGOs do not come rightly in the Italian ports and today it says that it must be rejected. What, then, is the action of this Government and this Minister for Foreign Affairs who declared yesterday that we are working for the unity and stability of Libya and to avoid the fragmentation of the action of the international community? I would like to address the Minister for Foreign Affairs, who today, as can be seen in the newspapers from an interview with the Minister for the Interior, is also being held in his office. The Minister of the Interior, in fact, has already informed us that he will go to Libya soon to speak with all the representatives of the various political realities that operate on that territory. Well, here we are today having to discuss a mission that rightly, as Senator Compagna recalled, Ernesto Galli della Loggia indicated yesterday as a mission of many unknowns and already announced in the name of the usual minimalism of the wish but I cannot. Unfortunately, this is the story that repeats itself: I wish but I can not, we do but then we do not and meanwhile our soldiers leave. That is the sense of responsibility of our Group. We would be tempted not to vote for the measure today, but we cannot, we must not and we do not want our soldiers leaving for this adventure to feel with them the solidity of Parliament and, therefore, of the Italian people. [[Applause from the ALA-SCCLP Group and Senator Scilipoti Isgrò. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-08-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-871.ana.u80	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-08-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-871.ana.u81	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-08-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-871.ana.u82	Corsini (Art.1-MDP). Mr President, I will start with two premises. Firstly, I would like to announce the Group's vote in favour of Article 1 - a democratic and progressive movement to the measure under consideration, in the sense of assuming national responsibility, but also in continuity with a tradition in which I personally recognize myself. Secondly, I would like to make public an appreciation to my colleagues, Senators Sangalli and Vattuone, for their sensitivity and willingness to listen, to the dialogue they have shown by accepting suggestions, indications and requests in relation to issues that were and are fundamental to us, especially the clarification that the mission in which we are preparing does not intend to promote a military naval blockade of refusal. Moreover, a clarification regarding the role that is assigned to Italians present on the Libyan soil: a collaboration to make profitable the activity of the Libyan authorities, whose legitimacy we do not want to question. Again: the readiness to promote periodic verifications of the results of the mission. We believe that in order to present a thorough and convincing assessment we must refer to a more general framework, because there is no doubt that Libya is experiencing dramatic problems at sea, problems which are also ours and also Europeans. But Libya also faces dramatic problems on earth. In addition to the merchants of death and criminal traffickers of human beings, there are political contrasts, conflicting ambitions of power, struggles between tribes and divergent economic interests. It is, in short, a country torn apart and divided by the clash between factions, a real powder keg at risk of deflagration. If this representation has any basis we must note that unilateral initiatives are inadequate, insufficient and even bankrupt and that a change of pace is needed, the recovery of foreign policy protagonism in a multilateral dimension. This does not mean that we pass under silence, or we do not express a judgment regarding the initiatives of the Italian Government, which must avoid the penalization of isolation. There is no doubt that the initiatives undertaken by Minister Minniti - I am thinking of the establishment of contact groups, the appointments of Rome and Tunis, the promotion of action plan, capacity building interventions, the proposal to set up MRCC and regionalization of landings - define a prospect worthy of being pursued with determination and consistency. Again: I will not go over the points that Minister Alfano outlined yesterday, but I think I can recognize the search for a new approach, at least the attempt, that we hope will achieve valuable and profitable results, of a change of pace. However, in the context of a favourable vote, we want to point out some critical issues, to which, in the perspective, we assign the meaning and value of a reminder, of a warning. The first point concerns the need to define a clearer legal framework within the framework of a thorough recognition of the role of the UN, hence the activation of the mission in a clearer and more legally legitimate international framework. Again: the commitment to the convening of a European Council on the agenda of this mission, with specific reference to the role of the countries of the European Union. In addition to this, a prudent and prudent mobilization aimed at regrouping the divisions between the various Libyan political subjects, the guarantee of the establishment of reception centres that ensure full respect for human rights, the organisation of humanitarian corridors for asylum seekers and those who need international protection and, finally, periodic checks not generic, but with specific reference to internal developments on the ground, the rules of engagement, the protection of migrants, the involvement of local actors. In conclusion, the methodology that yesterday positively Senator Sangalli and Senator Vattuone pursued confirms the possibility that Article 1 continues to feel an integral and considerable part of this majority. This, however, will only be possible in the activation of mutual listening, active dialogue, in the identification of objectives that we can share together, in the pursuit of the general interest of the country. [[Applause from the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and ……]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-08-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-871.ana.u83	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-08-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-871.ana.u84	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-08-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-871.ana.u85	ZELLER (Aut (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT)-PSI-MAIE). Mr President, the Group for the Autonomies-PSI-MAIE supports and supports government action to combat illegal immigration more effectively. Those who dispute its objectives and choices should indicate what alternative there is to the policy adopted by the Government and what constitutes the problem of migratory flows as a European problem. This is a European problem in which Italy assumes its responsibilities, as we know. In other words, Italian responsibilities and European responsibilities are related to each other and if delays and problems are - as is clear - they have this common dimension. It is not sustainable for Europe to decline and not address the consequences of the choices it has made: the Dublin agreement, the rules of relief missions, the rules of refugee access and their reallocation. Italy is the frontier of Europe and the control of the external borders of Europe, neither in geopolitical terms, nor in terms of resources, can be delegated to those who like Italy are geographically more exposed because Country of first port. It is not conceivable that other European countries require the suspension of the Schengen rules in order to avoid tackling the emergency posed by migrants and it is not acceptable that Europe does not adopt firm lines towards countries, first of all Eastern Europe, which do not share criteria and responsibilities in the reallocation of refugees. With regard to the flow of migrants, the Italian mission approved by the Council of Ministers is certainly important for the activities of controlling and combating illegal immigration and trafficking in human beings. In this respect we fully agree with the objectives set out in the resolution adopted by the Government and in particular the need to support as soon as possible the establishment of protection and assistance centres in the Libyan territory for migrants rescued at sea managed by UNHCR and the IOM, also for the purpose of establishing the right of asylum and to develop operational programmes and cooperation projects in African territory in the areas of departure and passage of migratory flow, in order to reduce pressure on the Libyan coasts. It is clear that this is how we deal with the problem with policies and choices that prevent the difficult conditions of rescue activities at sea. At the same time, procedures and rules should be adopted to allow return operations for those who do not have the right to asylum. It is certainly important to continue the adoption of bilateral agreements with the African countries of greatest origin of migratory flows, including with a multiannual aid programme for them. We do not understand why the billions are there for Turkey, to close borders in other countries, while resources are scarce for African countries. At the same time, we are convinced that the government has done well to address in strict terms the need to adopt new, more binding rules for the work of NGOs. Those who do not approve the code adopted by the Italian Government place themselves outside an organized rescue system. System that is indispensable and what good the Government has done to set in these terms. The new rules must now be applied rigorously and firmly, especially with regard to NGOs which have not signed the agreement. For these reasons, the Group for the Autonomies-Maie-PSI will vote in favour of the joint resolution of the Commission on Foreign Affairs and Defence. [[Applause from the Aut Group (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT) - PSI-MAIE and Senator Scalia.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-08-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-871.ana.u86	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-08-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-871.ana.u87	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-08-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-871.ana.u88	CASINI (AP-CpE-NCD). Mr President, I will also be brief, necessarily, but not without pointing out that the communications of Minister Alfano and Minister Pinotti yesterday in the Commissions for Foreign Affairs and Defence and the statements made by the Minister for the Interior Minniti, who was audited last week, outline in my opinion a clear and clear picture of a government that is not going in the dark at all; it does not proceed at all with subtraction of competences between one another; it does not proceed at all with distraction, but proceeds according to a clear, clear and coherent strategy that unites the President of the Council and the three most significant Ministers in the field of security for our country. There is a design that starts from the collaboration with the mayors of the cities committed to countering the rackets of illegal immigration. There is a strategy in the presence of the Italian Armed Forces in support of the Libyan Coast Guard. They do not go there to carry out a blockade of the ports, which would be improper and not accepted by the Libyan authorities, but certainly do not go there to make beautiful statues, because they are strongly committed to counter illegal trafficking, in the presence of a Libyan Coast Guard that without our support is ineffective in this control. There is a foreign policy of the Government, that of the Minister Alfano, who works with the countries of sub-Saharan Africa to realize what Gentiloni today and Renzi yesterday defined with the migration compact, that is, with that "let us help them at home" that is by no means a reason for improper polemics, but it is an absolutely necessary tool to prevent this human wave coming and that we find ourselves, as we find today, in the conditions of not being able to make an acceptance that combines with human dignity and decorum for those who come on our national territory. We shall therefore vote in favour of it, as the House of Deputies did just now. And we are pleased that a responsible and government force such as Forza Italia, which is now in opposition, supports this initiative with its responsible vote. In fact, this means corresponding to the national interest. The national interest comes before our place in this House, whether by majority or opposition. Finally, I would also like to say that the controls that are being carried out in the port of Tripoli on NGOs' ships are also a strategy. We all appreciate NGOs when they save lives, but we do not understand why an NGO's ship should save lives by disabling transponders when it does rescue action and not accepting that there are Italian police officers on board. That means there's something that doesn't work. It is not acceptable, in fact (if there is nothing to hide), the refusal to an involvement of the Italian State on board the ship. This means, of course, that there is an unclear situation and the state must make clear what is not. Welcome, therefore, also the inspections that are being carried out in these hours in the port of Lampedusa. Someone mentions Macron and France. I appreciated what the Minister for Foreign Affairs said. Macron brings together Mr Haftar, whom we have always said we must involve in solving the Libyan problem, and the President of the Government supported by the UN and us. Do they step forward? We would be happy, but unfortunately our fear is that they have not seen that Haftar, when he returned to Libya, attacked Sarraj saying that he is a puppet. This means that Macron is also not a world champion and has failed to realize the miracle. I wish he had: we would have been with him if he had performed this miracle because it would have served us too. Unfortunately, we have always known that Libya is a reality made up of more than 30 tribes and the problem is not solved if they don't put everyone together, as our rulers are trying to do in silence. I should continue, but I see the archign face of the Vice President of the Senate calling me, as it is right that it is, to respect the times and then I conclude by saying one last thing: there is in the country the perception that the arrivals are unsustainable. In part they are: the municipalities and the prefects are doing extraordinary things and we must thank them for this. However, according to today's figures, arrivals are decreasing compared to last year. We must then try to understand what perception is and what reality is, and politics has the task of explaining that there are perceptions and realities. Finally, I would like you to remain on the record of the fact that President Latorre was in Egypt, said important things and put them on the table of political confrontation. Personally, I would like to say that these are not issues that can be dropped, because yours has been a strong political act and we must now find a way, both for the case of the Regens, both on the subject of immigration and on the fight against terrorism to recover the capacity for diplomatic dialogue with Egypt that is lacking today since we have neither the Egyptian ambassador nor the Italian one. [[Applause from the AP-CpE-NCD and PD Groups and Senator Buemi.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-08-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-871.ana.u89	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-08-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-871.ana.u90	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-08-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-871.ana.u91	De Cristofaro (Misto-SI-SEL). Mr President, I will speak briefly, but I would ask you to hand over the full text of my speech so that it can be annexed to the Minutes of today's sitting. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. The Presidency authorizes it to do so. De Cristofaro (Misto-SI-SEL). I would simply like to say that we regard the mission in Libya as a real turning point in our country's policy, a turning point in our view that is wrong and dangerous in the whole approach of Italy to the tragedy of immigration. I believe that things should be called by name and not hypocritically as I sometimes hear, because unlike what happened during the previous missions, and especially in Mare Nostrum well known, this time it is not true that we are going to save lives and to assist. This time we go to carry out security tasks, to give a massive impulse to the so-called outsourcing of the borders and to entrust to our ships a role of logistic and military support to the Libyan Coast Guard that however, as we know, almost never responds to the Government of Sarraj, but instead responds to local militias and often also the traffickers and does not offer any guarantee regarding the respect of human rights. We have repeatedly denounced, even in this House, the so-called detention centres in Libya, those in which migrants must be returned and where torture and degrading treatment are well known. In short, we believe that this mission is not a humanitarian mission, but is a police mission, in conflict with international conventions, such as that of Geneva, but also with Italian law. We think that it is precisely in this context that the adoption of the code of conduct for NGOs is explained: a choice - I would like to say here in the Senate - which we consider to be wretched, wrong completion, the cost of which, in our opinion - of course, we hope to be wrong - will be measured in human lives, but which unfortunately is consistent with the novelty of the turning of our foreign policy in relation to this issue. We fear that the only outcome will be to clear that arm of the sea from the uncomfortable testimonies, let us say so, as we seem to indicate already what happened this morning, with the detention of the ship of a German NGO. We think that this turning point, precisely, will have a very high cost and we also believe that it has to do with a story, with a narration that of course we do not believe must hide the problems, but that it is absolutely disproportionate, at least for how it was told in Italy with respect to the real data. It is certainly true that we are faced with an epochal phenomenon, that of immigration, with millions of people moving to flee from war, from famine, but it is also true that the numerical data with which we compare are very different from the story of the so-called invasion, as is told in particular by the right. And we are very sorry that the majority of the so-called center-left on this ground also suffered such a level of hegemony. We believe that there has been a failure of Europe and one of Italy, which is very serious, within this affair and we consider this mission to be deeply wrong because the direction of the march is wrong, which we hope will also be reversed and above all by withdrawing the code of conduct for NGOs and strengthening the search and rescue system when the code is dismantled. Mr President, I would like to take the opportunity to ask, if possible, to delete the second paragraph of the premises on the G8 agenda, at my first signature, by restricting the text to the first and third paragraphs and, of course, to the device. [[Applause from the Misso-SI-SEL Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-08-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-871.ana.u92	All right, senator, let's consider it a text 2.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-08-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-871.ana.u93	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-08-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-871.ana.u94	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-08-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-871.ana.u95	MARTON (M5S). Mr President, we must make a premise: the situation in Libya is certainly complex and complicated. We are also aware that any intervention you go to propose or do on Libyan soil can trigger a series of events that are not predictable. I will not dwell on the responsibilities of those who, even in this Parliament, have helped to create the chaos that exists now in Libya, in an attempt to chase France and its bombs dropped on Libyan soil and which still continues to follow Macron in a series of pitfalls that have neither head nor tail. This is not a game; national security is at stake here. We would have liked to have voted in favour, Minister. The other morning we held a joint meeting of the parliamentary groups of our Movement and I can assure you that the objectives you indicated in the document were and still are acceptable, one by one and I personally strongly support them. But then what happens? It happens that we hear his statements and the resolutions of the majority arrive. All that has been included in the premises and communications is actually a bluff. I would like to remind the House that no intervention is being voted on in Libya, but the PD's motion for a resolution with the commitments relating to this intervention, which at the moment are the following: the intervention is only aimed at achieving the objectives of support to the authorities of that country, noted that the mission cannot be considered a naval blockade; we are not doing anything, we are exclusively giving support to the Sarraj Government. When we talk about concrete support in the objectives of controlling and combating illegal immigration and trafficking in human beings, what exactly is being done with this commitment? What is Parliament saying? What are you putting up? We asked for the rules of engagement, not for a habit, but because we were worried, for a simple reason. I would like to make a hypothesis and perhaps then the rapporteur or who for him will give me an answer: where our patroller in support of the Libyan Navy and Coast Guard should witness an attack on the coastguard by some Libyan subject (ergo Haftar), how would we behave in that case? What would we do? Nowhere is it written what kind of behavior we would have. Would we defend Sarraj and attack the Haftar militias? Madam Minister, you know that the other day the Haftar militias "conquered" Sabrata, dismantled the Abashi clan and then placed the Libyan President in an increasingly smaller corner. Switching to the second target, I get a light bulb. We are talking about the protection and defence of the means of the Presidential Council/Government of national agreement that operate for the control/contrast of illegal immigration. It is said here that we are actually protecting exclusively Sarraj. Do we have any indication that the President is in danger? Do we fear that his physical safety is in danger? Here, there's nothing about migratory flows. After the operation that Macron did - and my colleague Petrocelli in his speech specified our position on the matter - we believe that we are in a situation of isolation: we are defending a person who has no power, even if it is the one recognized by the UN. In our view, as we have written in our proposal, it is necessary to get out of isolation, involve all international actors and put at the table as many Libyan partners as possible. As President Casini also said, only Haftar and only Sarraj, together, will not be able to bring peace to Libya. We are making chaos continue and we will not stop the migratory flow at all, because not a word has been written about what the government intends to do to stop it. We have tried to present commitments for the Government to undertake interlocations with Niger and with all the countries of the Gulf of Guinea, because migratory flows come from there and pass almost exclusively through Niger. We must go and deal with Niger, block that kind of support, and make sure that all migrants are removed from the clutches of traffickers and are secured, giving them a better chance of life. We don't have to do anything else. Our vote will therefore be strongly opposed.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-08-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-871.ana.u96	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-08-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-871.ana.u97	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-08-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-871.ana.u98	ROMANI Paolo (FI-PdL XVII). Mr President, we come to this vote with an assembly perhaps slightly distracted by these resolutions, which in my opinion are one of the most important and significant decisions and votes of this parliamentary term. The decision that we are taking today and the authorization that we are giving today to the Government engage our country in an activity and an initiative that have no precedent, because it is a unilateral initiative. The multilateralism of acceptance has failed and the multilateralism of contrast has failed. The Italian government has made sure that a letter from the Libyan premier recognized by the international authority al-Sarraj, with which invites us to collaborate with the Libyan coastguard in patrolling in Libyan territorial waters, allows us - says the Minister of Foreign Affairs in a letter that he sent to the Italian Government - to be also in the port of Tripoli and therefore allows our country to finally do what we have always asked. At this point in the debate, Mr President, I want to claim the role that our party has played. We asked and requested in the Committees on Foreign Affairs and Defence that there be a deepening of the possibility of the use of that multilateralism provided for by Operation Sophia EUNAVFOR MED, in that famous passage to phase 2b and phase 3, which however needed not only the letter of the country that "submits" the Italian initiative, but also the resolution of the Security Council, which never intervened. The international isolation to which Mr Marton referred earlier unfortunately exists in part. We have been present in the Security Council since the beginning of this year and our presence will be exhausted at the end of this year, because of that agreement with the Netherlands for which we will be replaced and there is no trace of diplomatic initiatives there for us to talk about this issue there. So finally the Italian Government recognizes the need for a national initiative that allows our country to solve the problem. But to this slightly distracted Assembly I would like to read a second passage, fundamental in the definition of the leading role that our country has in this initiative. This is the first point of those commitments which, I repeat, thanks to Forza Italia, have been written both in our resolution, which I hope will be approved here, and above all in the only resolution of the House; our points have been fully transposed into the Camera's device. Well, at the first point there is written (and perhaps not all have read it carefully) that the Government is committed to acting diplomatically in the appropriate international fora and in the framework of bilateral relations so that no unilateral uncoordinated initiative can undermine the effectiveness of the mission. I don't know if you realize what it says: it's a very important thing. It makes me smile that yesterday Minister Alfano judged a small step forward - as he says - the Economist (Blessed him) - the meeting in Paris. The meeting in Paris was a diplomatic disaster in our country, so much so that this authorized Haftar, a few days later, to say that al-Sarraj is worth nothing, that it is locked up in the port of Tripoli and that it controls nothing (after having participated, a few hours before, in the photo opportunity with President Macron). But this commitment, contained in the device of our resolution and in the one of the Chamber, says one important thing: attention, failed the multilateralism of the reception and of the contrast, it is not possible that there can be unilateral initiatives of other countries that can create problems to our national initiative. This is a fundamental point. We assume the task of combating the immigration that comes from the Libyan coasts, we assume an important international responsibility, we take it in front of our country and our citizens, but also towards the Libyan Government, Libyan governments, Libyan militias. We don't know what's going on. We shall vote in favour, Mr President, of the two resolutions, both ours and that of the Government, because we believe that it is correct and fair, to the point where we have arrived, to authorize the Government to activate these initiatives. Our units in the Libyan waters are essentially a presence of deterrent; the profile along the horizon line will not only be that of NGOs - and then arrive there - but will also and above all that of the Libyan Coast Guard and our ships. Perhaps it will no longer be so easy for those boats, which are no longer boats but canoes, think, imagine to leave and be immediately saved. A quick ride on NGOs. I am not convinced by the mechanism that has been accepted by the majority in government with regard to NGOs. I am much more convinced by the Viminale's statement, which says - I want to say so that it remains in the proceedings - that having refused the acceptance and signature of the code of conduct places those non-governmental organizations outside the organized system for the rescue at sea - says the Viminale, not Forza Italia. [[Applause from the FI-PdL XVII Group) -]] With all the consequences of the specific case that can be determined from the safety of the boats themselves. It's a hard, dry, finally definitive statement. And, by chance, MOAS didn't do any trouble, he immediately signed the code of conduct; perhaps MOAS has other purposes in rescuing economic migrants from Africa. One last line. In yesterday's confusion, the House said that by the first decade of September the Government will report to the Chambers; in yesterday's confusion, the Senate accepted that by October 15 the Government would report. I make it simple and I say it to the government: one month after the beginning of the operations you come to Parliament and tell us what happened; it seems to me the simplest. I hope that the first possible will happen, and I hope that after today's vote, which is demanding, significant, important, fundamental, which has no precedent, the Government will finally have the courage and the international breath to take this mission all the way home. [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-08-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-871.ana.u99	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-08-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-871.ana.u100	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-08-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-871.ana.u101	Sangalli (PD). Mr President, as many speakers have pointed out, the debate we are having today is fundamental, important, of international politics and of national politics for our country. It is Parliament's role, it is politics, it is what we must do. I am glad that we have given space today to a topic as important to us as that of Libya and I must tell the truth: I find that these issues must always have priority, because they concern the national interest of our country and this is politics. This policy is worth more than the timing of the talk about vitality. This is politics and it is our country that is playing in this policy. I want to start with a figure, which someone mentioned. "Il Sole 24 Ore" today says that in July the number of landings compared to the month of July last year is halved; it does not mean that it has dropped on an annual basis, because we are still more than one percent more than last year, but, as everyone knows, July is particularly favorable, for the conditions of the sea and climate. Well, there is a half-life: it means that the actions that have been carried out in time are beginning to bear the fruits that were hoped for. I would like to underline this, because these actions do not begin with the provision at our examination; indeed, Italy had and has a strategy regarding the issue of migratory flows and is a strategy of involvement of countries bordering Libya, knowing that Libya is a vital interest for us: it is a joint country and it is vital because it is the country closest to our coasts, bordering Italy. But it is also the place where the flows of migrants from countries such as Niger, Chad, Sudan come, countries with which in these days our Government has undertaken a sequence of actions not only diplomatic, but also of economic support and support to their local authorities, civil, military, even with a certain effort, because it is not always dealing with countries where leadership is clear and it is not always a matter of leadership whose spirit and style of command we share. Yet it must be done, because we need to put Libya in a state of balance and national unity. We are convinced that Libya must be addressed as a high issue, because for us its unity and stability are fundamental. In fact, Libya's unity and stability coincide with our national interest. That must be clear to everyone. We cannot create barriers, because they would collapse if before the departure there were no authorities that, in agreement with us, control the flows and if in the countries from which migrants leave they do not make policies so that they can stay there. There is no barrier or hiding place that holds in front of people who are willing to risk crossing the sea with their children and who are willing to die at sea, because their living conditions are such, that it is better to die than to live a life like this. There are no barriers that hold, we need policies. We are doing politics and I am proud that Parliament is doing migration policy, international and political policy towards other countries. [[Applause from the PD Group and Senator Casini]] They are also among those who think that all those who make politics and all the countries that move in this context to reunite Libya do well to do their part. We know that Libya is not only made up of Haftar and al-Serraj, but it is made up of many tribes: President Prodi knew all the Libyan tribes and it would be useful for us to recover the quality of all those skills and information. [[Applause from the PD Group and Art. 1-MDP]] It would be useful for us to know who we are going to deal with and with what credibility we are dealing with. I think everyone is right to do their part and that France has also done well to call Al-Serraj and Haftar. It is certain that the strongest legitimacy of that act, on the part of France, was towards Haftar and it was an act that, in some way, weakens al-Serraj, which is the only person recognized by the United Nations: it is not that we chose it out of sympathy or because it has beautiful eyes; it is that we must refer to the United Nations, which recognize that form of government, that Government still unfinished, as the only representative of Libya and therefore of that we speak. Do we protect al-Serraj? Maybe. What we would like to protect, in fact, is the Libyan Coast Guard, with which we are engaged not from tomorrow morning, with the ships that we will send, but for months, in the formation of the Libyan Coast Guard. And that in July there were minor migratory flows is due to the fact that the Libyan Coast Guard is intervening with a professionalism that it did not have before and that we helped build, also providing them with means and facilities. Parliament - alive god! - it must be political and must not be destroyed in the eyes of the public, not by making politics. [[Applause from the PD Group]] And politics is above all international politics, in the interests of our country. We shall therefore vote in favour of the two resolutions tabled. [[Applause from the PD Group and Senator Casini. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-08-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-871.ana.u102	Before we proceed to the vote, I would remind you that the agendas will be put to the vote after the Commission's resolutions of 3rd and 4th. SANTANGELO (M5S). We call for simultaneous ballots to be carried out by electronic means. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of document XXIV, No 78. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of document XXIV, No 80. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the vote on the agenda. I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of the agenda G1, presented by Senator Centinario and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the nominal vote by simultaneous ballot of the agenda G2, presented by Senators Marton and Santangelo. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of the agenda G3, presented by Senators Santangelo and Marton. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of the agenda G4, presented by Senators Santangelo and Marton. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). The G5 agenda has been withdrawn. I refer to the nominal vote by simultaneous ballot of the agenda G6, presented by Senators Marton and Santangelo. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of the agenda G7, presented by Senator De Cristofaro and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the nominal vote by simultaneous ballot of the agenda G8 (text 2), presented by Senator De Cristofaro and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). The G9 agenda is foreclosed by the adoption of the resolutions.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-08-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-871.ana.u103	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-08-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-871.ana.u104	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-08-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-871.ana.u105	DE PETRIS (Misto-SI-SEL). Mr President, during the first two votes the card was not well inserted. Both votes were against. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. The Presidency takes note of this.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-08-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-871.ana.u106	The next item is the joint debate on draft law 2834 and document LXXXVII, No 5. I would like to inform you that, given the day, typewritten and transmitted by other means of information will be welcome. The rapporteur on draft law No 2834, Senator Martini, asked for permission to carry out the oral report. No comments were received, the request was accepted. I therefore call the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-08-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-871.ana.u107	Mr President, I certainly feel that I welcome your invitation, and I shall confine myself to taking into account, with regard to the European delegation law for 2016, only the major changes introduced by the debate in the Commission, by saying that the draft law consists of 15 articles and a single annex containing the directives to be implemented through the adoption of legislative decrees. I would ask you to hand over the full text of my speech so that it can be annexed to the Minutes of today's sitting.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-08-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-871.ana.u108	The Presidency authorizes it to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-08-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-871.ana.u109	Martini, rapporteur on draft law No 2834. Overall, the measure delegates the Government to the implementation of 30 directives, as well as to adapt national legislation to eight European regulations. The main changes concern, first of all, the temporal definition of the law because, unlike the previous draft delegation law for 2015, the Government wanted to provide Parliament not only the 2015 data but also those of the whole 2016, adding some updates until 15 February 2017. For this reason, the 14th Commission approved an amendment to the title of the draft law, adding the reference to the year 2017, thus allowing the annual draft law and its accompanying report to be brought back into line with the actual reference year. The second question concerns Article 3, which delegates the Government to implement the Union Directive on the approximation of the laws of the Member States relating to trade marks and the EU Regulation on the Community trade mark, and lays down specific principles and criteria for delegation. The two European measures to be implemented are the so-called trade mark package, aimed at greater harmonisation between Member States' laws, in order to overcome the disparities between trade mark holders in different countries. Another important element is Article 5, which contains specific principles and criteria of delegation relating to the implementation of the EU directive on the distribution of insurance products. In particular, a number of criteria are identified for the coordination of this legislation with that of the banking, credit and financial sectors. With regard to the competences of the different supervisory authorities, with an amendment accepted in the Commission, presented in the same version by almost all the parliamentary groups, it is established that the competence for the supervision of insurance products with financial content (branch I, III, V and multiramo) is assigned to VATS, when they are distributed not only by insurance agents and brokers, but also by insurance companies, while the competence is maintained to CONSOB when these products are distributed by banks and SIMs. Article 8 delegates the Government to adapt the national legislation to the European Union regulation on market abuse, laying down principles and guiding criteria with reference mainly to the role of the competent authority CONSOB in the application of the regulation and in the exercise of the supervisory, investigation and sanctioning powers. The aim of the legislation is to ensure an appropriate level of investor protection, protection of financial stability, integrity of financial markets, in cooperation with ESMA. On this article, too, the Commission accepted an amendment presented in a form identified by almost all the parliamentary groups in order to ensure greater investor protection, giving CONSOB the power to establish information obligations for the assessment of financial instruments. Article 10 delegates the Government to the implementation of the European Union Regulation on the transparency of securities financing operations and the re-use of financial instruments. With a politically across-the-board amendment accepted by the Commission, the delegation referred to in Article 10 has been extended to allow the Government to make appropriate changes to the post-trading framework, which has been made necessary as a result of the change in the European regulatory framework. Finally, Mr President, Article 13 delegated the Government to the implementation of the EU directive as regards the reduction and use of lightweight plastic bags. However, on 26 July last, the Senate approved at first reading the draft law No 2860 for the conversion of the so-called Mezzogiorno Decree, which fully implements the European Union Directive and which, consequently, should be able to resolve the above-mentioned infringement procedure. The new article 9-a, in fact, regulates identical provisions to those contained in the draft legislative decree, whose delegation expired, and is also identical to Article 11-a, introduced in the draft European law 2017 and which was then deleted during the examination in the Assembly to the Chamber precisely because it had been decided to use the decree on the Mezzogiorno. Among other things, the standard has been approved in the House today and is therefore completely effective. It is therefore necessary to delete Article 13 of the draft law in so far as it contains a delegation which is no longer necessary. To this end, and in coordination with the Government, I have tabled a deleterious amendment to Article 13. Mr President, these are the main innovations introduced by the debate of the 14th Commission. I simply conclude by saying that, with the approval of this law of European delegation, we take another important step in the adaptation of our legislation, in the reduction of litigation and also in the drastic lowering of infringement procedures against our country, which I believe is a certificate of the credibility of Italy and also of good quality of our legislation. [[Applause from the PD Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-08-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-871.ana.u110	He asked to speak in order to supplement the written report by Senator Romano, rapporteur on document LXXXVII, No 5. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-08-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-871.ana.u111	Mr President, in asking for permission to attach the full text of my report to the Minutes of today's sitting, I would only ask for a few minutes to give a summary of my speech.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-08-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-871.ana.u112	The Presidency shall authorise it accordingly.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-08-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-871.ana.u113	ROMANO, rapporteur on document LXXXVII, No 5. The summary report on Italy's participation in the European Union for 2016, as we know, was presented to Parliament on 5 April this year and consists of four parts. The first part is about the development of the European integration process and the new institutional framework of the European Union. In view of the progressive strengthening of the democratic legitimacy of the institutions, the Italian Government has expressed itself in favour of the destination (this is a particular aspect that I put to the attention of the Assembly) of the 73 seats of the United Kingdom in the European Parliament in order to create a European constituency with transnational lists. Moreover, the Government has promoted the idea that the process of integration and convergence of European economies cannot be limited (also a particular aspect) to the more purely economic-monetary aspects, but must also address the pillar of social rights. Part Two deals with principles of horizontal and sectoral policy and, in particular, with foreign policy, common security, common security and defence policy and the stabilisation of democratisation. Particular attention is paid to some Mediterranean countries, the Horn of Africa and the Sahel. In the third part, the implementation of policies of economic, social and territorial cohesion is taking place and, in the context of the European debate on the future of cohesion policy, Italy has supported the need to simplify and make the rules clearer and more understandable, to streamline controls and move from a system based on the verification of formal compliance with the rules to a system based on the effective achievement of the expected results. Particular attention is paid to the national coordination of European policies and here it is appreciated the commitment of the Government to give account, in the corresponding parts of the report, of the 103 acts of direction issued by the Parliament: 73 by the Senate and 30 by the Chamber of Deputies. Finally, I would like to draw the attention of this House to a point which I think is of particular importance and which relates to infringements. Over three and a half years of work, there has been a saving of more than EUR 2 billion in infringement procedures, the fight against fraud and state aid that have been recovered. This has been done with the culture of prevention and programming. Today, as infringement procedures, Italy has achieved more than flattering results: we have only 65 compared to the 120 infringements of 2014, with a saving of more than EUR 1, 3 billion. To these savings must be added the 770 million recovered on the state aid side, while thanks to the work of the Finance Guard another 220 million have arrived on the anti-fraud side. At the end of my brief summary of the report which I put to the attention of my fellow Members, in the full text which I requested to be able to attach to the documents, I would like to thank my colleagues for their work in the 14th session. Commission and President Chiti for the wise Presidency of the Commission. I thank them for a debate that has always been maintained, even in the dialectically and politically divergent positions, along a track of great collaboration and harmony, as well as of collaboration and harmony with the Government, here represented by the Undersecretary Gozi whom I greet. It has given rise to active and non-formal cooperation, which seems to me - but I am referring to the analysis, evaluation and vote of this House - to be positive. [[Applause from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-08-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-871.ana.u114	I declare the joint general discussion open. The Presidency informs us that the motions for resolutions to document LXXXVII, No 5, may be tabled before the conclusion of the general debate. Senator Fattori is registered to speak. In view of his absence, he is intended to have given up his intervention. Senator Gaetti is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-08-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-871.ana.u115	Mr President, I give up my speech.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-08-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-871.ana.u116	Senator De Pin is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-08-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-871.ana.u117	Mr President, I accept your advice and ask for permission to hand over the written text of the speech so that it can be annexed to the Minutes of the sitting.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-08-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-871.ana.u118	The Presidency shall authorise it accordingly. Senator Orellana is registered to speak. In view of his absence, he is intended to have given up his intervention. She is registered to speak Senator Montevecchi. Because of his absence, he's supposed to have given up. Senator Amidei is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-08-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-871.ana.u119	Mr President, in order to speed up the procedure, I would ask for permission to hand over the written text of the speech so that it can be annexed to the Minutes of the sitting.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-08-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-871.ana.u120	The Presidency shall authorise it accordingly. The joint general debate is closed. [[Senator Candiani points out that he wants to intervene.]] Senator Candiani, what do you want to intervene for? He's not registered. CANDIANI (LN-Aut). Yes, of course I am in general discussion. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. No, I'm sorry. The speakers and the representative of the Government do not intend to intervene in the reply. I inform you that the Presidency has received motion for a resolution No 1, on which I invite the representative of the Government to speak.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-08-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-871.ana.u121	The opinion was in favour.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-08-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-871.ana.u122	I note that the opinions of the 5th standing Commission on the draft law under consideration and the amendments, which will be published in the annex to today's report, have been received and are distributed. We shall proceed to the examination of Article 1. Senator Candiani, would you like to intervene?
ParlaMint-IT_2017-08-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-871.ana.u123	Mr President, at this point I give up, because I had prepared the speech and I was registered to speak in general debate. Of course, I cannot explain amendments which have not been tabled to Article 1.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-08-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-871.ana.u124	It was a fault of the Group's offices, which did not communicate its request for intervention in general discussion. I put to the vote Rule 1. It's approved. I put to the vote Rule 2. It's approved. We shall now proceed to the examination of Article 3, on which amendments have been tabled which are intended to be presented and on which I invite the rapporteur and the representative of the Government to give their views.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-08-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-871.ana.u125	Two amendments have been tabled on Article 3 - Amendments 3.2 and 3.3 - which we have already discussed in the Commission. I am against both of them with the following explanatory statement. A different wording from the literal content of Article 29 of the said Directive would also lend itself to interpretative uncertainties when issuing the delegated act. Therefore, these amending proposals are not consistent with the European and internal regulatory arrangements, which place collective marks in a different and different procedure than those for the protection of origin and traceability. With these same arguments we have dealt with and discussed the two amendments in the Commission and have rejected them.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-08-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-871.ana.u126	The opinion was in accordance with the rapporteur's opinion, with the same reasons.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-08-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-871.ana.u127	Amendment 3.1 has been withdrawn. We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 3.2. GAETTI (M5S). We call for the vote to be taken by simultaneous ballot by electronic means. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is not supported.) I put to the vote Amendment 3.2, tabled by Senator Candiani and other senators. It's not approved. I put to the vote Amendment 3.3, tabled by Senator Candiani and other senators. It's not approved. I put to the vote Rule 3. It's approved. We shall now proceed to the examination of Article 4, on which an amendment and an agenda have been tabled which are intended to be presented and on which I invite the rapporteur and the representative of the Government to give their views.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-08-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-871.ana.u128	Mr President, the opinion on amendment 4,200 is against it, while on the G4200 agenda the favourable opinion is subject to two rewordings. The agenda calls for the promotion of an Italian city in the relevant European offices, but since this activity is already in place, we propose that the agenda commits the Government to continue in the work of identifying and promoting in the competent European offices of an Italian city. Finally, we would like to add, at the end of the period, a formula that is required of us by the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Finance: "in compliance with budgetary balances".
ParlaMint-IT_2017-08-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-871.ana.u129	The opinion of the Government is in line with that of the rapporteur also with regard to rewordings.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-08-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-871.ana.u130	Senator Candiani, do you accept the proposals for reformulation?
ParlaMint-IT_2017-08-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-871.ana.u131	Mr President, in principle I welcome the proposals for reformulation, but I would ask the Government and the rapporteur to take account of what was on the agenda, namely that there should be consideration of the territory in which the greater the concentration of registered patents is. I would like one of the locations to be located in my town, but being a small town in the province of 18,000 inhabitants would be unreasonable compared to placing it in a large city where patents are registered in large numbers. I insist on voting on the agenda.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-08-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-871.ana.u132	I put to the vote Amendment 4,200, tabled by Senator Candiani and other senators. It's not approved. I put to the vote the agenda G4200 (text 2), presented by Senator Candiani and other senators. It's approved. I put to the vote Rule 4. It's approved. We shall now proceed to the examination of Article 5, on which amendments have been tabled which are intended to be presented and on which I invite the rapporteur and the representative of the Government to give their views.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-08-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-871.ana.u133	Mr President, I am against Amendments 5,201, 5,150, 5,151, 5,153, 5,153, 5,54, 5,206, 5,207, 5,108, 5,155, 5,156, 5,157, 5,159, 5,160 and 5,161. I would ask the presenter of Amendment 5,205 to turn it into an agenda and I am in favour of Amendments 5,202 to 5,204.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-08-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-871.ana.u134	The Government gives its assent to the rapporteur's opinion.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-08-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-871.ana.u135	Amendment 5,200 has been withdrawn. We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 5,201. SANTANGELO (M5S). We call for simultaneous ballots to be carried out by electronic means. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Amendment 5,201 tabled by Senators Floris and Amidei. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I would like to refer to the nominal vote by simultaneous ballot of Amendment 5,202, tabled by Senator Fissore, which is essentially identical to Amendments 5,203, tabled by Senator Marino Luigi, and 5,204, tabled by Senators Floris and Amidei. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 5,150, tabled by Senator Mauro Giovanni. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Amendment 5.51 tabled by Senator Matteoli. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Having been accepted by the Government, the agenda for G5,205, resulting from the transformation of amendment 5,205, will not be put to the vote. I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Amendment 5.152, tabled by Senator Mauro Giovanni. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 5,153 tabled by Senator Bottici and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 5.154, tabled by Senator Mauro Giovanni. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 5206, tabled by Senator Marino Luigi, identical to amendments 5,207, tabled by Senators Floris and Amidei, and 5,308, tabled by Senator Mauro Giovanni. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 5,155, tabled by Senator Mauro Giovanni. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 5.156, tabled by Senator Mauro Giovanni. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 5.157, tabled by Senator Mauro Giovanni. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of the first part of amendment 5.158, tabled by Senator Bottici and other senators, up to the word "constitute." (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). The remaining part and amendment 5.159 are therefore not included. I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Amendment 5.60 tabled by Senator Bottici and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Amendment 5,161 tabled by Senator Bottici and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by a simultaneous vote on Article 5 in the amended text. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). We move on to Article 6, on which an amendment and agendas have been tabled which are intended to be presented and on which I invite the rapporteur and the representative of the Government to give their views.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-08-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-871.ana.u136	Mr President, Amendment 6,150 and the G6,200 agenda are linked, so that I propose that the presenter withdraw amendment 6,150 so that we concentrate on the agenda, which we can accept with a simple change. In the provisional part, instead of the words: "to provide for the involvement of the Minister of Health in the adoption procedure" it is proposed to write: "to provide for the appropriate arrangements for consultation of the Minister of Health in the adoption procedure." In this way the amendment could be withdrawn. The opinion on the G6201 agenda is in favour of this rewording of the initial part of the scheme: it commits the Government to assess the conditions for ensuring a high level of third-party................................................................................................................................................................................................... Therefore, the indication of the conditions is confirmed. In addition, as the MEF has requested, it is also called upon to include, in the end, the words 'in compliance with budgetary balances'.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-08-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-871.ana.u137	Mr President, I agree with the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-08-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-871.ana.u138	I would ask Senator Granaiola, first signatory to amendment 6,150, if she accepts the call for withdrawal and the proposals for redrafting of the agendas for the G6,200 and G6,201, of which she is first signatory. Granaiola (Art.1-MDP). Yes, Mr. President. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Amendment 6,150 has been withdrawn. Having been accepted by the Government, the agendas of the G6,200 (text 2) and G6,201 (text 2) will not be put to the vote. We shall now proceed to the vote on Rule 6. SCIBONA (M5S). We call for the vote to be taken by simultaneous ballot by electronic means. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Rule 6. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the examination of Rule 7, on which amendments have been tabled and an agenda to be presented and on which I invite the rapporteur and the representative of the Government to give their views.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-08-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-871.ana.u139	Mr President, I am against Amendments 7,150 and 7,151. On the other hand, I am in favour of the G7200 agenda.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-08-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-871.ana.u140	Mr President, I agree with the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-08-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-871.ana.u141	We shall now proceed to the vote on the first part of Amendment 7.50. SCIBONA (M5S). We call for simultaneous ballots to be carried out by electronic means. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I would like to point out the nominal vote by simultaneous ballot of the first part of amendment 7,150, tabled by Senator Piccoli and other senators, up to the words "for the purpose of "I'm sorry." (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). The remaining part and amendment 7.151 are therefore not included. Senator Piccoli, the agenda G7,200 was received by the government. Does he still insist on the vote? SMALL (FI-PdL XVII). Yes, ma'am. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of the agenda G7200, presented by Senator Piccoli and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Rule 7. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the examination of Article 8, on which an amendment has been tabled which is intended to be presented and on which I invite the rapporteur and the representative of the Government to speak.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-08-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-871.ana.u142	Mr President, I am against Amendment 8,150.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-08-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-871.ana.u143	Mr President, I agree with the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-08-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-871.ana.u144	We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 8,150. SCIBONA (M5S). We call for simultaneous ballots to be carried out by electronic means. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 8,150, tabled by Senator Bottici and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Rule 8. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the examination of Article 9, on which an amendment has been tabled which is intended to be presented and on which I invite the rapporteur and the representative of the Government to speak.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-08-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-871.ana.u145	Mr President, I am against Amendment 9150.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-08-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-871.ana.u146	Mr President, I agree with the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-08-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-871.ana.u147	We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 9150. SCIBONA (M5S). We call for simultaneous ballots to be carried out by electronic means. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request for simultaneous voting by electronic procedure is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 9,150, tabled by Senator Bottici and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I would like to refer to the vote by a simultaneous vote on Rule 9. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the vote on Rule 10. SCIBONA (M5S). We call for the vote to be taken by simultaneous ballot by electronic means. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request for simultaneous voting by electronic procedure is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Rule 10. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the vote on Rule 11. SCIBONA (M5S). We call for the vote to be taken by simultaneous ballot by electronic means. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request for simultaneous voting by electronic procedure is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Rule 11. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the vote on Rule 12. SCIBONA (M5S). We call for the vote to be taken by simultaneous ballot by electronic means. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request for simultaneous voting by electronic procedure is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Rule 12. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). Since no other amendments were tabled on Article 13 other than the deleterious amendment 13,100 tabled by the rapporteur, we shall proceed to the vote on the retention of the Rule. SCIBONA (M5S). We call for the vote to be taken by simultaneous ballot by electronic means. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request for simultaneous voting by electronic procedure is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I refer to the nominal vote by simultaneous ballot of the maintenance of Rule 13. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). The agenda for the G13,150 is therefore not included. Amendments 14,200 and 14,201 have been withdrawn. We shall now proceed to the vote on Rule 14. SCIBONA (M5S). We call for the vote to be taken by simultaneous ballot by electronic means. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Rule 14. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). I call on the rapporteur and the representative of the Government to comment on Amendment 14.0.200.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-08-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-871.ana.u148	Mr President, I am in favour.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-08-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-871.ana.u149	Mr President, I agree with the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-08-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-871.ana.u150	I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of Amendment No 14.0.200, tabled by Senator Orellana. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the examination of Rule 15, on which an amendment has been tabled which is intended to be presented and on which I invite the rapporteur and the representative of the Government to give its opinion.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-08-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-871.ana.u151	Mr President, I am in favour.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-08-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-871.ana.u152	Mr President, I agree with the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-08-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-871.ana.u153	We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment No 15.200. SCIBONA (M5S). We call for simultaneous ballots to be carried out by electronic means. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of Amendment 15,200, tabled by Senator Cociancich. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous vote on Rule 15 in the amended text. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B).
ParlaMint-IT_2017-08-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-871.ana.u154	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-08-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-871.ana.u155	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-08-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-871.ana.u156	FUCKSIA (FL (Id-PL, PLI)). Mr President, we have been voting on the fifth European delegation law today since we started the double track under the Moavero law and the European delegation. A law that should serve us to fill the infringement procedures, so often used also in the press. In reality, today, the number of procedures charged to our country - data updated to 13 July - stands at 65, of which 54 for violation of EU law and 11 for failure to transpose directives, largely related to environmental issues. The European average, at the same time, is lower: 67 in November 2003, 24 today. For example, Germany has 57 and France 44. We are in third place: the real problem is that our country takes a long time to provide for pending procedures: an average of almost fifty-two months; Malta that puts us seventy-six and Greece fifty-four. On the first transposition deficit, the Commission's indicator to assess the degree of reactivity of national law to directives, the European average is 1.5; Italy is strangely bright, with an index of 0.9; France and Germany have an index of 1.1. In short, we immediately receive, as demonstrated by the few open procedures for non-transposition, but often and willingly ill, as clearly indicated by the number of procedures still pending for infringement of EU law. Why? The real problem is that we continue to focus on the descending phase and not on the ascending one. We do not write the directives in Brussels, unlike our European partners, and when it comes to approving the Union's legal system, stubbornly, we do not want to implement the Community's measures badly, even with intent, as in the case of the last delegation law and the implementation of the Barnier directive or as we have recently done on the envelopes in the decree-law on the Mezzogiorno. The vote of the Federation of Liberty Group will of course be positive, because the deadline for transposition of four European directives contained in this draft law is set for 1 September and the above data seems clear to me that we are full of infringement procedures. However, a radical change of course is needed on the subject of Italy's participation in the European Union. First, the Moavero law does not fully regulate the ascending phase, giving us tools to intervene as first aid and not as preventive medicine. We cannot expect to see our interests protected in the context of the Union if our contribution to the drafting of legislative proposals is very close to zero. It is necessary to return to the above-mentioned Moavero law in order to implement Parliament's powers of participation in the formation of directives and regulations and not always find us unprepared. Secondly, the European Policy Department does not direct the work in Brussels, as our permanent representation is still in the hands of the Foreign Minister. The European Policy Department is an office of the Presidency of the Council of Ministers which has the main aim of chasing after the administrations that are becoming increasingly responsible for shutting down the faults of our system. That's not what our country needs. We need to stand tall in Europe, showing that we are able to compare ourselves with other Member States on the big issues and the big challenges ahead of us in the future. Finally, we really need to take note of the importance of the parliamentary delegations contained in the draft law under discussion. A blank delegation, such as that date for the privacy regulation, not only assures us of infringement procedures, but degrades the role of this House. I hope this House will remember, for example, what happened with the 2014 European delegation law when we delegated the government to transpose the tobacco directive and then in the legislative decree we asked to extend the smoking ban to all motorists, but unfortunately we had not thought about it before. Without these efforts, not only will it be impossible for Italy to be truly competitive in the digital single market, but our state budget will continue to bear crazy costs for infringement procedures charged to us by hundreds of millions of euros. [[Applause from the FL Group (Id-PL, PLI) and AP-CpE-NCD.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-08-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-871.ana.u157	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-08-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-871.ana.u158	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-08-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-871.ana.u159	MAURO Giovanni (GAL (DI, GS, MPL, RI)). Mr President, I would ask you to hand over the text of my speech so that it is annexed to the Minutes of the sitting. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. The Presidency shall authorise it accordingly.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-08-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-871.ana.u160	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-08-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-871.ana.u161	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-08-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-871.ana.u162	CANDIANI (LN-Aut). Mr President, I will disappoint you because I do not have the written statement and I intend to give my full explanation of vote. Some people will want to go on vacation, but some people also want to do political work in this House. Mr Russo (PD). In fact, we're all here while you're not here. We're here. CANDIANI (LN-Aut). Colleagues, this is a matter of seriousness, because the explanation of vote has meaning. [[Comments of Senator Russo]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-08-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-871.ana.u163	Senator Russo, let me talk to you.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-08-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-871.ana.u164	CANDIANI (LN-Aut). Senator Russo, if you already want to go on vacation, you can do it, it's not a problem. The votes of the day have already expressed them. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator Candiani, speak to the presidency. CANDIANI (LN-Aut). However, I anticipate that our vote on the draft European delegation law will not be positive, not so much because of the way in which the debate took place, that there was no vote, or how the votes on the amendments took place, which was widely planned, but mainly because of the way in which the vote on a measure which should be important within the parliamentary seat was taken, but which unfortunately, because of the inability of the majority policy to decline European problems, has not allowed us to give a consutive report on Italy's participation in the European Union that makes sense. Mr President, it will not have escaped what former President Renzi said in recent weeks about his active participation in the development of European policy. He had to declare to an agency: Democracy against bureaucracy. If it wins the secretariat, the PD will propose to veto the inclusion of fiscal compact in the founding treaties of the European Union. Matteo Renzi said that in his speech in front of the audience of the national PD convention. It seems to me that he has won, although he has stated that he wants to withdraw from politics, but I do not feel that I have seen any action in this direction by the Democratic Party, either in the Senate or in the Chamber in the House or in the European Parliament, except for statements of course in favour of the press. What is true is, unfortunately, the weakness of the European Union in making sense of European policy itself, because it has been understood for many years now - you have not understood it, but we have long understood it - that the European Union is not made up of the plurality of the peoples that make up it, but is made up of a singularity of interests, cobblestones put together, which simply make their own interest, not that of the peoples that should govern it. So much so that we would have expected, in the 14th Commission, a debate on the post-Brexit issue, which would lead us to reflect on why one of the main countries of the European Union has taken itself away from the Union. This debate has never taken place, because there is a miscelerating inability on the part of the Italian majority policy to deal with the crisis of the European institution. A European institution that does not have elected summits, a European institution that does not represent the citizens below. On other issues, too, I am thinking of the difficulty in dealing with the crisis in Turkey, which has given us the unworthy spectacle of a pogrom and repression against democracy, we have not seen the European Union, if not in a nuanced and very shy way, taking a position. And now come and tell us: well, let us participate fully in the European Union by approving the regulations, instructions and legal obligations that are imposed on us. We are tired of bureaucratic participation, simply because someone else tells us. On the other hand, we want a participation in the European Union which is based on democracy and is based on respect for the people, which also takes account of our interest and which does not merely subordinate it to a political interest. When, in recent days, it has emerged that the agreements on Triton have been kept secret and hidden for three years and that, in view of the flexibility of the 80 euros, the then Renzi Government agreed of the agreements that brought and have brought over these years Italy to be the hub of the scafisti, I was ashamed of the participation of Italy in the European Union, because frankly these things did not keep them hidden in Parliament, but you have kept them hidden from the citizens, those same citizens to whom you extract every year 5 billion euros, while for the presence of foreigners in Italy the European Union participates with 90 million euros. Undersecretary Gozi checks the numbers, because last year, in the past twelve months, the European Union had two different treatments against illegal immigrants who were not entitled: 50,000 were taken back to the border, or repatriated, in Germany, while only 500 were in Italy. This means, in a very simple way, that there is no common political vision and that the problems, when they are ours, must be solved by us, because the European Union does not exist to solve the problems we are facing. We have seen what has happened with the Saint-Nazaire shipyards these days. And who among you applauded Macron's election against Le Pen, which was to be the misfortune of Europe, will have had the opportunity to repent, as with the Arab Springs, which you applauded in its time and of which today, with what happened later, you pay for its misfortune. So what happens today with Macron? You have noticed that France participates in the European Union as it has always done: first by making its own interest and subordinate to its own interests the European one. And so it is for Germany and so, compared to them, it was for the United Kingdom. We're the only assholes who make Europe's interest first and we subband it to the Italian one. What's the result? From this month the Italian fishermen stop and in the Italian fish sales will come the fish fished in the rest of the Mediterranean, because the laws of the European Union impose it on us. Then we say no. We are tired of participating in a European Union in which we are given obsessive regulations, which have an absurd bureaucracy; a Europe that is that of illegal immigrants; a Europe that kills the Italian market for rice and agriculture and does not give a vital space even to our export of Made in Italy; A Europe that forgets the founding values, which were to keep peoples together, not to base themselves on banks and on a currency that unfortunately created further inequalities. You forgot, but the Greeks haven't forgotten what the troika did yet. We did not forget what Italy had to pay to keep the German and French banks who had absorbed the Greek debt calm. We are fed up that there are those who do the fierce face, model Junker, towards Britain, choosing the attitude of those who are convinced that they are enough for themselves. This is not the European Union, this is a union of banks and other interests. We are tired of participating in a European Union in which 70 000 tonnes of oil are imported per year, excluding the Italian quality market from the market, making this pass as an aid to countries like Tunisia. Why do you not make the rest of the European Union financially participate in the aid of those countries and instead accept rules that make our agriculture pay the price? I'm telling you, because you're not credible. You cannot always take the alibi of the European Union. You have done everything, in an obsessive way, to say, when the jobs act was to be done, that the European Union had to do it because the European Union has to do it; constitutional reforms because the European Union tells us so; empty prisons and Fornero reform because otherwise the European Union is sanctioning us. We say that is enough, because if it is not in the interests of our citizens, the Italian Government must go to European level and say no. I should like to conclude, Mr President, by saying: We cannot continue with the "Europe asks us to do so." Let's move on to the "Italy asks for it." Europe does, but not so. It takes just a nice face of the tolle after spending three years imposing to manganellate to the Italian reforms that have brought nothing to the advantage of this country! It's got to be a pretty big face. You vote for this European law. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-08-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-871.ana.u165	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-08-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-871.ana.u166	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-08-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-871.ana.u167	Mr Barani (ALA-SCLP). Mr President, our Group, unlike the previous group, is not an extra-Community group: we are obviously in favour of Europe and we want to make a contribution. We will vote in favour at the end, but with the contribution of some criticism, which is necessary, because it is indisputable that our country's membership of the European Union entails obligations for us which we must - and must - fulfil. We also know that this text is based on the need to prevent infringement proceedings against Italy, as a result of a number of decisions on specific cases made by the European Court, which legitimize the European Commission to make formal references to Member States which do not comply with the provisions of those judgments. Indeed, on 13 July 2017, the European Commission adopted certain decisions on infringement procedures for failure to transpose European directives. With regard to Italy, the decisions concerned two constitutions in default, three reasoned opinions and three filings of infringement proceedings and the filing of an EU Pilot case already closed negatively. The number of procedures - we invite you to reflect on this point - at the expense of our country stands at 65, of which 54 (an enormity) for violation of Union law (especially for our criminal law) and 11 for failure to transpose directives. The measure in our examination sees very heterogeneous norms, intended to supplement the national law or to regulate ex novo aspects of the economic, social and health life of Italian citizens in extremely differentiated areas, and is not insignificant. It is a full-bodied law, which includes the delegation to the Government for the transposition of 26 directives and the adaptation of our internal law to six European regulations. The subjects range from the discipline of tourist packages and services linked to that of trade marks; from the regulation of insurance distribution to the adaptation of legislation on the illicit abuse and communication of inside information and market manipulation (the so-called market abuse), as well as on indices used as a reference in financial instruments and contracts or to measure the performance of investment funds; from the strengthening of certain aspects of the presumption of innocence and the right to participate in the trial in criminal proceedings to guarantees for children investigated (and does this seem little to you?) or accused in criminal proceedings from the protection of personal data in investigation activities to the mandatory automatic exchange of information in the field of taxation; from the interoperability of the rail system of the European Union and from the safety of rail and passenger ships to the reduction of national emissions of certain air pollutants. Moreover, the bill confers on the Government a biennial legislative delegation for the introduction of criminal and administrative sanctions for the violation of European precepts contained in European regulations or directives transposed in a regulatory or administrative way, therefore unsuitable to impose criminal sanctions. These are therefore important issues, which can be seen very clearly on the ordinary lives of citizens and businesses, but which, unfortunately, risk passing hastily in the eyes of Members of Parliament, also missing the opportunity for a specific deepening. It would seem, therefore, that the approval of the text is, in fact, an obligatory act. However, there is a need to reflect on the need for compliance with European obligations not and should not become a passive and uncritical acceptance of rules which, by making an important contribution to our social and productive fabric, can risk being particularly harmful. We also saw this last year with regard to the previous European delegation law, when consumer concerns about the invasion of food products from third countries have come to the fore, and the production and cultivation protocols are not clear. It is therefore always appropriate and necessary for us to stimulate and urge the Government to put in place with the European Commission a stronger and more incisive intercourse to protect our citizens and consumers, as other countries do, such as Germany, France or Spain. Cases can be multiplied, but what I would like to stress is that, beyond the fulfilment of the obligations that we are required today, it is necessary to call into question certain principles at European level and make the needs of our country weigh much more heavily, which cannot fall into a state of subjection and an attitude of almost resignation than the things that are decided beyond. In conclusion, Mr President, I would like to stress that if there were still those statesmen in the First Republic, who made Europe, who determined the rules and made them clear at the time, not like those who were misrepresented and carried out by the Maastricht regulations - and therefore with the comrades Andreotti and Craxi - we would not be in this situation. Therefore, with this contribution and with this criticism, the ALA-Civic Chosen Group, which considers itself a Europeanist - we are not among the groups that can be defined as non-European, as well as those countries that are defined as non-EU countries - declares the vote in favour of this bill of European delegation.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-08-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-871.ana.u168	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-08-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-871.ana.u169	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-08-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-871.ana.u170	Orellana (Aut (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT)-PSI-MAIE). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, this draft law is, together with European law, one of the most important legislative instruments in order to ensure that our legal system is properly adapted to that of the European Union. I therefore take the opportunity to remind this House of the opportunity given to us by the European session: its particular legislative character is both a comparison with the same Community provisions and a review of the work carried out so far. It is no coincidence that many of the measures we examine every day in the respective Commissions have a reference to European legislation: just think of interventions in the agricultural and industrial fields, cohesion policies or even proposals of a judicial and environmental nature. Keeping up with European provisions allows Italy to gain credibility within the Union and save money on infringements. Recently the Government has remembered the lower expenses of the State in infringements for 2 billion euros and a reduction of the infringements opened from 120 in 2014 to 65 of this year. I am very pleased with the Commission' s action because, although the provisions dealt with differ in terms of subjects, the examination has been sensible, thorough and fruitful. I am referring, for example, to what is planned for the regulation of tourist packages and trade marks, rules on market abuse, guarantees for the protection of personal data in investigation activities or the automatic mandatory exchange of information in the tax field. Another important theme is pollution, in all its forms and manifestations. In particular, I tabled an amendment - which was subsequently adopted in the form of an agenda - which calls on the Government not to lower its guard for the reduction of national emissions of certain air pollutants. It is essential to provide that specific reference is made to nitrogen oxides and fine particulate matter in areas and agglomerations where concentrations of air pollutants are very high and in those which contribute significantly to air pollution, including in neighbouring countries, for the implementation of the national pollution control programmes referred to in Article 6 of European Directive No 2284 of 2016. A brief mention, then, may I make a proposal from the Government that has been presented, and then transposed, during the process in the Commission. The adaptation of national legislation to the provisions of European Regulation No 679 of 2016, on the protection of individuals with regard to the processing of personal data, is worthy of interest because it is the first step in implementing a much larger and more comprehensive privacy programme. The balance between personal data protection and internal and external security is - and will be - increasingly in the government agendas of individual Member States. I welcome the adoption of my only amendment to the House's examination of the 2016 European Directive No 2102 on the accessibility of websites and mobile applications of public bodies. With the amendment, I have proposed that national guidelines be drawn up to identify with as much detail as possible the situations in which public bodies are allowed to consider accessibility requirements as a disproportionate burden. This is provided for in order to prevent abuse by public bodies that do not wish to bear charges related to the accessibility of websites, which is for the benefit of disabled users. Mr President, I welcome the measure on the agenda, thanking Mr Gozi for his active participation, Mr Chiti and the rapporteur for the complex study work. As has already been pointed out on other occasions, adaptation to the European provisions must not be interpreted as merely a translation of what has already been decided in Brussels, but rather as a stimulus to ever more continuous participation, made up of interpretations, analyses, comparisons and, if necessary, also oppositions, provided that they are well motivated. I declare the Group's vote in favour for the Autonomies-PSI-MAIE. [[Applause from the Aut Group (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT) - PSI-MAIE.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-08-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-871.ana.u171	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-08-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-871.ana.u172	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-08-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-871.ana.u173	Granaiola (Art.1-MDP). Mr President, apart from some of the problems contained in the text that I will present, I believe that the text proposed by the Commission has, in general, largely taken up many of the comments made by the various Commissions. Given the urgency of approving the European delegation law, Article 1-MDP will vote in favour of the measure with the hope that, especially in the area of health and, therefore, of personal protective equipment, of quality for transfusion services, corrective measures will indeed be taken necessary for the protection of the health of citizens, as provided for in our agendas approved today by the Government. I would ask you to deliver the written text of my speech. [[Applause from the Groups Art.1-MDP and PD]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-08-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-871.ana.u174	The Presidency shall authorise it accordingly.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-08-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-871.ana.u175	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-08-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-871.ana.u176	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-08-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-871.ana.u177	CIOFFI (M5S). Mr President, this law of European delegation - as we all know - seeks to remedy an old problem: the delayed transposition of many European Union directives. Italy is historically late from this point of view and, after four years of Government, we are still late. And we always have to remember that. The measure under consideration is essentially a huge list of delegations given to the Government to transpose the directives and to write the implementation of the directives themselves. The directives are issued by the European Union, which - as we all know - is essentially dominated by the Commission, which is the real problem of the European Union. The real problem with the European Union is that it is not democratic, because those who govern it and those who have the power to make laws are not elected, but are simply indicated. Therefore, the deep problem of the European Union is only its structuring and its composition. The problem is not the European Union. The problem is what the European Union is. This is something we have discussed so many times. We are in a strange limbo in which we talked about Europe. I remember when I was a little younger - I am not particularly old, but then I was a little younger - and we were talking about the great Europe, what was to be the union of peoples. We have done something that is neither meat nor fish, as always happens not only in Europe, but of course also in Italy. It is a continuous becoming of what we see continuously. We have not made a political European Union, but we have made the euro, a monetary union, which has taken political power from the elected ones and given it to a fanciful Commission. A few steps have been taken, but we are still slow and we are in the strange situation in which the European Union dictates the rules with such a system, in which we all know that there are very strong lobbying pressures at European Union level without the possibility for elected Members to put their mouths. This gives rise to directives, regulations and all that nice tran tran about which we continue to talk. Then there are very particular points in the bill of European delegation. For example, in Article 1 - there is no need to go far - the Government is delegated to adopt, in accordance with the terms, procedures and principles and whatever else, the legislative decrees for the implementation of the directives listed in Annex A. What does that mean? It means that the Government is delegated to adopt, as it sees fit, the European directives, which are twenty-eight. We give a basically blank delegation to the government by establishing that it must adopt the directives with decrees and do a bit of whatever it wants. Obviously we will never be able to allow and we will never be able to agree with such a goddamn thing, given the level of this government, that we all hope to go home soon. But sooner or later the general elections will come and we'll see what happens. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] Let us see what some directives are. For example, we have Directive 1034/2016. What's that gonna be? It is a directive called MIFID 2, which talks about the financial system and says that financial transactions must be made in the order of the thousandth of a second. In order to adapt to this directive - in Italy we are at the forefront - we have connected the Milan Stock Exchange with an atomic clock that is in Turin, and we have done it with a nice fiber optic cable; that optical fiber which is so much talked about and which once again the Government says very slowly to do, but does not. Regardless of that, this link was made because transactions must be made at the thousandth of a second. Do you know why? Financial transactions, almost 90% of the total, are made by robots, by software. Is this the financial system towards which we are going, where man disappears definitively and the machine appears on the horizon? But do we want this? Is it the financial system that we want? The European Union tells us that we have to make financial transactions at the thousandth of a second instead of proposing to make a serious Tobin tax at Community level. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] Financial transactions like that create incredible imbalances. Once there was a crash - everyone knows the story - that produced a 10 percent bag decay in the order of 22 seconds. This is what happens and it is the system we are going to. There is another very interesting directive which concerns the interoperability of the rail system. Who can disagree with the interoperability of the rail system? But there is also another, where there is talk of opening up rail transport services to the market and it is said, in essence, that the independence of the infrastructure manager must be strengthened with specific reference to cases where the operator is vertically integrated. It is the situation in Italy that is the only European nation to have opened up free competition in the high-speed sector. Why don't France, Germany or other countries do it? Why don't we say anything? Is that what we want to do with the European delegation laws? Is this the contribution that we want to make to Europe or do we want to start to bet our feet seriously to defend our country's interests? If we really are better at opening up to free competition than others, then we should go and slap - of course metaphorical - the French, while slaping them to us with the game on Fincantieri that we have already talked about. So when do we start protecting our interests? And not corporate interests - out of charity - but the interests of citizens. If we are open to competition, such as - for example - rail infrastructure and its operator, why not the other countries too? We should have said this in order to defend our responsibility and what we have decided to do in compliance with European dictates. When we observe that Germany violates the rules that it wanted to impose - as we all know - because it exceeds 6% of the trade budget surplus and is told nothing, because it is the leading nation, the one that leads Europe, where do we want to go? 15.12 (Followed by CIOFFI). Why didn't we say, when we made the fiscal compact, that it said that the debt had to be put into common factor? Holy shit! We should have done that, and we didn't do that. The government has done nothing and, therefore, we cannot vote in favour of the bill when we examine it. [[Applause from the M5S Group. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-08-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-871.ana.u178	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-08-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-871.ana.u179	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-08-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-871.ana.u180	MINEO (Misto-SI-SEL). Mr President, I will be very brief, asking the Presidency to be able to hand over the full text of the Italian Left's explanation of vote in favour of the draft law of a European delegation, so that it can be annexed to today's report. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. The Presidency shall authorise it accordingly. MINEO (Misto-SI-SEL). I only take two minutes to pick up a remark from Senator Sangalli that should not be overlooked: I do not agree with Senator Sangalli and it is not true that this Parliament is discussing politics. It is not doing so, because the parties are already engaged in a very painful electoral campaign in which they believe they can interpret, mistakenly, the feeling and the belly of the people, hiding the real issues. It is today the news of a great economic newspaper that opens with the resumption of Europe: fourteen consecutive quarters with the sign "+." This recovery has even come to Italy, but we are not discussing it and we risk losing another opportunity, as we have missed the important opportunity of the European Central Bank's policy in recent years. Today I point out to you, subjecting this question to the summer reflection of the senators, that "The Sun 24 Hours," newspaper of Confindustria, asks neither for reduction of taxes, nor aid to rain. To make this recovery less unfair and more stable, he says that public investment, more stable work and higher wages are needed. Can we discuss this? Second question: we are not discussing the case of shipbuilding, which we have completely delegated to a state boyfriend who knows how to do us, but a brilliant economist, Giuseppe Bono, invited here to the Senate by the Industry Commission some time ago, explained that at this time public companies around the world are going better than private companies. We're not discussing this. We discuss this - when we discuss it in the newspapers - in terms of Barletta's challenge. That's not the real reason. We should clarify our industrial policy choices, whether or not we are interested and under what conditions to build a nautical pole in our country. It can also be thought that not discussing politics is not a disadvantage, because it allows the government, not addressed by its majority, to manage the day by day with a certain tactical and diplomatic capacity. Perhaps this is better than if it had demagogic and electoral indications from its majority. However, there are areas where Italy's loneliness is dramatic. I am thinking, for example, of the story of Libya, about which we spoke earlier. The only thing I understand about our government's position is that Minniti is deceiving himself to make a strong deal with the tribes of southern Libya. However, ladies and gentlemen, to think that the tribes solve our problem, if not in a general framework of European policy, it means to write our foreign policy on the desert sand. It is clear that the time has come - I hope you will think about it this summer - to build a European policy for Italy. What conditions do we want in Europe? What do we ask of Europe? If the orientation of even some entrepreneurs changes, why is politics so far behind these issues? That is all I wanted to say to you and I hope it will serve your summer reflection. Happy holidays. [[Applause from the Misso-SI-SEL Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-08-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-871.ana.u181	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-08-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-871.ana.u182	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-08-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-871.ana.u183	FLORIS (FI-PdL XVII). Mr President, first of all I would like to ask for permission to hand over the written text of my speech so that it is annexed to the Minutes of today's sitting. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. The Presidency shall authorise it accordingly. FLORIS (FI-PdL XVII). I would just like to make one point. We spent the whole morning discussing Europe and Italy's relations with Europe, that Europe that we would like to see, and that preeminent role that we would like Italy to play in Europe, as Senator Romani said well. It is important to play an important role in the Mediterranean and then to be important in Europe. It is clear that this is our wish for our country. For this reason, we shall be voting in favour of this measure. Of course, if we were to talk about the Consutive Report on Italy's participation in the European Union in 2016, the vote would certainly be against. There is too much emphasis on the results obtained by this Government, while few tangible results can lead to the examination of political activity. Having an Italy that counts more in Europe, as said by Senator Romani and others this morning, is what we hope for and that is why we will express a vote of benevolent abstention. In the text that I have requested to attach, all aspects that we do not like about the European delegation law are examined on a case-by-case basis. [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-08-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-871.ana.u184	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-08-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-871.ana.u185	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-08-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-871.ana.u186	COCIANCICH (PD). Mr President, I too will be extremely brief. I would like to take up some of the points made by the previous speakers. In particular, I can only share Senator Cioffi's concern that we go towards a world now dominated by robots, where people do not speak. That's a fair concern. In order to implement this principle, I hope that Senator Cioffi will go to the European Union's Political Commission in the morning at 8.30 a.m. when we meet and also participate in the debate on the European delegation bill. Your contribution would certainly be useful and we are eager to hear your ideas both about Europe and about robots. [[Applause from the PD Group. Comments of Senator Cioffi]] I fully agree with Senator Candiani's invitation to make reference to the founding values of the European Union. Let me read Article 2 of the Treaty on European Union: The Union shall be founded on the values of respect for human dignity, freedom, democracy, equality, the rule of law and respect for human rights, including the rights of persons belonging to minorities. Furthermore, in accordance with Article 3, the European Union contributes to peace, security, sustainable development of the earth, solidarity, mutual respect, poverty eradication and the protection of human rights. I believe that these are principles that we too - like Senator Candiani - must share, especially when we talk about migrants, refugees, all those who are persecuted. As regards the merits of the delegation law, I would just like to thank President Chiti sincerely, and the rapporteur and also the Government, which in three years has significantly reduced infringement procedures by half. Today we are doing something important in this direction. To be European is not to chat, it is not to make declarations of principle, but to do concrete things, simple steps, sometimes modest, but that little by little help our country to recover a credibility that has been lost, when we held the black shirt of Europe with 120 pending infringement procedures. Today we have reached 65 and, with the approval of this measure, we make a further contribution to the credibility of our country. I thank everyone and declare the Democratic Group's vote in favour. [[Applause from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-08-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-871.ana.u187	We shall therefore proceed to the final vote. Pursuant to Rule 120 (3) of the Rules of Procedure, I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of the bill as a whole in the amended text. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the vote on motion for a resolution No 1. SANTANGELO (M5S). We call for the vote to be taken by simultaneous ballot by electronic means. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of motion for a resolution No 1 tabled by Senator Romano and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). We have thus completed our work. I wish everyone a good vacation.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-08-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-871.ana.u188	I'm asking to talk. [[Brusio.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-08-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-871.ana.u189	You may, but I advise you to wait a few moments, because it is difficult to get silence while you exchange your best wishes for a good holiday. Recover your energy, we'll meet here in September.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-08-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-871.ana.u190	Please, Senator Puglia, begin your intervention. PUGLIA (M5S). Mr President, if time for man cancels all torment, for the PD, party of hypocrisy, time is the best ally to keep privileges alive. In the embarrassment and above all in the disappointment of so many of their souls, the fake Democrats were forced to vote in the House the battle of the 5 Star Movement that puts an end to the shameful privilege of vitality; discussion that could and had to be faced with the positive vote of the Senate too. But here we wanted to take advantage of the time option, postponing it all to autumn and hoping for better times. They are hypocrites that, if they really wanted to abolish the vitality, as from the text passed to the House, they would have voted with closed eyes the emergency procedure requested by the 5 Star Movement and yesterday we would have made a nice gift to the Italians for this summer. They are hypocrites who encamp as a squalid pretext the need to study a broken and retrieved text and known to all. Hypocrites, like that exponent of your party elected on 11 June last mayor of Portici, my city, proclaimed first citizen even a month and a half later, who, almost two months after the elections, has not yet appointed a single councilman and who lets time run inexorable to arrive at the last useful day to resign from the Senate; day that for, a singular fate, will fall exactly when the work of the Senate Chamber is suspended. The work will resume on 12 September, only four days after the retirement. So, let's start with a hired guy. The doctor did not prescribe it to be the mayor at the same time as his parliamentary mandate. Today the Senate closes for vacation. I have waited until the last day - my Group has already pointed this out - to give confidence to a member of the Senate of the Republic, before calling upon Senator Vincenzo Cuomo to respect the word given to the citizens of Portugal in the electoral campaign. When the journalist of the newspaper "La Repubblica" Conchita Sannino, in an article of July 1, has cast shadows on her will to waste time to trigger the pension, Senator Cuomo has replied that they are only curses. Well, bad indeed: the curses are turning into love reality. Now the responsibility lies with the presidency of the Senate. On 12 September the Senate will reopen its doors: take the same day of resignation and/or decadence; declare immediately the decadence due to incompatibility and we do not play games to trigger the retirement to Senator Cuomo. The doctor didn't prescribe it to run for mayor!
ParlaMint-IT_2017-08-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-871.ana.u191	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-08-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-871.ana.u192	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-08-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-871.ana.u193	DE PIN (GAL (DI, GS, MPL, RI)). Mr President, the greatest concern and the common thought of more and more parents is that their children will be used as a kind of guinea pig, and this is because new doubts are always on the horizon. The last one concerns the modified figure on the liar of a widespread hexavalent vaccine which, before 29 July, had as its final date for administration the age of twenty-four months. After the entry into force of the legislation on vaccines, this age limit has disappeared. What would be scientific in this change of course? Why does AIFA change the cards on the table? Above all - just as someone else questioned - would it mean that beyond that age group such vaccine has never been tested? On the other hand, we are talking about a company, Glaxo, which has always made profits its first weapon of battle at the expense of children. There are numerous investigations, ongoing trials and convictions. Even the company SIPNEI (scientific company that promotes the study of the human organism in its entirety) recently signed a document explaining the doubts about the vaccination plan and the lack of protection of the recipient of the law. Incomplete news has fallen on the Italians over the past year to convince them of the existence of imaginary health emergencies, when the first real causes of death in our state are represented by heart disease, cancer and pollution. But it does not seem to me that an urgent decree has been made on the subject; on the contrary, on the subject of pollution there would be so much to say. The health of children should not be dependent on hasty measures and parents should not be left worried about a sea of uncertainty because, if vaccines are administered without the necessary care, tragedies of immense proportions can occur.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-08-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-871.ana.u194	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-08-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-871.ana.u195	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-08-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-871.ana.u196	URAS (Mixed-Mist-CP-S). Mr President, I would like to highlight a problem which concerns Sardinia and, in particular, territorial continuity. The tender launched by the Region has been deserted - this is known - and it was a serious mistake by the Sardinian Regional Council, which risks being lethal for the right to mobility of the Sardinians. The ENAC warns us that the regime of extension concerning the previous model of territorial continuity must end; otherwise there would be problems in relation to the European Commission. Alitalia, which today guarantees this service, is in commissioner's administration, at an advanced stage of liquidation. These are all circumstances which create intolerable concern and uncertainty about the maintenance of the fundamental freedom of mobility of islanders and Sardinians. Mr President, at this time we are presenting a motion on this subject to the Senate's offices and we are calling for a strengthened debate as quickly as possible on the resumption of work. The topic of mobility and guarantee of the air transport of Sardinia is absolutely inescapable. We call for Parliament and the Government to work towards the European recognition of Sardinia's insularity, which underlies a system of exempted aid and guarantees, also through a safeguard regulation, territorial continuity to and from Sardinia as a solid bulwark compared to the exclusive interest of the airlines, in defence, instead, of the fundamental rights of that community and the Sardinian people. Mr President, if the conditions for opening a real debate on this matter are not met, I shall announce my resignation from the Senate.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-08-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-871.ana.u197	Senator Uras, I hope that your resignation will not be there, given the contribution you always give to the Senate and its island, Sardinia, which I have had the opportunity to appreciate more and more.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-08-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-871.ana.u198	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-08-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-871.ana.u199	Senator Arrigoni, to her the end, dulcis in fundo; someone also says in cauda venenum: it is a matter of determining which one serves.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-08-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-871.ana.u200	[[Laughter]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-08-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-871.ana.u201	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-08-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-871.ana.u202	Arrigoni (LN-Aut). Mr President, late in the morning, during the debate on the resolution on the naval mission to Libya, we caught, by several members of the majority, enthusiastic that, especially in July, the landings would be reduced. Well, I would like to put these colleagues back on the ground because, to date, there are over 95,000 people who have arrived in our country since the beginning of the year and from 2014 to today there are over 600,000. I remember that over 50 percent of these have lost track, are irregular and we don't know what they're doing. They're probably making ghettos, or they're expanding the ranks of organized crime. The remaining 50% requested asylum, but most of the applicants are economic migrants and, therefore, illegal immigrants. My speech at the end of the sitting - as I promised a few weeks ago - still reminds Minister Minniti of answering our parliamentary questions, the last of 28 June, the 4-07717, which recalls similar questions, namely the 4-07299 of 30 March and the 4-07357 of 19 April, because for over three and a half months, President, the Ministry of the Interior no longer inserts the presences in the reception system in the daily statistical dashboard, which is totally out of control. The anomaly lies in the fact that at the end of 2016 there were 176,000 people in the reception system and from then on to July 7 - last available data - about 77,000 other people have applied for asylum and by law are entitled to assistance. Therefore, we wonder why the Minister of the Interior does not insert the numbers related to the presences in the reception system that - I remember - Cuba, in economic terms, the two-thirds of the famous 4.7 billion that Padoan says this year that the Italian State, or the Italians, will spend on the management of immigration, which is totally out of control. The reception system, Mr President, is out of control because - I say this to you - some perfect are in charge of the cooperatives, who have been in the raid of the reception for several months, acting as real estate agents. They go around the territories looking for private buildings and places to build containers and refugee camps, indeed illegal camps. Therefore, in the face of this situation totally out of control, I invite Minister Minniti - I understand that now we start the holidays - to dedicate part of your time - if he cannot, call some executive of his Ministry - to give not to the North League but to the country, to the Italians, the precise numbers of the reception system. And, if necessary, it denies the fact that many who obtain refugee status or subsidiary protection - unlike what happened a few months ago - are immediately thrown out of the reception system, as it is so saturated, full of illegals. If it were confirmed, it would be a real shame. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-08-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-871.ana.u203	The motions, questions and questions received by the Presidency will be published in Annex B to today's report.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-08-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-871.ana.u204	The Senate will meet again in public session on Tuesday, 12 September, at 5 p.m., with the following agenda: (See agenda) The sitting was closed at 15.37 p.m.
