ParlaMint-IT_2017-07-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-850.ana.u1	The sitting was opened at 16.31 a.m. The Minutes shall be read. Mr Scoma, Secretary, read the Minutes of the afternoon sitting of 28 June. PRESIDENT. - The debate is Since there were no comments, the Minutes were approved.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-07-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-850.ana.u2	The list of senators on leave and absent on assignment received from the Senate, as well as further communications to the Assembly, will be published in Annex B to today's Minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-07-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-850.ana.u3	I would warn you that qualified votes can be taken in the course of today's sitting by electronic means. Therefore, from this moment the period of 20 minutes from the notice provided for in Article 119, paragraph 1, of the Regulation (at 16.35).
ParlaMint-IT_2017-07-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-850.ana.u4	Waiting for the Conference of Leaders to end, I suspend the sitting. (The sitting was suspended at 16.35 a.m. and resumed at 16.56 a.m.)
ParlaMint-IT_2017-07-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-850.ana.u5	The next item is the President's statement on the timetable for proceedings. The Conference of Leaders approved the agenda for the Assembly's work until 3 August. This afternoon it will continue until its conclusion the bill of amendment to the code of anti-mafia laws and prevention measures. Starting tomorrow morning, the general discussion of the draft law on citizenship will take place. Ten hours were allocated to the Groups, including incidental issues. The decree-law on vaccination prevention will be examined by the Assembly as soon as it has been concluded by the Commission. At 6.30 p.m. tomorrow afternoon, the Minister of the Interior will report on the management of migratory flows. Groups will be able to intervene for five minutes each. It will follow the bill of delegation for the code of the show, connected to the maneuver of public finance. Next week's calendar includes, in addition to the follow-up to the unfinished draft law, the following measures: celebration two thousand years after the death of Ovid; small municipalities; provision of Internet services; Italian sign language; decree-law on the economic growth of the Mezzogiorno. In the week from 18 to 20 July, the European delegation law 2016 and the related summary report on Italy's participation in the European Union for the year 2016 will be examined. On Thursday 20 July, at 2 p.m., Parliament is convened in a joint sitting for the election of a judge of the Constitutional Court; therefore, the session of inspection union will not take place. The schedule of the week from 25 to 27 July provides for the decree-laws in banking matters, when transmitted by the Chamber of Deputies; the draft law on advance provisions of treatment, where concluded by the Commission; ratifications of international agreements and documents defined by the Junta of Parliamentary Elections and Immunities. In the week from 1 to 3 August, when concluded by the competent Commissions, the draft laws on the market and competition will be examined; accounting and settling; sludge disposal in agriculture. The calendar includes sessions devoted to the discussion of motions in the mornings of Tuesday 18 (nuclear weapons proliferation) and Tuesday 25 July (agriculture). The calendar will also be integrated with the discussion of the Senate's accounts and internal balance sheets.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-07-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-850.ana.u6	The Conference of Presidents of Parliamentary Groups, which met today with the presence of the Vice Presidents of the Senate and with the intervention of the representative of the Government, adopted - pursuant to Rule 53 of the Rules of Procedure - the following programme of the Senate's work for the months of July, August and September 2017. - Drawing of law n. 2134 and related - Changes to the code of anti-mafia laws and prevention measures, referred to in Legislative Decree n. 159 of 6 September 2011, to the penal code and to the rules of implementation, coordination and transitional of the code of criminal procedure and other provisions. Delegation to the Government for the protection of work in companies seized and confiscated (Approved by the Chamber of Deputies) - Relegno di legge n. 2092 and related - Amendments to the law 5 February 1992, n. 91, and other provisions in the matter of citizenship (Approved by the Chamber of Deputies) - Disegno di legge n. 2287- bis and related - Delegation to the Government for the code of performance (Approved by the presence of the legal number) - Disegno di legge n. 2304 - Provisions for the celebration of the two thousand years after the death of Publio Ovidio Nasone - Disegno di legge n. 2484 - Provisions for the provision of services of the Internet for the protection of competition and the freedom of access to users (Approved by the Chamber of Deputies) - Disegno di Reggio n. 302 - Provisions for the provision of services of the Internet for the protection of the users (Approved by the Chamber of Deputies)
ParlaMint-IT_2017-07-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-850.ana.u7	During the same meeting, the Conference of Presidents of the Parliamentary Groups also adopted by majority - in accordance with Rule 55 of the Rules of Procedure - the following calendar of proceedings of the Assembly until 3 August 2017: [[Tuesday, 4 July pom h. 16,30 - Following bill n. 2134 and related - Amendments to the code of anti-mafia laws and preventive measures (Approved by the Chamber of Deputies) - Following bill n. 2092 and related - Provisions in the matter of citizenship (Approved by the Chamber of Deputies) - Information of the Minister of the Interior on the management of migratory flows (Wednesday 5, 18.30) - Drawing of law n. 2856 - Decree-Law n. 73, urgent provisions in the matter of vaccination prevention (Final vote before 8 July) (Scade on 6 August) - Drawing of law n. 2287- bis and related - Delegate to the Government for the code of the spectacle (Linked to the maneuvering of public finance) (Final vote with the presence of the legal number) Wednesday 5 " ant. h. 9,30-13 " " " pom. h. 16,30-20 Thursday 6 " ant. h. 9.30-14 Thursday 6 July pom. H. 16 - Questions and questions]] [[Tuesday, July 11 pom. h. 16,30-20 - Following unfinished drafts of law - Drawing of law n. 2304 and connected - Celebration two thousand years after the death of Ovid - Drawing of law n. 2541 - Small Municipalities (Approved by the Chamber of Deputies) - Drawing of law n. 2484 - Provision of Internet services (Approved by the Chamber of Deputies) - Drawing of law n. 302 and related - Italian language of signs - Drawing of law n. 2860 - Decree-Law n. 91, economic growth in the Mezzogiorno (Final vote by 22 July) (Scade on 19 August) Wednesday 12 " ant. h. 9,30-13 " " " pom. h. 16,30-20 Thursday 13 " ant. h. 9.30-14 Thursday 13 July pom. H. 16 - Questions and questions]] Amendments to draft law no. 2541 (Little Municipalities) and 302 (Italian Language of Signs) must be presented by 1 p.m. on Thursday 6 July. Amendments to draft law No 2860 (Law No 91, economic growth in the Mezzogiorno) will have to be tabled by 1 p.m. on Monday 10 July. [[Tuesday, 18 July ant. h. 11-13 - Motions on the proliferation of nuclear weapons Tuesday 18 July pom. h. 16,30-20 - Following unfinished drafts of law - Drawing of law n. 2834 - Law of European delegation 2016 (final vote with the presence of the quorum) and document LXXXVII, n. 5 - Consuntiva report on the participation of Italy in the EU for the year 2016 Wednesday 19 " ant. h. 9,30-13 " " " pom. h. 16,30-20 Thursday 20 " ant. h. 9,30-13,30]] The deadline for tabling amendments to bill No 2834 (European Delegation Law 2016) will be set in relation to the Commission's work. Parliament is convened at 2 p.m. on Thursday 20 July for the election of a Judge of the Constitutional Court. The senators will vote first. [[Tuesday 25 July ant. h. 11-13 - Motions on agriculture Tuesday 25 July pom. h. 16,30-20 - Following unfinished drafts of law - Drawing of law n.... - Decree-Law n. 89, banking sector (Scade on 16 August) (Ove transmitted by the Chamber of Deputies) - Drawing of law n..... - Decree-Law n. 99, compulsory administrative liquidation Banca Popolare Vicenza and Veneto Bank (Scade on 24 August) (Ove transmitted by the Chamber of Deputies) - Drawing of law n. 2801 and related - Advanced provisions of treatment (Approved by the Chamber of Deputies) (Ove concluded by the Commission) - Ratifications of international agreements defined by the Commission for Foreign Affairs - Documents defined by the Board of Parliamentary Elections and Immunitys Wednesday 26 " ant. h. 9,30-13 " " " pom. h. 16,30-20 Thursday 27 " ant. h. 9.30-14 Thursday 27 July pom. H. 16 - Questions and questions]] The deadline for tabling amendments to the draft law No... (Decree-Law No 89, credit sector) and to the draft law No.... (Decree-Law No 99, compulsory administrative liquidation Banca Popolare Vicenza and Veneto Banca) will be established in relation to the transmission times by the Chamber of Deputies. The deadline for tabling amendments to draft law No 2801 and related (anticipated treatment provisions) will be set in relation to the Commission's work. [[Tuesday 1 August ant. h. 11-13 - Following unfinished arguments - Draft law n. 2085-B - Annual Market and Competition Law (Approved by the Chamber of Deputies, amended by the Senate, again amended by the Chamber of Deputies) (Contributed to the Public Finance Maneuver) (Final vote with the presence of the quorum) (Ove concluded by the Commission) - Drawings of Law n. .... - 2016 Report and 2017 Settlement (Final ratings with the presence of the quorum) (Ove concluded by the Commission) - Draft law n. 2323 - Delegate disposal sludges in agriculture (Final vote with the presence of the quorum) (Ove concluded by the Commission) " " " pom. h. 16,30-20 Wednesday 2 " ant. h. 9,30-13 " " " pom. h. 16,30-20 Thursday 3 " ant. h. 9,30]] The terms for the submission of amendments to bill No 2085-B (annual market law and competition), to the draft law of Report 2016 and Settlement 2017 and to the draft law No 2323 (Delegate sludge disposal in agriculture) will be established in relation to the work of the Commissions. The calendar will be integrated with the discussion of the accounts of the Senate's expenses for the year 2016 and the draft internal budget for the year 2017. Time distribution for incidental matters and general discussion of bill No 2092 and related (Citizenship provisions) [[Groups 10 hours, of which: PD 2h. FI-PdL XVII 1h. 9' M5S 1h. Mixed 56' AP-CpE-NCD 51' Aut (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT)-PSI-MAIE 44' GAL (DI, GS, MPL, RI) 43' Art. 1-MDP 41' ALA-SCLP 40' LN-Aut 39' FL (ID-PL, PLI) 37']] Time distribution for discussion of bill No 2856 (Decree-Law No 73, urgent provisions on vaccination prevention) (10 hours, excluding explanations of vote) [[Rapporteur 1 h. Government 1 h. Votes 1 h. Groups 7 hours, of which: PD 1 h. 24' FI-PdL XVII 48' M5S 42' Mixed 39' AP-CpE-NCD 35' Aut (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT)-PSI-MAIE 31' GAL (DI, GS, MPL, RI) 30' Art. 1-MDP 29' ALA-SCLP 28' LN-Aut 27' FL (ID-PL, PLI) 26' Dissentents 5']] Breakdown of times for discussion of the bill n. 2287- bis and related (Delegation to the Government for the code of the show) (10 hours, excluding explanations of vote) [[Rapporteur 1 h. Government 1 h. Votes 1 h. Groups 7 hours, of which: PD 1 h. 24' FI-PdL XVII 48' M5S 42' Mixed 39' AP-CpE-NCD 35' Aut (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT)-PSI-MAIE 31' GAL (DI, GS, MPL, RI) 30' Art. 1-MDP 29' ALA-SCLP 28' LN-Aut 27' FL (ID-PL, PLI) 26' Dissentents 5']] Time distribution for discussion of draft law No 2860 (Decree-Law No 91, economic growth in the Mezzogiorno) (10 hours, excluding explanations of vote) [[Rapporteur 1 h. Government 1 h. Votes 1 h. Groups 7 hours, of which: PD 1 h. 24' FI-PdL XVII 48' M5S 42' Mixed 39' AP-CpE-NCD 35' Aut (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT)-PSI-MAIE 31' GAL (DI, GS, MPL, RI) 30' Art. 1-MDP 29' ALA-SCLP 28' LN-Aut 27' FL (ID-PL, PLI) 26' Dissentents 5']] Time distribution for discussion of draft law No 2834 (Law of European Delegation) and document LXXXVII, No 5 (Consutive Report on Italy's participation in the EU for 2016) (10 hours, excluding explanations of vote) [[Rapporteur 1 h. Government 1 h. Votes 1 h. Groups 7 hours, of which: PD 1 h. 24' FI-PdL XVII 48' M5S 42' Mixed 39' AP-CpE-NCD 35' Aut (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT)-PSI-MAIE 31' GAL (DI, GS, MPL, RI) 30' Art. 1-MDP 29' ALA-SCLP 28' LN-Aut 27' FL (ID-PL, PLI) 26' Dissentents 5']] Time distribution for discussion of the draft law n.... (Decree-Law n. 89, credit sector) (7 hours, excluding explanations of vote) [[Rapporteur 40' Government 40' Votes 40' Groups 5 hours, of which: PD 1 h. FI-PdL XVII 34' M5S 30' Mixed 28' AP-CpE-NCD 25' Aut (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT)-PSI-MAIE 22' GAL (DI, GS, MPL, RI) 22' Art. 1-MDP 21' ALA-SCCLP 20' LN-Aut 19' FL (ID-PL, PLI) 18' Dissentents 5']] Time distribution for discussion of the bill n.... (Decree-Law n. 99, compulsory administrative winding-up Banca Popolare Vicenza and Veneto Banca) (7 hours, excluding explanations of vote) [[Rapporteur 40' Government 40' Votes 40' Groups 5 hours, of which: PD 1 h. FI-PdL XVII 34' M5S 30' Mixed 28' AP-CpE-NCD 25' Aut (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT)-PSI-MAIE 22' GAL (DI, GS, MPL, RI) 22' Art. 1-MDP 21' ALA-SCCLP 20' LN-Aut 19' FL (ID-PL, PLI) 18' Dissentents 5']] Time distribution for discussion of draft law No 2085-B (annual market law and competition) (5 hours, excluding explanations of vote) [[Rapporteur 40' Government 40' Votes 40' Groups 3 hours, of which: PD 36' FI-PdL XVII 21' M5S 18' Mixed 17' AP-CpE-NCD 15' Aut (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT)-PSI-MAIE 13' GAL (DI, GS, MPL, RI) 13' Art. 1-MDP 12' ALA-SCLP 12' LN-Aut 12' FL (ID-PL, PLI) 11' Dissentents 5']] Time distribution for discussion of the bill n.... (Report 2016 and Settlement 2017) (7 hours, excluding explanations of vote) [[Rapporteur 1h. Government 30' Votes 30' Groups 5 hours, of which: PD 1 h. FI-PdL XVII 34' M5S 30' Mixed 28' AP-CpE-NCD 25' Aut (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT)-PSI-MAIE 22' GAL (DI, GS, MPL, RI) 22' Art. 1-MDP 21' ALA-SCCLP 20' LN-Aut 19' FL (ID-PL, PLI) 18' Dissentents 5']]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-07-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-850.ana.u8	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-07-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-850.ana.u9	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-07-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-850.ana.u10	DE PETRIS (Misto-SI-SEL). Mr President, as you know, we have put a very precise and very serious question at the Conference of Leaders. We have called for the ratification of the economic and trade agreement between the European Union and Canada (the so-called CETA) to be postponed to this House for reasons of substance and also in some way of method. Mr President, you know that we do not agree with this ratification and that we have already explained all our motives in the Foreign Commission: we believe that this agreement represents a serious damage to environmental and social rights and to our entire agri-food system. We asked you to remove this ratification from the timetable in order to wait at least for the French Constitutional Court to give its ruling. Some Members of Parliament in France - they can - have appealed directly to the Constitutional Court and it is clear that, if the French Constitutional Court declared it to be unconstitutional, the agreement would go away, since it is enough that a country does not ratify it so that this cannot go on. That suspensive attitude, which we are still calling on the House, would be at least prudent, as well as further reflection, because important interests are at stake from the point of view of protecting the system of rights. Just to say one, I would like to remind you here that with this agreement a number of chemicals, banned in our country even since the 1970s, could enter freely through the agreement on products. What is even more serious is that the sovereignty of this Parliament would be called into question, because any law that this Parliament approves that could be considered detrimental to a number of multinational interests could be brought before international arbitration. There is therefore also a very important and serious constitutional problem and, more importantly, we believe that a pause for reflection is needed and we ask that the measure be removed from the timetable at least for now, pending the ruling of the French Constitutional Court.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-07-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-850.ana.u11	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-07-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-850.ana.u12	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-07-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-850.ana.u13	ROMANI Paolo (FI-PdL XVII). Mr President, the amendment you want to approve of the anti-mafia code is neither useful nor appropriate and even threatens to be counterproductive. It is not useful to the Mafia organisations that use corruption, because in such cases it can certainly already use the existing legislation; it is not appropriate and it is not useful for the other events of corruption, because, as has already successfully experienced the Public Prosecutor of Rome, also in this case the confiscation of prevention can be adopted to current legislation, in the presence, however, of repeated episodes that show that the subject draws resources not episodic from corruption. This is not said by a Senator of Forza Italia, says Raffaele Cantone, president of the National Anti-corruption Authority. We have tried, at the Conference of the Leaders which has just ended, to inform Parliament that there has been a debate of which, with guilty delay, we note and that there are non-political representatives, but scholars, constitutionalists and national authorities who also say that they have not been audited in the Commission on an issue that has become the subject of debate. I realize that we are also late to request a return to the Commission, but in twenty-four years of parliamentary activity, by heart, I do not recall such an open and heated debate, with respect to a not insignificant subject, which has opened with guilty delay on the contested and approved measure in the Chamber, which has long been debated in the Commission Justice and which reaches the House with a position of our Group clearly, firmly and strongly opposed. At times, the maturity of the political class lies also in the ability to acquire the sensitivity that the country expresses through its most authoritative representatives, some of whom are invested in a fundamental and important task that this Government and this majority have wanted to entrust to them. I repeat, therefore, that we are not talking about exponents of our party, but about scholars, constitutionalists and former presidents of the Constitutional Court who open a heated debate in the country and who say that they are careful, because this measure risks being considerably worsening, instead of being improved, compared to the fight against the mafia, on which we all agree perfectly. The request I make and which I will return to this House is therefore to postpone the measure to the Commission. There is still one article missing, but probably a moment of reflection on the anti-mafia code is worth it. Perhaps something has happened; perhaps we did not notice it in time; perhaps someone, the majority, in his determination to bring to conclusion a measure approved to the House, did not want to make a further reflection. It can happen; there's nothing wrong with it. It may be that those who are delegates to the cultural perception of the country have actually recorded it late or have not noticed it. Something may have happened. And our political side in this House, responsibly, calls for this measure to go back to where it has been debated for a long time: perhaps a further moment of reflection on this subject would be worthwhile. We therefore ask that the next measure that awaits us in the timetable announced by the President should return to the Commission. [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-07-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-850.ana.u14	Senator Romani, I am obliged to inform you that the return to the Commission at this stage is not possible. We shall vote on your proposal as a request to amend the timetable for possible postponement. We cannot access that kind of request, but we will vote on it.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-07-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-850.ana.u15	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-07-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-850.ana.u16	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-07-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-850.ana.u17	BELLOT (Misto-Fare!). Mr President, I think there has been a naive forgetfulness - but at this point it is only ironic if I use these words - as regards the list of unfinished items. If I remember correctly, on 31 May this Assembly incardinated the provision that states the passage of Sappada from Veneto to Friuli-Venezia Giulia and even began the general discussion, with a clear will to continue it at a later moment, at the time when the unfinished topics had been addressed. Well, you have made a list of the unfinished measures, but I have not heard that at all. I believe that the opening of the general debate in fact started a process that usually needs to be respected. There was a clear agreement on the part of all the forces in this House - perhaps someone less and someone else more correct - in expressing this will. Today with the Capigroup it has been seen that in the end probably all this availability was not there, is not there and does not want to be there. We witnessed a year ago, in March, a rather regrettable episode, namely the withdrawal of the bill from the agenda. On 31 May it was incardinated, the general discussion opened and the examination of the measure began. I therefore believe that there is now incorrect and unjustified behaviour towards this bill. We strongly call for the discussion to be resumed as soon as possible as the next item on the agenda so that at least that little confidence in the institutions - which could be determined by this confirmation - can be renewed. I believe that you are unbelievable and this timetable is a confirmation of this. Mr President, I would ask those who committed themselves at that time to continuing the debate on the draft law at the end of the amendment to the Anti-Mafia Laws Code. In the event that the latter is postponed, I even ask that you immediately pass to the examination of the bill on the passage of Sappada to Friuli-Venezia Giulia. Let there really be consistency, will and correctness to keep what has been decided here.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-07-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-850.ana.u18	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-07-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-850.ana.u19	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-07-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-850.ana.u20	Mr Quagliarello (FL-Id-PL, PLI)). Mr President, I note that it is not possible here to ask for the measure to be returned to the Commission. We will do so on our own, if the proposal to amend the timetable that I am going to move forward is not accepted. I believe that what has happened, ladies and gentlemen, is before everyone's eyes and has something unpredictable and even extraordinary. If we could see, one day, Roma fans and Lazio fans speaking in unison; if we heard the fans of Turin and Juventus side in the same way or at least express themselves in the same way; if Milan fans and Inter fans had the same feelings, we would say: well, something is accessing. Now, what has happened in these days that have separated our last working session on the anti-mafia code from today, is something comparable to the examples I have brought. I do not mean that the Italian public debate is done by fans, but by lawyers and right-wing operators with different sensitivities certainly yes. There is a part that has a more guaranteed sensitivity and a part that has more at heart, as it were, the repression of crime. Without giving a judgment of merit, it would be more legalistic than guaranteed. Now something extraordinary has happened: on the measure under discussion we have seen the guarantors and the executioners agree that this measure is not good. I believe that each of us would have thought of dreaming if he had one day to imagine that Cantone, Violante, Flick, Mirabelli, Tesauro, Fiandaca, Cassese, Nordio, the prosecutor of Messina De Lucia and the criminal chambers would have used the same arguments to say that a provision of Parliament is wrong. It seems to me that Parliament should ask itself: if not, we would behave like those who, instead of being in an institution in contact with society and with the debate that society produces, are in an ivory tower that is insensitive to any solicitation and any stimulus. Some of these are not only illustrious lawyers, but also operators at the head of important institutions that should be the counterpart. Frankly, I was surprised to read in an interview in a newspaper in Naples that President Cantone, who has been mentioned many times and on many issues - I have to say sometimes even to the disproportion - said that he was not even audited in the Commission on this measure. Faced with a reality like this, I believe that a moment of reflection, a moment of weighting on the part of Parliament and the Senate is a due act, an act of common sense. Mr President, I am sorry, but it seems to me that the arguments that have been brought to the Conference of the Leaders to avoid this deepening do not stand. On the one hand, it has been said - absolutely true - that the measure has actually been under discussion for a very long time and that these objections have only come to an end. We would have preferred to have heard that the objections that have been raised are not justified, because if the objections come to an end, even one minute before the measure is adopted, and they have a real basis, if the doubts about its constitutionality and its usefulness are well founded, it is good to intervene at the last minute rather than go straight, for consistency, into the ravine. The other thing that has been said is that fortunately there is a bicameral mechanism and therefore the House will modify the provision. You, Mr President, have said many times that fortunately there is the Senate and this time you would probably have been led to say that luckily there is the House. But we are almost at the end of the legislature and imagine that the measure must have an extra parliamentary passage, which could take us even beyond the maximum time, just because we cannot go back, just because we cannot evaluate what some oppositions have said (some of the arguments used by the illustrious lawyers are exactly those used by some oppositions, especially in the Commission); in short, to think that we can put this measure at risk only in order not to take a pause of reflection to me seems frankly an incomprehensible attitude from the logical point of view even before from the political point of view. That, Mr President, is why we are calling for the timetable to be changed. In this respect too, allow me to make another small notation of a methodological nature. Among the issues under discussion is the Italian Sign Language Act, a measure arrived in the Assembly and sent back to the Commission. I do not know what it is, but from the methodological point of view, if the problems have been resolved, a measure which has come to the attention of this House and which has been sent back to the Commission, when its formal problems are resolved or when it is more detailed, obviously deserves priority. That is why I ask you to anticipate the debate on this measure. It is also one way, Mr President, to tell you that in this speech there is no will to obstruct the anti-mafia code, but simply to try to make common sense prevail and not to make our Senate pass as the place where there are people who are outside the reality that do not notice an external debate, criticism from people who usually do not agree; a place of people who prefer to close themselves inside an ivory tower where, in reality, politicians should never stand. [[Applause from the FL Group (Id-PL, PLI).]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-07-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-850.ana.u21	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-07-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-850.ana.u22	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-07-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-850.ana.u23	STEFANI (LN-Aut). Mr President, we are taking action on the amendment to the Anti-Mafia Law Code, which came to the House immediately after the suspension of work. This is certainly a very complex piece of legislation and the debate in this House has confirmed that this is a very difficult piece of work. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, we must bear in mind that when we talk about a subject such as this, in which one of the most serious criminal phenomena in our country is being affected, we must adopt legislation that is not only effective but not objectionable, that does not give rise to doubts or, in any case, to assessments that may affect its scope. During the examination in the Committee on Justice, there were certainly some elaborations made by colleagues to try to improve the text approved by the House, but many problems have been highlighted, so much so that the work done in the Commission (with all due respect for the work I have also participated in) was perhaps a bit confused: some amendments were tabled, some others we suspended the examination, there was a substantial intervention on others. It has certainly turned out that matter is absolutely difficult. I therefore appeal to this text, because none of us can deny that there have been arguments and considerations that do not come from those who do not know the subject, but from those who have lived it and know it well, even in its most technical aspects. We must also try to adopt a rule as widely as possible: the anti-mafia code cannot be approved by this House by a very narrow majority of government, but it must be shared by all of us. The fight against the mob affects everyone and we must all be united. I therefore call on everyone to consider this draft law with a delay in its treatment, so that we can find or perhaps be able to work out or to remedy the inconsistencies or perplexities that may affect its authority once approved by this House. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group and Senator Bilardi.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-07-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-850.ana.u24	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-07-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-850.ana.u25	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-07-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-850.ana.u26	Gasparri (FI-PdL XVII). Mr President, tomorrow's agenda provides for the debate on the draft law n° 2092 and related provisions on citizenship. My impression is that the calendar of the Senate Assembly is dictated more by the editorial-journalist directives than by the ripening of parliamentary debates. It is well known that there is a newspaper that makes the table of what the Senate and the House must do and not do, which reports the measures that must be approved, quoted one by one, with the timetable and the outcome: this is approved and this is not. For example, the House needs to examine the bill on torture, which we discussed for a long time in the Senate, and also introduce changes that we thought were absolutely reasonable. Now no one likes that text anymore, no longer likes the advocates of that law, who consider it insufficient, and certainly does not like those who, like us, believe that the substantive intention is not so much and only to transpose an international convention, questionable, but to create obstruction to the action of the police. Then there is the bill of amendment to the anti-mafia law code, about which the president of our Roman Group and other colleagues have already spoken, regarding an issue that I will not take up again because my proposal to amend the timetable concerns the draft law on citizenship. It has already been observed in several parts, if they have noticed it late or perhaps Parliament will have underestimated the issue both in the House and in the Senate, I do not know, that it is distinguished lawyers of this country, none of which is attributable to our area of thought, have raised disputes about the constitutionality of that provision, even in the modified version that has arrived in this House almost in the right of arrival, to the final vote of the last article. Then he will go to the House and God will see. But in short, there are the calls of Canton who, according to the majority of Government, one day is a hero (I speak of the president of the National Anti-corruption Authority) and another day is not heard in any way so he has happy days and unfortunate days, but also of Sabino Cassese, who towards the political area to which I belong has always been a very determined critic (I remember his articles against my law of reform of the telecommunications system and many other interventions) who said in these hours of the very clear things. So this is a problem that Parliament will then assess. We will see that when we discuss the issue of the anti-mafia code again, because then we will still discuss procedures and problems. At some point, however, it is decided to propose, with contingency times, the bill on the ius soli. My proposal is not to schedule this measure tomorrow but to postpone it until the end of the examination to the Commission. I would like to explain my request, Mr President, that I do not remain on principle, because I am opposed to this bill and therefore I am against it for almost automatic reasons. I would like to say to my colleagues in this House that we do not have an urgent need to adopt this draft law and that it is therefore good that the Commission should be able to discuss it. My Group, the Forza Italia Group, has not tabled tens of thousands of amendments, we have tabled a limited number of them because we want to go into the substance of the debate; we believe that the law is wrong and we want to discuss it in order to convince the Senate, not the country, because the country, ladies and gentlemen, is already convinced that this law is wrong. In the recent local elections, with all due respect for the candidates mayors of this and that party, the towing of Titus and Caius, people voted yes for their cities and mayors, but they also voted looking at the mass landings of immigrants and the fact that they respond to these landings think they give citizenship quickly to other 800,000 people. The law at our examination is a manifesto-law that risks multiplying arrivals in Italy and of which we do not feel the need in the meantime because our Constitution distinguishes the rights of the citizen from those of the person and almost all rights are recognized to the person. The constituents, when they wrote the Constitution, did not use words at random: there are rights that are to be recognized to anyone, to profess their religion, to have their own freedom of thought are rights that belong to the person, to anyone who comes to Italy from anywhere in the world; those rights are linked to his nature as a person. Citizenship extends other rights such as, for example, the right to vote in political elections while other rights, such as health care or education, are guaranteed to people. Then you have to consider the residence permit and anything else. So it is not true that there are rights denied to those who do not have citizenship. As for the draft law on citizenship, I inform my colleagues that in the last two years, with the laws in force on citizenship, they have acquired the Italian citizenship of 400,000 foreigners. Are few 400,000 foreigners becoming citizens in two years? They are a significant percentage: it is one percent of the population of extra citizens, who in detail were 178,000 in 2015 and 202,000 in 2016. They are 400,000 new citizens. It is not a xenophobic country ours, nor an armored country. If a foreigner resides in Italy for a number of years, he may apply for citizenship; if he is born in Italy and reaches his age, he may apply for citizenship; if he is married to an Italian citizen, he may have citizenship. Therefore, we are not in an ivory tower, but in a reality that grants citizenship according to norms that have then been modified and retouched over time. The ius soli is practiced by a few countries. The example of the United States is sometimes taken out of proportion, since in the United States there are even checks, real tests to determine whether a person has adhered to the fundamental constitutional principles. I haven't seen many left-wingers rise. The President of the Chamber - it must be acknowledged - is very sensitive to the issues of rights, but when we had the case of that Italian woman from Bologna, who married a Moroccan (youssef's mother, the terrorist who was later killed in London), she was an Italian woman who was repudiated by Morocco's husband because she did not accept polygamy. That lady was beaten, ended up in the hospital two months in Morocco, then returned to Italy, where she lives, converted to Islam (his free choice) and then met polygamy and repudiation. Well, I have not heard a single word from some of the personalities of our institutions who make a flag on the issue of rights. We must be consistent, and Youssef's mom deserved a word from some of our institutions who, on the other hand, have been completely silent in the face of those harassments. [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII]] So you'll say, what does that have to do with anything? This is because that boy, Youssef, who then died because the British police intervened while killing people in restaurants (he did not die because he was compressed in his rights; he killed and the British police intervened after he had unfortunately already sown death), he was an Italian citizen, because he was the son of an Italian and a foreigner. So, citizenship laws are all too generous. If anything, we should introduce rules for the revocation of citizenship to those who have married fundamentalism and radicalize, want Sharia and want to affirm principles that are contrary to the Republican Constitution. [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII]] And this is not being discussed in Parliament, how to take away citizenship from those who do not deserve it. And when it is objected that there are also mobsters, I propose that they also take away citizenship, to some condemned. If citizenship were raised to Totò Riina and other characters I would be the first to applaud, because I do not believe that citizenship should be denied to those who demerit, if it has ethnic origins of other countries or if it is of religious confessions other than the prevailing one. I believe that it should be denied to all those who stand outside the civil, democratic and constitutional assembly. Therefore, this bill is not urgent at all, it is not necessary and should be discussed in the Commissions, as well as the ius culture and other related measures. Let's see what we need to discuss. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Please conclude. Gasparri (FI-PdL XVII). I shall conclude, Mr President. You're making a mistake and digging your grave. I do not know when to vote and by what electoral law. We hope that this bill will not be passed, but Forza Italia will be at the forefront of proposing a repealing referendum. As we will vote in 2018, the referendum will be - we know - in 2019, but the 2018 elections will focus on this issue and those who support this crazy law will lose them. You're digging your grave, too bad you're digging it in Italy. We won't let you. [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII]] We therefore ask that this proposal should not be scheduled. [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-07-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-850.ana.u27	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-07-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-850.ana.u28	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-07-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-850.ana.u29	Mr Capelletti (M5S). Mr President, I would like to reiterate what has already been said at the Conference of Leaders. In this timetable there are important measures, others less and some completely ignored. With regard to CETA, in conjunction with what has already been said by some of our colleagues, we wonder why we have to deal with Parliament's work on the ratification of a treaty which will probably be rejected, for example, by France, which brought the Trade Treaty before the French Constitutional Court to assess its compatibility with the French Charter. We know that if even one of the members of the European Union does not ratify this Treaty, ratification by all other countries will be made in vain. So why should we be the first country to start ratification work, the first, of course, among the most important in the European Union? I propose that we make the timetable for the approval bill conditional on the ratification of the Comprehensive Economic and Trade Agreement between the European Union and Canada (CETA) to obtain other ratifications from significant countries of the European Union and, in any case, the French Constitutional Court, not because we make the assessment of the measure dependent on this judgment, but because if there were a rejection by that Court, there would obviously be a rejection by France and therefore a ratification of a treaty destined to die. Having said that, I presented at the Conference of the Leaders the request for the calendarization of two other measures, which are priority for the 5 Star Movement, the first of which concerns the so-called class action. Mr President, it is precisely in these days that this reform takes place two years in the Senate: it has arrived in the Senate after being voted unanimously by the House of Deputies two years ago and for two years it has been required to take dust in the drawers of the committees of merit. This is not the place to explain why this is a particularly important reform, but if we do not proceed to its timetable in this House, we will not unblock the situation in the Commission. We take note of the fact that Confindustria has spoken out against the adoption of this measure and therefore we also note that there are political forces in this Parliament which, of course, are much more sensitive to the indications of Confindustria - or rather of its summits - than to the interests of the citizens. Mr President, we have asked the House to schedule the so-called whistleblowing measure. Even in the case of this bill, namely the Senate Act 2208, it has already been approved, essentially unanimously, by the House of Deputies. These are the provisions for the protection of the perpetrators of reports of crime, through which we would like to introduce greater protection for the perpetrators of reports of crime. You tell me, Mr President, if such legislation is not current, after the Council scandal [[Applause from the M5S Group]] and the treatment that has been given to Marroni. We have then reported two motions: No. 803, first signed by Senator Girotto, on the increases resulting from the reform of tariffs on electricity distribution, and No. 445, first signed by Senator Santangelo, relating to the free zone for the island of Pantelleria and the smaller islands. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-07-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-850.ana.u30	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-07-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-850.ana.u31	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-07-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-850.ana.u32	FALANGA (ALA-SCLP). Mr President, we would like to include in the week from 1 to 3 August the continuation of the debate on the draft law amending the Code of Anti-Mafia Laws, that is, the measure which should be examined from here in a few moments. The return of the measure to the Commission is not possible; the Presidency said so and Senator Quagliariello acknowledged it too: this is technically impossible. The problem can only be solved by the rapporteurs of the measure. Knowing the well-known sensitivity of Senators Lumia and Pagliari, I am convinced that they are not at all insensitive to "slaves" - metaphorically speaking, it is understood - that they are gathering in these hours from the Italian legal doctrine, from the Italian judiciary, from the whole world of Italian culture and from Italian citizens. I do not believe that they are insensitive to such "slaps" and I am convinced that they will want to have the time to change the measure, if necessary. Time also serves the People's Alternative Group, the Senator Bianconi, the friends of the People's Alternative, who were satisfied with a plastic surgery - as I said just yesterday in an interview with a daily newspaper - where cancer surgery was needed. It is not possible to imagine having solved the problem with that connection, among other things malfaction, with article 416 of the penal code, where they have left themselves out of crime that can be committed even without the associative form. I believe that these thirty days can be of help to the speakers to attempt surgery on the text under consideration, that sees the favors, not of everyone, of many or of this political part, but at least of the Italian doctrine, of the Italian judiciary, of Canton and of all those exponents who administer the justice and realize that the measure, as it is, will create disarray in that system of jurisprudential, now perfect, that has been created over the years because of the application of the surveillance measures. Everyone recognizes that a balanced, punctual, perfect, incisive and effective arrangement has been created. Do you realize that the rule under consideration will affect the balance that has been created? How? In peius. I am convinced - and I have said this in various quarters - that there is no political force in the Senate that does not want to cooperate to bring about an effective fight against organised crime. However, the race must be set aside for those who bring the bar higher not already for a purpose of real contrast to crime, but to bring a flag that does not go in the direction of the affirmation of the principles of legality in our country, but that, indeed, in confusion will favour even more organized crime. For these reasons, Mr President, I would ask you to include the subject we are discussing in the agenda for the last week. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. What is the subject we are dealing with? FALANGA (ALA-SCLP). In the thirty days available, Senators Pagliari and Lumia will have the feeling to understand that they must correct the shot. [[Applause from the Baran, Bernini and D'Anna Groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-07-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-850.ana.u33	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-07-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-850.ana.u34	I note that those who speak for the first time for their Group have ten minutes available, while those who speak for the second time for the same Group that has already made its requests for amendments have two minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-07-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-850.ana.u35	Senator Caliendo, you have the right to speak. CALIENDO (FI-PdL XVII). Mr President, I would like to ask in part what Mr Romani has already said, but I would like to link myself to the second subject. I believe that we all have a moral and political duty to take into account what has been said in recent days by Professor Fianandaca, Sabino Cassese and Raffaele Cantone. I am not referring to what President Romani has already referred to. Mr President, we have a duty which reminds us of Violante, who invites us to stop to reflect and reminds us of the procedure followed for the examination of the so-called Rognoni-La Torre law, during which there was a deepening for successive degrees. What's bothering me and should worry all of us? There are two aspects mentioned by Cassese and Cantone, which do not represent my political area. A first question concerns the unconstitutionality, recalled by Cassese. What worries me most is the call made by Canton to Parliament to take account of the fact that failure to reflect and approve the text as it stands can lead to a possible or reconsideration of the statements of the European Court of Human Rights and the Constitutional Court that have saved anti-mafia prevention measures, which can no longer be saved and could be incorporated into a declaration of unconstitutionality. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Conclude, Senator Caliendo. CALIENDO (FI-PdL XVII). Mr President, I would just like to say that this, therefore, justifies the return to the Commission, or a postponement, as you say. Let me say on this - and I am also addressing the majority - that we do not win with numbers. We could begin from today with the examination of the draft law on ius soli and have a necessary time that, although contingent, is less drastic than what I have heard: if I have heard correctly, in fact, there are ten hours including any incidental issues and the general discussion and five hours for the examination of the amendments. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Make your request, please, Senator Caliendo. CALIENDO (FI-PdL XVII). My request is to anticipate to date the examination of the measure on ius soli, increasing the draconian time fixed with quota.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-07-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-850.ana.u36	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-07-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-850.ana.u37	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-07-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-850.ana.u38	SMALL (FI-PdL XVII). Mr President, I note that, apparently, the bill on the detachment of the Municipality of Sappada from the Veneto Region and its transfer to the Friuli-Venezia Giulia Region has disappeared from the radar of the Senate's work. Now, this bill - No. 951 - has already been widely instructed and therefore, so to speak, does not start from scratch. I would therefore like to propose an anticipation of any other kind of measure, also because, in formulating this proposal, I believe that the conclusion of its examination could take place in this House for a very short time. The underlying reason is that, otherwise, on the one hand, we will lose a great opportunity to show Parliament's credibility towards the citizens and, on the other hand, we will not honour our commitment to give an answer. Whatever it is, it is important that the citizens of Sappada - and all the citizens of the province of Belluno with them - can have a precise answer. My proposal is therefore to anticipate what in fact is the conclusion of the discussion of this subject with regard to the continuation of the work this afternoon.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-07-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-850.ana.u39	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-07-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-850.ana.u40	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-07-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-850.ana.u41	DI MAY (GAL (DI, GS, MPL, RI)). Mr President, I believe that the whole process covered by the anti-Mafia code is telling us what is happening in this House today. We have tried in every way to amend the text in order to ensure that the anti-mafia code is as shared as possible, but, as you have also noticed during the debate in this House, the feeling that is in the majority is completely different from that of oppositions. If the results of the application of this bill were to fall only on the majority, then I would say to discuss it, talk about it and make explanations of vote; unfortunately, this is not the case: the effective application of this bill will fall on the social fabric of our country and this is something that we absolutely cannot allow, even in the light of the debate that has opened on this matter, in which authoritative lawyers have emphasized the inadequacy of the bill. Our Group therefore supports the request for a postponement of the measure, in the form that the Presidency may consider most appropriate. We also hope that there will not only be a postponement - because if it were to end in itself it would have little meaning - but that it will have the strength and the ability to review all the legislation included within the bill so that we can make it much more appropriate for the purpose that we all, majority and opposition, subscribe to.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-07-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-850.ana.u42	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-07-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-850.ana.u43	Would you like to speak on the order of business? I'm warning you we're already trying to organize the work.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-07-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-850.ana.u44	PALMA (FI-PdL XVII). Indeed, Mr President, there is probably a misunderstanding: my speech is a point of order, it is not on the order of business. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. You have the right to do so. PALMA (FI-PdL XVII). Mr President, it has already happened some time ago, at the beginning of the parliamentary term, that she, precisely with reference to the debates on the timetable, imagined that she would take a similar path to what she is proposing to us now. To tell the truth, I believe that the Regulations must be respected and that the rules laid down in the Regulations and the rules must be put in place to protect both the function of the senator and, above all, the function of the opposition senators. Mr President, I cannot understand very well what regulatory source you are saying. Rule 89 (2) of the Rules of Procedure states that "Save the different terms provided for in the Rules of Procedure, the duration of any other intervention may not exceed ten minutes." That is to say that every senator, in the proposed amendments to the Rules of Procedure, has ten minutes for the illustration; time, this, which cannot be compressed in any way, being specific to the provision, save the different terms provided for in the Rules of Procedure. Moreover, in Article 55, if I recall correctly, it is said that, except when the timetable is adopted unanimously, which makes it definitive, there are the proposals made by the individual senators on the timetable. One speaker per group will speak on these proposals for ten minutes. This is equivalent to saying that we are in the presence of a split phase: the first, that of the proposals made by the individual senators; the second, that in which the Groups, through the intervention of one speaker per Group, if they think so, manifest their thoughts. Therefore, Mr President, in the explanation of the proposals, the Rules of Procedure guarantee every senator the time of ten minutes; it is obviously the maximum time, leaving the senators' good heart with the possibility of limiting their speeches to a shorter time. On the other hand, Mr President, I'm sorry, what would make sense if three senators could speak for ten minutes and other senators for two minutes, one minute, three minutes? And who says it's a minute, two minutes, three minutes, four minutes? Personally, Mr President, I believe that you cannot in any way restrict the time of intervention of the senators, in any case in a particularly important way, from ten to two minutes, and that you should allow every senator to explain his proposal for the time that is guaranteed by the Rules of Procedure. You see, Mr President, I am aware of everything, but probably, because of previous activity, I think that if the rules are not respected or are left to the discretion of some, those rules do not really exist anymore. In a gathering like this, in which there is a majority and an opposition, the compression of the times is all to the detriment of the senators of the opposition; with a further aggravating, being the Senate remained alive at the outcome of the referendum of December 4: that all this is valid as a precedent. That is to say that if, by hypothesis, one tomorrow, in the next parliamentary term, the parties - as I think - were to reverse, it would be easy for some people to go overboard compressing the rights of the opposition by relying on an abnormal precedent which seems to me to be in conflict with both Rule 89 and Rule 55 of the Rules of Procedure. Therefore, Mr President, since I am not saying anywhere that any senator who wishes to speak will fully use the ten-minute time that is guaranteed by the Rules of Procedure, I believe that your line of not allowing more than two minutes is contrary to the Rules of Procedure and therefore I would ask you to withdraw it, so that the speeches can be regularly corrected.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-07-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-850.ana.u45	Senator Palma, I am pleased that you have mentioned the precedent applied in this House and in this parliamentary term. There are, however, precedents dating back to 2007, and since then for ten years, in which my predecessors have also used this system of harmonization of the debate. As you said, one speaker per group is fully entitled to ten minutes; the others can speak according to the harmonisation that the President is obliged to do in order to maintain the order of business. Therefore, since even more time must now be harmonised, especially after your speech, the Group's next speeches will be one minute. [[Comments and protests from the FI-PdL XVII Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-07-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-850.ana.u46	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-07-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-850.ana.u47	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-07-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-850.ana.u48	BERNINI (FI-PdL XVII). Mr. President, first... I would ask you to explain your request for an amendment. There are ten senators from the same group who have signed up to speak. Please, Senator Bernini. BERNINI (FI-PdL XVII). First of all, Mr President, I am speaking on the order of business. Forgive me, I believe, Mr President, with all due respect...
ParlaMint-IT_2017-07-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-850.ana.u49	I must say that the order for inclusion in the speeches is closed. Senator Mario Mauro and Senator Centinario, as the Parent Company, are the last to be registered. You don't accept any more registrations to speak. [[Protests from the FI-PdL XVII Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-07-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-850.ana.u50	Mr President, this further harmonization seems to me to be very damaging to the rights of the opposition. I realize that the opposition may be unpleasant and cause delays...
ParlaMint-IT_2017-07-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-850.ana.u51	No, it is a matter of making an order of business, so you have to intervene on changing the timetable.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-07-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-850.ana.u52	BERNINI (FI-PdL XVII). Mr President, allow us at least one minute, because half a minute would not even allow us to say thank you, Mr President, and to address our colleagues. This seems really excessive to me. Mr President, I repeat, there are the prerogatives of the opposition to which you must balance the order of business and the work of this House. This, in my view, and I also think of my Group, is not a fair balance. [[Applause from Senator Rizzotti.]] Ten interventions can be implemented without altering the work and without altering the timetable, especially in the face of a timetable which tomorrow provides for a draconian quota of time on an important measure such as that on citizenship. Mr President, once again, I believe that it is our right, as members of the opposition, to intervene... [[The microphone is automatically switched off.]] Mr Rizzotti (FI-PdL XVII). Shame! BERNINI (FI-PdL XVII). Mr President, let the majority do its job. It does not over-press the rights of the opposition. This is really too much. [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII]] I would remind you, Mr President, of your third-party status. This is really too much. Allow us to speak, allow us to express what we want to express, in the face of measures, such as the anti-mafia code, which is causing - as my colleagues have pointed out - deep doubts, not only in quidam de populo, that is, in people who do not have competence in this matter, but also in people as Presidents emeritus of the Constitutional Court or lawyers as well as Professor Fiandaca. Strongly critical movements are being raised on a measure that is moving forward at a supersonic speed. Just follow the literature, even if only journalistic, these days. Mr President, if we do not do something about the measure, unfortunately we will be reading much more literature in the coming months and years and we will all be responsible for it. The anti-Mafia code and citizenship measure will be strongly influenced by the opposition's ability to produce all its opposition effects in this House. Mr President, where should we talk about measures other than here? Would you kindly indicate a seat other than this Parliament where you and the majority of these measures are to be spoken to? Do we have to write articles in the papers? To whom must we appeal to express our positions? Mr President, these times are not enough, and I do not consider this extension of time to speak with my person a sufficient instrument to express our opposition to what the Group leaders have decided and to what will be celebrated in this House. PRESIDENT. - The debate is He spoke for four minutes and did nothing but repeat what has already been said without a further request for a change in the timetable. BERNINI (FI-PdL XVII). If you'll let me talk again, I'd like to specify the change. [[Applause from Senator Marin]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-07-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-850.ana.u53	Make the proposal, or I'll take the floor. I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-07-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-850.ana.u54	Hundreds of thousands (LN-Aut). But what are you trying to prove? BERNINI (FI-PdL XVII). Ma'am, I'm sorry, but do you think you're running a kindergarten? How dare you say you're taking my word off? [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-07-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-850.ana.u55	The measure has been under discussion for four years, first in the House and then in the Senate: one year and eight months under discussion in the Senate; we have to discuss the measure on the subject at the time of changing the calendar, is that what you say?
ParlaMint-IT_2017-07-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-850.ana.u56	Mr President, since you are making the negotiating gesture of the majority, I would remind you that the measure has remained firm in the Commission because the majority did not want to schedule it. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I do not negotiate any management; I apply the Rules of Procedure. MALAN (FI-PdL XVII). There has been no mention of this in the Commission. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Make your request to change the calendar, please. BERNINI (FI-PdL XVII). Mr President, since, as you rightly pointed out, we are not dealing with a decree-law, but with a draft law which has remained firm in the Commission for years and on which there is no need and urgency, I believe that we will all be able to agree, a majority, the Commission and yourself, on the timetable for the measure on citizenship that on vaccines, which also has the characteristic of the decree-law and which will certainly be ready in the Commission tomorrow. Moreover, with respect to its content there will be strong influences and co-interests also with the provision on citizenship, since unaccompanied minors who will set foot in our country in any way and who will be able to access primary and secondary education can also be vaccinated. For this reason and in view of the urgent nature of the decree that is being discussed in the competent Commission, I believe that this should be anticipated in the timetable, both with respect to the citizenship measure and with respect to the measure defined as the anti-mafia code. [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-07-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-850.ana.u57	As you know, the decree-laws do not need to be anticipated because they have absolute priority as soon as they are finished in the Commission.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-07-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-850.ana.u58	BERNINI (FI-PdL XVII). Mr President, your clarification is always enlightening. Thank you. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. You know better than I that the decree-laws don't need to be anticipated.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-07-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-850.ana.u59	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-07-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-850.ana.u60	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-07-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-850.ana.u61	Mr Rizzotti (FI-PdL XVII). Mr President, I agree with all that Senator Bernini has said. I would like to remind you that on 22 July in Salerno there will be the World Day of Sjögren Syndrome, a self-immunity disease that affects more than 20,000 Italian citizens. On 17 December, at sitting No 153, I tabled a motion for the consideration of Sjögren's syndrome in the list of rare diseases, which unfortunately was not included in the LEA. In Europe, Eurordis has included this disease in the group of rare diseases (connectivitis), which includes systemic sclerosis, connective tissue diseases, polymyositis, dermatitis, antiphospholipids, systemic lupus erythematosus and Sjogren syndrome. As I said, the motion of which I was first signatory dates back to 17 December 2013. Therefore, since all the world's personalities and scientific societies will be present in Salerno on 22 July, I would very much like the discussion of this motion to be anticipated, and therefore scheduled, in order to give a sense of help and closeness to the 20,000 people who have to pay very expensive medicines, without considering the terrible quality of their lives. At least the Senate of the Republic for July 22 can recognize them this serious disability and remember them. [[Applause from Senator Romani Paolo.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-07-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-850.ana.u62	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-07-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-850.ana.u63	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-07-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-850.ana.u64	FLORIS (FI-PdL XVII). Mr President, as my colleague Mr Bernini said earlier, I am sorry that you use the power you have in this House to limit a debate that we would like as quietly as possible on the key issue of this stage of the legislature. However, since I have to make a proposal to change the schedule of proceedings, I would nevertheless have intervened to urge the motion tabled by me as the first signatory, but with the signature of many other colleagues, concerning the writer Grazia Deledda who, as you know, is Nobel Prize winner (awarded in 1926 and delivered in 1927). This year, it's been 90 years since Deledda withdrew her Nobel Prize. It is regrettable that the only Italian woman awarded the Nobel Prize for Literature is not given enough time - I will say this when the motion is debated in this House - for teaching in our schools, especially in middle and high schools, which is why I believe that I must strongly support it in this House, as Mr Centemero and many other colleagues in the House have done by voting unanimously on a similar motion. I would like this motion to be tabled before 4 August so that it can then be discussed in this House and, of course, presented to the Minister.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-07-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-850.ana.u65	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-07-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-850.ana.u66	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-07-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-850.ana.u67	MALAN (FI-PdL XVII). Mr President, I would like to remind you that the measure on ius solo has not been dealt with in the Commission, unless we want to talk about it, but the Constitution says 'examinated', and the parliamentary examination or it is a clown - and this should not be the case for us - or it must be an examination by vote. Three of the amendments tabled - few or so - have been voted on, devoting one hour to this examination in the last fifteen months. That is a good reason to justify the proposal that I am preparing to make. Second point: the Anti-Mafia Code Act is causing a number of very authoritative interventions that inform us of the possible danger that they represent the rules contained in it both for the fight against the mafia and for the fight against corruption. This has been said by very authoritative exponents with great experience in the judiciary, in the study of law, in the study of the Constitution. Faced with the fact that the European Parliament is dedicating a session to the issue of immigration - someone curiously believes it is unrelated to the issue of citizenship for immigrants; Senator Mirabelli says that it has nothing to do with it: obviously the law on ius soli is dedicated only to Italians who, for some reason, do not have Italian citizenship - that the Italian Government threatens to close the ports, that they are in conflict with Europe and that it is proposed to the European Union to take drastic measures against Poland, the Czech Republic and Hungary, here we want to anticipate this absurd law that encourages a further increase in the already fearful number of people who come on our coasts, taken through NGOs, and sometimes without this means, by the Command of our Coast Guard, demonstrating a total insensitivity and also a certain inconsistency: we go to Europe to ask one thing and then in Parliament to speed up in order to obtain another. My proposal, Mr President, is to postpone in September the examination of both the measures I have mentioned both for a matter of substance and because I have the impression that someone wants to use these two measures as instruments to put the Government in difficulty. We must approve the laws if they are good and reject them if they are bad, and not put them on the calendar to put the government in trouble: I am very happy that the government is in trouble, but this must not be the way in which it is put in trouble. We must put him in trouble, if necessary, with regard to his policies, but not with draft laws which are of no urgency and which have not been examined in the Commission - I am referring to the law on citizenship - or which are denounced by the most important representatives of the fight against corruption and organised crime.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-07-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-850.ana.u68	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-07-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-850.ana.u69	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-07-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-850.ana.u70	Mr Giovanardi (PL-Id) Mr President, my proposal is to anticipate two measures that seem to me to have a general consensus: the draft law on the aggregation of the Municipality of Sappada to the Region of Friuli-Venezia Giulia, a response that those populations await from the institutions, and the law on the Italian language of signs. This is also to take time with respect to an important issue. When I hear President Luciano Violante (I was Vice-President of the House when he was President) define today in an interview "political infantilism" and "incivility of law" the text that we are going to vote on, I have something to worry about. In fact, I do not understand that Luciano Violante, in his history, was tender with the mafia or that one could not consider one who fought in the front line the mafia phenomena. As they say, thinking wrong is a sin, but almost always it is taken. So I have to think that in Pirandelli's Sicily (they always mention very refined minds when it comes to mafia), there is not some very refined mind that thinks, as has been pointed out by all these scholars and the President of the Constitutional Court, that extending also to other matters and provisions for the contrast to the mafia and special laws, also collapses the special measures against the mafia, that it is right that they remain. It is a reflection that I entrust to this House, because the very refined minds, when they operate, can achieve their objectives even by playing with the good faith of those who believe instead of doing legal operations which, however - I remember - have been branded as political infantilism and incivilization of the law and should weigh on the conscience of all.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-07-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-850.ana.u71	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-07-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-850.ana.u72	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-07-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-850.ana.u73	MANDELLI (FI-PdL XVII). Mr President, my proposal to amend the timetable is based on the fact that we are living in the Senate: we are discussing the measure on vaccines, so we have set a beacon on health. On 26 October, I presented an act of inspection union that lit a light on the serious public health emergency represented by the phenomenon of bacterial resistance to antibiotics, which are constantly increasing and which are being dealt with by various subjects, from the World Health Organization to the G8. This is, therefore, a topic on the agenda and I thought that we could find a space to discuss this motion of mine in one of the Tuesday sessions dedicated to the discussion of these issues, taking advantage of the fact that at the moment we are dealing with a health issue so important and particularly felt by the country, also to launch one of the main alarms of world health: in 2050 we will die more of infections than tumors. We could therefore take advantage of this moment to schedule this motion at Tuesday's sitting, which I think, when we are dealing with such an important health issue, could have the importance, importance and resonance that are the first effect of a debate in Parliament: to warn citizens that this is a serious problem not only for Italy and for Europe but for the world. My proposal is therefore to schedule for Tuesday motion 674, published on 26 October 2016. [[Applause from Senator Rizzotti.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-07-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-850.ana.u74	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-07-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-850.ana.u75	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-07-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-850.ana.u76	MAURO Mario (FI-PdL XVII). Mr President, my proposal is based on a reminder already made by my fellow Members, Mr Quagliariello and Mr Giovanardi, which reflects a hasty passage on the condition of a measure which the Committee on Constitutional Affairs is returning to the House and which has been included in the timetable for the next few days. I am referring to the measure on the so-called sign language, a bill which had been brought back to the Commission because of obvious and objective problems of coverage and coordination between the ministries which relate to the nature of the measure itself. In the Commission, in order to achieve a result that can be spent in media terms, with the support of the Budget Commission, the Democratic Party has decided to empty the measure of the economic measure and to transform it into a law of framework of rights. [[Applause from Senator Rizzotti. Senator Russo's comments.]] It is more than legitimate and I welcome this initiative; there is only one small problem. Without money, that provision becomes the denial of a right, because if it applies to the need to make use of sign language to children in schools, it grabs the problem of having to recreate the special classes, and therefore makes steps back to our educational system, preventing in fact that right can be enjoyed by more than one person at a time. For this reason, I believe that, instead of obtusely linking up that measure or that on the ius soli, which are not ready for debate in this House, it is better for us to proceed with an objective comparison with the President-in-Office of the Council on the disastrous results that our Government is collecting in the international context and in particular in the European context, where we are making ourselves say no to everyone (France, Spain and Austria) with disastrous results for the prospects of our country. [[Applause from Senator Rizzotti.]] Hundreds of thousands (LN-Aut). I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-07-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-850.ana.u77	You have the right to do so. D'ALI' (FI-PdL XVII). I asked to speak long before Senator Mauro. MALAN (FI-PdL XVII). I want to do it on Senator Mario Mauro's proposal, which I couldn't hear. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator D'Alì, I hadn't been notified, but now I'm giving you the floor. PALMA (FI-PdL XVII). I asked to intervene, too. The point of order is one thing; have the goodness to listen to me. Hundreds of thousands (LN-Aut). Mr President, let Senator D'Alì speak, he raised his hand before me. PALMA (FI-PdL XVII). I had previously spoken on the Rules of Procedure, but now I would like to make a proposal to amend the timetable. MALAN (FI-PdL XVII). I also want to speak on the proposal made. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator Hundred... Senator Hundrednaire, sorry, this is the second time I've made a mistake; I warn you that Senator Stefani has already intervened and that you as a Parent may speak about all the proposed changes to the calendar.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-07-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-850.ana.u78	No, I have to make a proposal; I have a right like all other senators, President "Grassi."
ParlaMint-IT_2017-07-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-850.ana.u79	I wanted to tell you, Senator Centinario, that Senator Stefani has already made a proposal, so you have two minutes, just like everyone else, to make your proposal.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-07-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-850.ana.u80	Hundreds of thousands (LN-Aut). In fact, Mr President, in my two minutes I wanted to ask you, fishing in the bin bin, how many minutes I would have been entitled to, since some have been entitled to ten minutes, others to two, others to four, others to five; Centinario has gone out number two, so that's fine. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group]] President, in my two minutes, since you gave me the floor as a Parent Company earlier, I ask you the following question: why did you give me the floor as a Parent Company and not as a Senator "Hundreds," as you say? Why, if you gave me the floor as the Parent Company today, did you not give it to me a few days ago, even though I had asked for it six times when we incardinated in the Chamber alone? So, if you're gonna give me the floor as a parent today, like you said, you were gonna give it to me a few days ago. He had to give it to me!
ParlaMint-IT_2017-07-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-850.ana.u81	Senator Centinario, I don't want to continue past controversy. The President of the Torrisi Commission had asked for the floor, and I had not noticed that you had requested it before. Your reactions, however, have been seen by all. I don't want to make unnecessary controversy, and I don't want to go back on the past.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-07-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-850.ana.u82	No, President, even the footage shows that I had asked for the floor before Senator Torrisi and before you gave the floor to Senator Torrisi. However, Mr President, unfortunately you - alas - manage this House as if it were the living room of your home and, as a result, reduce the time taken by the senators and decide which senators take part and which ones do not. I therefore make two proposals at this point and they are the same as I made at the Conference of the Leaders, but you did not want to listen to me either: the first proposal, ladies and gentlemen, was that the Senators of the Democratic Party had a meeting and asked us, rightly, to stop the work of this House in advance. I said, Mr President, that the debate on the timetable would last so long, probably too long, and you saw how long it lasted. As a result, all the provision on the Anti-Mafia Code, instead of treating it in sharps and bites quickly this evening, I had proposed to send it back directly to tomorrow morning, finishing it at the speed of light. But she's a smartass and she wanted to move on. Secondly, given and considering that you are like the magician Oronzo, you foresee the future and already know that there will be parliamentary obstructionism, you have already planned to quote the timing of the debate on the ius soli. But who said there would be parliamentary obstruction? Who said that there will be tens if not hundreds, as someone said, of senators who will intervene on the ius soli? You've decided to contingency everything. Keep it up, I'll do it. We propose that quota should be abolished because we do not need a quota at the moment, we need common sense, which you do not have in the management of this House. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-07-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-850.ana.u83	Senator Centinario, as you know, the need to quote the times was born in the Conference of the Leaders group from the request of a group, which was not yours, which correctly announced what the Group's intention on a given measure was. You know that because you were present, so you don't change the reality of things.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-07-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-850.ana.u84	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-07-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-850.ana.u85	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-07-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-850.ana.u86	D'ALI' (FI-PdL XVII). Mr President, I would ask you to include in tomorrow's calendar the hearing of the Minister for Economic Affairs Padoan on a very serious matter, which my colleagues may have learned from the press but without giving him the necessary importance, which occurred last week when the Sicilian Court of Auditors rejected for the first time in the history of Sicilian regional autonomy, so from 1946 until today, the budget prepared by the Region. Since it is a fact that has substantial political and economic importance over the entire country, Mr President, I would ask you that tomorrow the Minister for Economic Affairs comes to report on what happened and above all on the reasons why the Sicilian Region budget was drawn up a few months away by a flagrant convention, by a flagrant economic agreement between the national government and the regional government itself. Yesterday, the Court of Auditors said that the budget was bogus. Moreover, when a budget is not certified, whether it is a auditing company or a very important body such as the Court of Auditors, it is clear that the budget in question is false. In fact, it is because some posts are missing that would have further highlighted its tragicity. We learn therefore that the Sicilians have 8 billion debts, approximately 1,500 euros per inhabitant, and that this Government has increased in five years of 41 percent the liabilities of the Sicilian Region. I believe that this is an issue of interest to the entire nation for the influence it can have on the budget and on national politics, since the region could be immediately commissary. In fact, if this week were confirmed the judgment of negativity and non-procedibility for that budget, it would immediately be necessary to commissioner the Sicilian Region and it would be a sort of historical nemesis on the myriad of commissioners with which this regional government has gratified the society and the Sicilian institutions. PALMA (FI-PdL XVII). I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-07-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-850.ana.u87	Senator Palma, do you wish to speak on the schedule of proceedings? Because you asked first to speak on the order of business and then on a point of order.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-07-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-850.ana.u88	In the meantime, I would like to be clear, because its reconstruction is not in line with the facts. I have asked to speak on a proposal to amend the timetable. I then asked to speak on a point of order.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-07-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-850.ana.u89	He has already spoken on the point of order.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-07-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-850.ana.u90	PALMA (FI-PdL XVII). One thing doesn't rule out the other. I would also like to say, Mr President, that as soon as I have finished speaking on the timetable, I will probably ask you to talk about the Rules of Procedure. I have already mentioned that precedent of the beginning of your presidency here in the Senate, because I remember it well. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Are you intervening on a proposal to change the calendar or on the previous one in the Senate? PALMA (FI-PdL XVII). I just wanted to remind you, Mr President, that I remember that precedent well, because, at the end of a heated debate, a non-existent sanction was imposed on me, which was then unanimously revoked. Having said that, Mr President, it seems to me that a motion on nuclear power was scheduled for the afternoon sitting on 18 July, but I believe that this motion, in the light of what is happening in the world, deserves a strong anticipation. I therefore believe that it should be dealt with as soon as possible. Consequently, my proposal to amend the timetable is to give priority to the motion on nuclear power, including its discussion at the end of the discussion of the anti-mafia code measure.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-07-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-850.ana.u91	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-07-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-850.ana.u92	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-07-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-850.ana.u93	WHITE (AP-CpE-NCD). Mr President, I am a passer-by, and normally I like to put one foot in front of the other in order to get to the goal. You will have understood very well - so I appeal to your wisdom - that in this way we will no longer be able to put one step ahead of the other. It will soon be 7 p.m. and we will have to stop our work, because this is what a majority group has asked for for for its own meeting, and we will not be able to vote on the timetable, nor will we be able to approve the anti-mafia code - as you and the majority understand it. So, Mr President, please, we have a month ahead of us full of measures, including very delicate decisions that are due to expire. If in this House, through its wise management, we do not restore a minimum of serenity and the ability to carry out the various measures, we will make holes in the water and we absolutely cannot afford it. The proposal I make to you, Mr President, is as follows. In the meantime, this evening, let us vote on the timetable, let us conclude the sitting and tomorrow we shall do what is planned, namely the examination of the draft law amending the Code of Anti-Mafia Laws. We leave time for the Commissions to do their work and express our views on the amendments to the measure on vaccines, since it is a decree-law that expires and we leave Minister Minniti to report to the House at 6.30 p.m. tomorrow. Afterwards we organize a new Conference of the Leaders, in which, calmed the souls, we can find together a possible solution for the Assembly, to deal with the various decrees-laws and, possibly, the provision that is also dear to the Democratic Party, that is, the bill on citizenship. [[Applause from the AP-CpE-NCD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-07-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-850.ana.u94	It seems to me a reasonable proposal, which also coincides with that of Senator Centinario. [[Senator Centinario's comments.]] Senator Centinario, I gave you a note that coincides with that... [[Repented comments by Senator Centinario]] As President, I am obliged to make an attempt to move forward in the order of business, according to what the Conference of Leaders has established. If we fail, we still find a way to move forward in a serene and wise way, as Senator Bianconi says, but not as she says. [[Applause from Senator Carraro.]] In the meantime, we shall vote on the calendar.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-07-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-850.ana.u95	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-07-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-850.ana.u96	Senator D'Ambrosio Lettieri, what do you want to intervene on? We are in the process of voting.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-07-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-850.ana.u97	D'Ambrosio Lettieri (GAL (DI, GS, MPL, RI)). I intend to speak on the timetable, Mr President.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-07-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-850.ana.u98	We have concluded the speeches on the timetable. [[Senator Calderoli's comments.]] Senator Calderoli, we have said that we only vote on the calendar and then we postpone it: I think I have made myself quite clear. Senator D'Ambrosio Lettieri, so what do you want to intervene on? We have concluded our speeches on the proposed changes to the timetable. D'Ambrosio Lettieri (GAL (DI, GS, MPL, RI)). Mr President, I have been asking for a quarter of an hour. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Who detected your request to speak? D'Ambrosio Lettieri (GAL (DI, GS, MPL, RI)). Mr President, then you take responsibility... I take responsibility, because I have the cooperation of the Offices and Secretary Senators and no one has told me that he has asked to speak for 15 minutes. D'Ambrosio Lettieri (GAL (DI, GS, MPL, RI)). Very well, however, know that I have asked to intervene for a quarter of an hour. PRESIDENT. - The debate is If Secretary Senators confirm this reality, which has not been reported to me, you have reason to intervene. That is the point, but we do not give all the responsibilities to the Presidency. Senator D'Ambrosio Lettieri, may speak for two minutes to illustrate his proposal to amend the calendar.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-07-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-850.ana.u99	Mr President, you have the responsibility, but let me tell you that you also have the privilege of conducting this House.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-07-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-850.ana.u100	It is more a burden than a privilege.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-07-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-850.ana.u101	D'Ambrosio Lettieri (GAL (DI, GS, MPL, RI)). Mr President, allow me to give the second office of the State the prestige that we all recognize, and which you express when you are sitting on the bench of the Senate Presidency. Mr President, I realize that it is difficult to govern this House when there are many Members who speak. However, have the kindness to agree on a consideration. Finally - and I stress this - Senator Bianconi has also brought elements and reflections that have contributed to achieving an objective, which is not to create, in an inopportune and irresponsible way, the conditions for a contestation, an opposition or an irresponsible obstruction: it is the exact opposite. Mr President, there are many essaysists and opinionists who have spoken about the noble art of opposition in this House, in which concepts are formed on the basis of a high, mature, respectful and responsible confrontation. On the basis of this, I use 30 seconds to make my polite proposal, in the conviction that I am expressing in this House, not an a priori dissent to the calendarization of the measure on ius soli, but a position of support for proposals consistent with the political sensibilities that belong to my person, according to the duties inherent in the exercise of my function. I refer to three articles of the Constitution: Articles 29, 30 and 31, which refer to the value of the family. At a time when the family is in danger of losing its role as the first social protection net at zero cost and the welfare policy is strongly affected by the conditions of crisis, I ask that the family motion that I tabled last December be included in the agenda. With this motion it is intended to commit the Government to assign a renewed attention to a constitutionally well-identified institute and considered that it suffers from the very serious crisis situation of the economy of our country, with implications also of a demographic nature, referring above all to the birth rate. It is therefore desirable for this House to give renewed attention to this issue. [[Applause from the GAL Groups (DI, GS, MPL, RI), ALA-SCCLP and Senator Rizzotti.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-07-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-850.ana.u102	We shall proceed with the votes. I put to the vote the proposal to amend the agenda of the Assembly to postpone the debate on the ratification of the Economic and Trade Agreement between the European Union and Canada (CETA), tabled by Senator De Petris. It's not approved. DE PETRIS (Misto-SI-SEL). Let's ask for a rehearsal. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I order the doors closed. We proceed to counter-test by electronic procedure. It's not approved. I put to the vote the proposal to modify the schedule of the Assembly's work aimed at including the discussion of the bill on the detachment of the Municipality of Sappada from Veneto and its aggregation to Friuli-Venezia Giulia, advanced by Senators Bellot and Piccoli. It's not approved. CALIENDO (FI-PdL XVII). Let's ask for a rehearsal. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I order the doors closed. We proceed to counter-test by electronic procedure. It's approved. [[Applause from the groups FI-PdL XVII, ALA-SCCLP and LN-Aut]] The measure will be inserted in the queue to the calendar of the intense activities of the week. CROSIUM (LN-Aut). Today! PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. There was no specific request. [[Comments of Senator Falanga]] It will be included in the agenda and, if necessary, we will convene the Conference of Leaders.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-07-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-850.ana.u103	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-07-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-850.ana.u104	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-07-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-850.ana.u105	BELLOT (Misto-Fare!). Mr President, I think the request was very clear: to include the measure on the Municipality of Sappada at the end of the examination of the one on the anti-mafia code, if this is discussed; otherwise, if it is postponed, the one on Sappada is immediately incardinated. Therefore, if the anti-mafia code measure were to be postponed, delayed or modified in its timetable, the one on Sappada should be the first to be examined by the Assembly. That was the request, Mr President. [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-07-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-850.ana.u106	Therefore, in the event of a postponement of the anti-mafia code provision, it asks that the one on the Municipality of Sappada be examined; but we still have to vote on the postponement of the bill on the anti-mafia code. BELLOT (Misto-Fare!). We ask that the bill on the Municipality of Sappada be the first useful argument after the provision on the anti-mafia code, both in case you vote it and in case you send it back. PRESIDENT. - The debate is We are voting on the proposal to amend Senator Bellot's calendar to include the discussion of the bill on the Municipality of Sappada immediately after the anti-mafia code. VOICES FROM THE FI-PdL GROUP XVII and LN-Aut. No! No! PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Don't you want to vote?
ParlaMint-IT_2017-07-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-850.ana.u107	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-07-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-850.ana.u108	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-07-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-850.ana.u109	SMALL (FI-PdL XVII). Mr President, with regard to the draft law on the Municipality of Sappada, my proposal was to anticipate its treatment - and therefore to conclude its process, because this is the case - with respect to every other measure in itinere: therefore immediately. [[Applause from the FI-PdL XVII and LN-Aut groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-07-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-850.ana.u110	We'll check it out. Because there's a different proposal...
ParlaMint-IT_2017-07-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-850.ana.u111	[[Comments from the LN-Aut Group.]] We vote, the House is sovereign. MALAN (FI-PdL XVII). We've already voted! PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. The Assembly voted and approved the inclusion in the timetable of the measure on the Municipality of Sappada; Senator Piccoli asked for its immediate inclusion, while Senator Bellot asked for its inclusion after that on the anti-mafia code, so we must vote. [[Comments from FI-PdL XVII and LN-Aut Groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-07-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-850.ana.u112	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-07-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-850.ana.u113	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-07-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-850.ana.u114	Mr Calderoli (LN-Aut). Excuse me, President, we have voted on the calendars a mountain of times for four years: the inclusion is there or is not there. We are not talking about a suspensive, so first we vote on the suspensive and then the duration of the suspension. The Assembly of the Senate has voted to include the measure on the calendar of the Municipality of Sappada: it is inserted without terms. The Senate cannot go back to voting on an issue on which it has already voted. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group and Senator Simeoni.]] Otherwise, it's really about turning around in the handle. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group and Senator Rizzotti.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-07-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-850.ana.u115	The alternatives are Senator Piccoli's proposal...
ParlaMint-IT_2017-07-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-850.ana.u116	[[Senator Calderoli's comments.]] When we vote on the inclusion of draft legislation in the calendar without specifying, then we have to vote as, when and where to insert them in the calendar.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-07-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-850.ana.u117	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-07-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-850.ana.u118	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-07-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-850.ana.u119	Mr Giovanardi (PL-Id) Mr President, I have asked for the floor on this very subject, because I made the proposal and I just went to see the report: I had asked first to include the measures that do not cause disagreements and disagreements, among which I indicated the one on the Municipality of Sappada, on which there is essentially unanimity, so that it could be placed on the agenda before those who are divided. That was my request. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I have the report here.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-07-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-850.ana.u120	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-07-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-850.ana.u121	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-07-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-850.ana.u122	WAR (Art. 1-MDP). Mr President, if we all talk a little slower, you can hear it, because you don't even know what's going on here. You put the proposal for inclusion on the calendar to the vote: whatever Members had said or intended to say, that vote was about what you said, namely the inclusion in the calendar. After that, if we want to vote on any other proposal, we cancel the previous proposal and make a new one or we overlap it in detail, but we certainly cannot consider a vote that we did in a certain way as acquired under another title. Sounds banal to me.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-07-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-850.ana.u123	There are two different proposals according to the Report. First we vote on the inclusion, then we vote between the two proposals, which are different. I read from the Report that Senator Bellot's proposal is to continue the discussion of the bill on the Municipality of Sappada at the end of the vote on the laws amending the anti-mafia code. Senator Piccoli, on the other hand, proposes to anticipate the conclusion of the discussion of this topic with respect to the continuation of the work of this afternoon. So there is a preliminary vote on the inclusion and a vote on the two proposals. That's what the report says. [[Comments from the FI-PdL XVII Group]] The first vote on inclusion is therefore correct. It is no turning back. CANDIANI (LN-Aut). Baby! Baby! PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Please, let's not give any suggestions to other senators. [[Protests from the LN-Aut Group]] These are the two proposals on which we will have to vote. As it is previous, I will put to the vote first the proposal of Senator Bellot to continue the discussion of the bill on Sappada at the end of the vote of the provision on the anti-mafia code.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-07-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-850.ana.u124	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-07-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-850.ana.u125	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-07-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-850.ana.u126	BELLOT (Misto-Fare!). Mr President, I think it is correct to repeat what I have said. I said quite clearly: in the event that the anti-mafia code measure, given the problems that exist, is closed (there are few articles and few amendments, but I do not think there is the will of this House), the first measure in question is the one on Sappada. Nothing changes at all, then. The bill on the Municipality of Sappada must be - this is my interpretation - carried out if the provision on the anti-mafia code is postponed and you move on to another topic or where it ends. The first measure is Sappada. [[Applause from Senator Rizzotti.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-07-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-850.ana.u127	Very clear, Senator. Between the two proposals we vote... [[Senator Maran's protests]] I had the inclusion voted; if the outcome had been negative we would not have gone to the second vote. [[Senator Caliendo's protests.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-07-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-850.ana.u128	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-07-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-850.ana.u129	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-07-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-850.ana.u130	ROMANI Paolo (FI-PdL XVII). Mr President, the misunderstanding may be due to the fact that you said 'we vote for inclusion', perhaps at that time you did not remember that there were two proposals for inclusion. But we usually vote... president. But how do you attribute this intention to me? ROMANI Paolo (FI-PdL XVII). I'm trying to figure something out. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. We've checked it out. What are you saying? That I didn't know what I was voting for? ROMANI Paolo (FI-PdL XVII). We have verified that two requests have been made: the first, that of Senator Piccoli... PRESIDENT. That was the second one. ROMANI Paolo (FI-PdL XVII). The first, in which Senator Piccoli asked to immediately insert the provision on Sappada; the second is that of Senator Giovanardi, who was the first ever. So we vote on requests for change to the calendar, not on inclusion in generic terms. [[Comments of Senator Giovanardi]] Senator Giovanardi, I'm saying the same thing. The vote had obviously referred to the first proposal to amend the timetable, for the inclusion of the measure in the first point, as Giovanardi asked, not the inclusion in general terms. [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-07-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-850.ana.u131	Senator Giovanardi made the third request. The first proposal was made by Senator Bellot, who spoke after Senator De Petris. Mr Giovanardi (PL-Id) It was before! PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. That's right. After voting on the inclusion of the bill in the calendar, I now put to the vote the proposal to discuss the bill on the Municipality of Sappada after the examination of the bill amending the code of anti-mafia laws, made by Senator Bellot. It's approved. FALANGA (ALA-SCLP). Wait a minute. We don't understand. What did we vote for? BULGARRELLI (M5S). You're not capable of holding this House! PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. We voted on Senator Bellot's proposal to insert the bill on Sappada after the one on the anti-mafia code. If the anti-mafia measure is postponed, it remains first. We still have to vote on the anti-mafia measure. [[Ironic applause from the LN-Aut Group.]] The vote was taken and the Senate approved.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-07-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-850.ana.u132	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-07-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-850.ana.u133	Excuse me, there is a vote that has been taken. Senator Romani, we can't go on like this.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-07-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-850.ana.u134	I call Mr Romani. ROMANI Paolo (FI-PdL XVII). Mr President, if we have now voted on Senator Bellot's proposal, what did we vote on earlier, since you claimed that Senator Bellot's proposal was the first? PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. The insertion. ROMANI Paolo (FI-PdL XVII). Excuse me, what was the previous vote about?
ParlaMint-IT_2017-07-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-850.ana.u135	It's so clear. The previous vote, between two conflicting proposals on the date of inclusion and place in the calendar, concerned general inclusion. Once approved the insertion is changed to the specification; and the insertion was approved according to the proposal of Senator Bellot. I still have the counterproof. I order the doors closed. We proceed to counter-test by electronic procedure. It's approved. At this point, Senator Piccoli's other proposal is precluded. I now put to the vote the proposal to amend the agenda of the Assembly to postpone the debate on the draft law on the anti-mafia code and citizenship. [[Comments from the FI-PdL XVII Group]] PALMA (FI-PdL XVII). Mr President, these are two different things! PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. That's two referrals. All right, let's vote them separately. [[Ironic applause from the M5S Group.]] I put to the vote the proposal to amend the timetable of the Assembly's proceedings to postpone the discussion of the draft amending law to the Code of Anti-Mafia Laws. It's not approved. BERNINI (FI-PdL XVII). Let's ask for a rehearsal. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I order the doors closed. We proceed to counter-test by electronic procedure. It's not approved. I put to the vote the proposal to amend the timetable for the work of the Assembly to postpone the debate on the draft law on citizenship. It's not approved. Gasparri (FI-PdL XVII). Let's ask for a rehearsal. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I order the doors closed. We proceed to counter-test by electronic procedure. It's not approved. We shall now proceed to the vote on the proposal to pre-empt the discussion of the draft law on the Italian sign language to that of other draft legislation on the calendar. Is that your proposal, Senator Quagliariello? Mr Quagliarello (FL-Id-PL, PLI)). Yes, Mr. President. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I therefore put to the vote the proposal to amend the timetable of the Assembly's proceedings to anticipate the discussion of the draft law on the Italian sign language. It's not approved. Gasparri (FI-PdL XVII). Let's ask for a rehearsal. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I think it's obvious, there's no need for counterproof. Before you had to, now you didn't. We shall now proceed to the vote on the proposal to bring forward the motions for resolutions on the proliferation of nuclear weapons. [[Comments from the FI-PdL XVII Group.]] It has been asked in this general way. The nuclear motions are already scheduled for 18 July. Then we will vote on when this debate comes forward. The proposal is from Senator Palma.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-07-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-850.ana.u136	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-07-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-850.ana.u137	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-07-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-850.ana.u138	PALMA (FI-PdL XVII). Mr President, for reasons of microphones, it has not been heard. Advance for me means: immediate treatment.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-07-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-850.ana.u139	All right. Anticipio means immediate treatment of motions on the proliferation of nuclear weapons. I therefore put to the vote the proposal to amend the timetable for the work of the Assembly to anticipate the debate on the motions on the proliferation of nuclear weapons, put forward by Senator Palma. It's not approved. It is clear to me that there is no need for counterproof. We shall now proceed to the vote on the proposal to include motions for resolutions. More motions were requested. We generally vote on the inclusion of further motions in the calendar. Mr Rizzotti (FI-PdL XVII). No! PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. We have always voted this way; after that we will vote on the inclusion of the individual motions required. I put to the vote the proposal to amend the timetable for the Assembly's work to include further motions for resolutions. It's not approved. ROMANI Paolo (FI-PdL XVII). Let's ask for a rehearsal. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I order the doors closed. We proceed to counter-test by electronic procedure. It's not approved. I put to the vote the proposal to change the calendar of the Assembly's work to include an information of Minister Padoan, made by Senator D'Alì. It's not approved. ROMANI Paolo (FI-PdL XVII). Let's ask for a rehearsal. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I order the doors closed. We proceed to counter-test by electronic procedure. It's not approved. We have thus exhausted all the votes.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-07-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-850.ana.u140	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-07-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-850.ana.u141	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-07-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-850.ana.u142	MALAN (FI-PdL XVII). There was the proposal of Senator Mario Mauro, who was among the last to speak, to have a debate on the whole issue of immigration and foreign policy. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. An immigration debate? We put in billings or motions. MALAN (FI-PdL XVII). In fact, that is another thing: it is a debate. I think Senator Mauro can express that better than I can.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-07-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-850.ana.u143	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-07-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-850.ana.u144	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-07-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-850.ana.u145	Mr Calderoli (LN-Aut). Mr President, I would like to remind you of the proposal by Senator Centinario and Senator Bianconi that the agenda should be closed. We have to vote on that too. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. There was no dissent.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-07-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-850.ana.u146	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-07-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-850.ana.u147	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-07-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-850.ana.u148	DE PETRIS (Misto-SI-SEL). Mr President, I asked for a little time. I have made many requests for changes to the timetable, and you, as you know, but I remind everyone, each time you had the general inclusion of measures or motions voted on. That's what it's always been like. This is the first time that there was an attempt to say that it was inserted exactly at the minute or at the specific time. This serves to remember and bring back in order the story of how we do the changes of the calendar. I say this about the previous vote on Sappada.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-07-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-850.ana.u149	The problem is that the one about Sappada was the only bill and therefore its proposal to include it in the calendar was voted on. Usually there are more bills. Then there were problems with two different proposals for inclusion, but it seems to me that everything has been done according to the rules and that the House has been sovereign - as usual - and has voted. I do not think there is any disagreement about the proposal to postpone the sitting. Senator Calderoli says we have to vote. Contradictive enemy, I've learned that too. In my policy formation, which I am doing through this House, I have learned that, in contradictive terms, I can postpone the sitting. If anyone disagrees, say so, raise your hand.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-07-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-850.ana.u150	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-07-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-850.ana.u151	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-07-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-850.ana.u152	MAURO Mario (FI-PdL XVII). Mr. President, I just wanted to understand... Colleagues, do not stray because there may be a request for a vote. Please, Senator Mauro, do you disagree? MAURO Mario (FI-PdL XVII). Mr President, I would just like to understand whether, since we are not contradictory to the proposal made by Mr Bianconi and Mr Centinario, we take for granted not only the closure of the sitting but, after the new calendar, a re-convocation of the group leader, as I understand it. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Absolutely not. MAURO Mario (FI-PdL XVII). We have to vote, then. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I said: if anyone does not agree, we must vote, but if no one contradicts, as has always been the case, we do not vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-07-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-850.ana.u153	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-07-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-850.ana.u154	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-07-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-850.ana.u155	SANTANGELO (M5S). Mr President, the sitting will be interrupted. That is when I oppose it, so we vote and do it first.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-07-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-850.ana.u156	I put to the vote the proposal to postpone work until tomorrow morning. It's approved. SANTANGELO (M5S). Let's ask for a rehearsal. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I order the doors closed. We proceed to counter-test by electronic procedure. It's approved.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-07-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-850.ana.u157	The motions, questions and questions received by the Presidency will be published in Annex B to today's report.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-07-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-850.ana.u158	The Senate will meet again tomorrow, Wednesday, July 5, in two public sessions, the first at 9.30 a.m. and the second at 16.30, with the following agenda: (See agenda) The sitting was closed at 18.58.
