ParlaMint-IT_2017-09-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-887.ana.u1	The sitting is open (9.31 a.m.). The Minutes shall be read. Mr Frevezzi, Secretary, read the Minutes of the afternoon sitting of the previous day.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-09-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-887.ana.u2	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-09-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-887.ana.u3	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-09-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-887.ana.u4	Zuffada (FI-PdL XVII). Mr President, I would like to ask for the vote on the Minutes, subject to a quorum check. Verification of quorum
ParlaMint-IT_2017-09-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-887.ana.u5	I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators, by electronic procedure. (The request is supported). I therefore call on the senators to make their presence known by electronic means. (Follows the quorum check.) The Senate has a quorum. Resumption of the debate on the Minutes I put the Minutes to the vote. It's approved.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-09-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-887.ana.u6	The list of senators on leave and absent on assignment received from the Senate, as well as further communications to the Assembly, will be published in Annex B to today's Minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-09-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-887.ana.u7	I would warn you that qualified votes can be taken in the course of today's sitting by electronic means. Therefore, from this moment the period of 20 minutes from the notice provided for in Article 119, paragraph 1, of the Regulation (9:34 hours) begins.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-09-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-887.ana.u8	The next item is the continuation of the debate on draft law No 2541, already approved by the House of Deputies in a text resulting from the unification of the draft own-initiative law of the Realacci Members and others; Thirds and others.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-09-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-887.ana.u9	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-09-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-887.ana.u10	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-09-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-887.ana.u11	DE PETRIS (Misto-SI-SEL). Mr President, after a very long and tormented gestation, which has passed through four laws, the draft law of parliamentary initiative on small towns arrives at the final vote in this House. It is certainly a measure that represents a sign of novelty for the policies of the territory and, addressing me also to the Government, I say that it would certainly have deserved more attention from the governments that have succeeded to the leadership of the country in the many years past. In the small Italian municipalities there are about 10 million people who, however, manage about 50 percent of the territory. 72 percent of the municipalities, in fact, have fewer than 5,000 inhabitants, yet they represent a very important reality for the protection of the environment, agriculture and cultural heritage. Suffice it to say that 16 percent of museums, monuments and archaeological sites are located in them and most of our products are produced with a recognised designation of origin. The identity of the country is constituted by the thousand bell towers; a reality, however, questioned by the phenomenon of depopulation, which knows no rest and puts at risk the very survival of the exceptional cultural diversity, true wealth of our country. The mayor of Pollica, Angelo Vassallo, tragically assassinated in the exercise of his duties because of his environmentalist battles and the defense of the territory, had well understood the risk inherent in the abandonment of the territory. Stop the hemorrhaging of young people, reverse the tendency to abandon minor historical centers, restore vitality and production to abandoned agricultural land, provide incentives for the tourist revival of small villages (which for us would be an immense wealth), enhance the historical and religious itineraries, which pass through the internal areas; these are some of the bets that could really change the country's development model. The important thing is to understand which direction Italy must go. If you want to enhance the itineraries in Italy and the sustainable development of small towns, or continue on the road of the consumption of soil and of those large works that have generated, too often, cathedrals in the desert. The draft law that we are preparing to vote on addresses some of the fundamental problems that characterize the difficulties of survival of the small municipalities. I regret, however, that we should have devoted more space to mountain issues. Even if the legislature is coming to an end, we will have to return to this issue and devote a lot of work to it. Among the novelties introduced by the draft law, I would like to stress the possibility of establishing multifunctional centres to manage a plurality of public services and the creation of the Fund for the structural development of small municipalities, which, without much resources, is intended to finance investments for the environment, cultural heritage and the security of infrastructure and buildings. Unfortunately, not with a lot of resources. Of importance also the provisions to facilitate the spread of broadband in order to help to remove the isolation of small municipalities, on which nobody invests because there is no interest from the operators to realize networks for the fast connection, the contract of program between the Ministry of the economic development and the supplier of the postal service in order to promote the reopening of all the disused post offices, the initiatives to promote the consumption and the commercialization of the agricultural and food products coming from the short supply chain and of the agricultural and food products so called useful kilometer and certainly this is a new and interesting definition that I think will find in future application also in measures of other nature. The measures for the recovery of historic centres and the fight against land abandonment are certainly worthwhile, even if they deserved much more financial commitment, while they represent a commendable attempt to reverse a unfortunately rooted trend in the provisions aimed at promoting the dissemination of the daily press and promoting the realization of cultural and cinematographic productions even in small municipalities. On the whole, therefore, it is a measure of common sense, the content of which has certainly been enriched and improved during the long parliamentary gestation, but which, in our opinion, represents only a glimmer of novelty in an overall framework of territorial policies that goes in a different direction. I would like to recall the dead track in which the Executive and the majority deliberately routed the draft law on land use, which is still under examination by the Senate, and the lack of adequate financial commitments, including in the prospects outlined by the DEF, for the hydrogeological recovery of the country and for the fight against climate change. I would also like to remind you of the need to secure our building heritage, starting with the most precious of historic centres, against the seismic risk, and the dramatic consequences that failure to adapt produces in the case of calamitous events, increasing the worrying trend towards depopulation of internal areas. In the opposite direction to what would be necessary is also the government's energy policy, in fact aimed at slowing down the growth of renewable energies that could instead find in small municipalities a prospect of development of absolute importance, as well as disappointing and, in some respects, counterproductive, is the bill on protected natural areas, currently under discussion in the Environment Commission. Therefore, the EUR 15 million per year allocated by this draft law is certainly not enough for the Structural Fund dedicated to small municipalities to reverse an overall framework of territorial policy which does not convince us at all and which brings with it the stigmata of backwardness, certainly not those of the new model of development that would be necessary and urgent to promote, even on the employment front. In announcing therefore the favorable vote of the senators of the Group of Italian Left, I confirm that we will not renounce to press the Government, starting from the next budget law, to enter in the merit, with much other commitment, on the problems that characterize the emergency framework of the national territory, and to propose the guidelines of a new economic policy oriented to the protection and valorization of the extraordinary potential of the widespread network of cultural and environmental goods, a wealth that we cannot afford to neglect again. If we therefore vote in favour of this bill, which finally arrives in port, our initiative and our battle on these issues certainly cannot end here and will resume immediately with the next appointment on the budget law. [[Applause from the Misso-SI-SEL Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-09-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-887.ana.u12	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-09-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-887.ana.u13	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-09-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-887.ana.u14	MORONESE (M5S). Mr President, the process of this bill began in 2014 and since then, especially in the Chamber, an incessant work of listening and confrontation has been carried out by the 5 Star Movement, with meetings of representatives of the various and varied realities that have at heart the destiny of small communities. It is not by chance that after four legislatures in which this law has been stranded, it has been possible today, with the decisive contribution of the 5 Star Movement, to have it approved and we hope of course in the favorable vote. But let's start with the context. When we talk about small municipalities, we refer to 70 percent of Italian municipalities, which have a population of 5,000 or less. These municipalities occupy 54.4 percent of the Italian territory and in them there are 16.6 percent of the total population. It's more than 10 million people. To understand if the bill is moving in the right direction, we should therefore ask ourselves: what are the needs of these local administrations? Small countries certainly do not need large infrastructure projects or super-contracts; they need to reactivate small and medium-sized enterprises, starting with craftsmen and farmers. They need to start from the small things, there is the need for attention to be paid to people and their actual needs. Over the last four years, on the basis of legislation on the containment and rationalisation of public expenditure (the so-called spending review), a drastic linear cut has been made on the system of urban services linked to the administrative management of the territory. We are talking about minimum services, from the health sector to the school sector, to postal and transport services. It is entirely a consequence that this drastic decline in services has led to an increasingly worrying fall in private economic activities. Walking through a small municipality unfortunately only notices of sale and closure of activities are read. The unified text, already approved in the House of Deputies exactly a year ago, on 28 September 2016, aims to provide a response to the abandonment; it seeks to provide tools to start this impressive reconstruction work. It is a unified text shared by all. Surely more could be done if only the government wanted to. Given that, as said, we are talking about a reality that involves 54.4% of the Italian territory, it is clear that, by providing measures that promote its reconstruction, the whole country will benefit from it. With reference to the article, of particular importance are Articles 4 and 5, which provide for the measures necessary for the recovery and redevelopment of historic centers, with particular attention to the issue of static and anti-seismic consolidation of buildings, a topic unfortunately sadly current. The recovery of small villages could in this way also represent an unmissable opportunity to secure the most fragile part of our real estate. The small villages are very often the cradle of traditional products, home to food and wine products with quality brands. These are therefore the areas on which to leverage for the revival of the productive activities of these places and precisely on these aspects are based the contents of Articles 10 and 11; articles that we strongly wanted and finally obtained, articles that concern not only the promotion of products coming from short chain or to useful kilometer, but also measures to favor the direct sale of these products, such as preview within the commercial structures of the spaces dedicated precisely to the products of the territory. Therefore, attention to the community, the real estate and the productive activities. All this is not enough, however, if the small villages remain deprived of the essential services that allow you to fully enjoy the rhythms that only in these places you can experience. Articles 8, 9 and 13 seek precisely to address these shortcomings. We are talking about essential services such as school, transport and the possibility of paying taxes, taxes and taxes. We have managed to include in this measure, in Article 3, the development of historical paths, an important flywheel for the strengthening and development of tourism in these places rich in history and culture. All this with a financing of 3 million euros. The amount of funding provided for in the measure could certainly be greater, with a little more courage, especially from the Government. Other proposals that had been made by the 5 Star Movement and beyond could have been included. There are still gaps in the text: for example, there are no measures aimed at promoting health services for rural and mountain areas, either on water management or on the dissemination of renewable energy sources and energy efficiency. Here in the Senate the proposals of the 5 Star Movement had the objective to calibrate and fill these gaps but, although with non-obstacle evaluation by the Budget Commission, they were not accepted, also in order to prevent the measure, for the umpteenth time, sanding and not being approved. I am thinking, for example, of Amendment 12.0.2 which, in order to prevent the production of packaging waste and to facilitate the re-use of used packaging, provided for the experimental start in small municipalities, even in associated form, of the vacuum system to make bail for any packaging containing beer or mineral water, served to the public by hotels and holiday homes, restaurants, bars and other public places. This is a simple proposal, but it could be very important in small centres, because it would significantly reduce the proportion of waste produced. However, this proposal has been accepted by the Government with the approval of an agenda that includes, among other things, the commitment to take specific initiatives, including regulatory ones, for the activation of measures for the reduction of packaging, also through experimental projects to reduce the use of disposable plastic containers and dishes not biodegradable from the canteens of public and private bodies, hospitals, public and private offices, companies and schools, as well as we proposed in a draft law at my first signature, the Act Senate 2804, which unfortunately I fear will lie in a drawer until the end of the legislature. As already mentioned, the text is not perfect and certainly could be improved, but it is still a small, but important step towards the reconstruction of the common petioles and not wanting to risk seeing it again locked in a drawer, the 5 Star Movement Group will vote in favour of the text under consideration. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-09-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-887.ana.u15	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-09-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-887.ana.u16	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-09-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-887.ana.u17	SMALL (FI-PdL XVII). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, representatives of the Government, the measure under consideration sets out a path to enhance and recognise the important role played by small municipalities for the Italian community. In fact, we believe that the bill, to which our Group will vote in favour, represents only a first, timid step in the valorization of the role of small municipalities in the national context, to which they will have to follow further provisions that safeguard its peculiarity and ensure a regulatory environment, that simplifies compliance and guarantees an adequate level of funding. A total of €100 million is committed over seven years: €10 million for 2018 and €15 million for each of the following six years. There are few, if one thinks that all the potential beneficiaries are the approximately 5,600 small municipalities, which represent - it is worth noting - as much as 54 percent of the national territory, 16 percent of the population and 70 percent of the Italian municipalities. Too often we feel approached to the small municipality concepts such as "escape from the territory," "outskirts of the country," "budgetary problems" and I could continue. The small municipality is not a problem and is not a useless body: it is instead a response to problems of general interest, related to hydrogeological failure, to the tourist offer, to the cultural landscape protection and so on, and also to the demand for high standards of quality of life. The measure under consideration is a container to highlight many principles that can be accepted, but the reasoning must be complete and much more articulated. Each container that respects itself by definition must be filled, otherwise with the passage of time it will take the form of a simple empty box. It cannot be hidden that the resources allocated are really limited. If we divide the figure of 100 million euros for the 5,600 small Italian municipalities, we will have a figure of about 17,850 euros, on average, for each municipality, in seven years, or less than 3,000 euros per year, on average, for each municipality and a few euros, always on average, for each inhabitant. That is why we have proposed at least doubling the appropriations at the moment of amendment. The main problems facing each local authority are to deal with a multiplicity of actions and functions, with increasingly limited economic resources. Therefore, the additional resources we are talking about are not able to radically change the conditions of such subjects. The maintenance of services, the recognition of difficulties, the valorization of the peculiarities of these small agencies require certain resources to undertake a correct and structured policy of government of the territory. We can't deny that we'd expect more. The amendments tabled by our Group in the Commission and in this House were intended precisely to make the measure more consistent with the current situation. Continuing, I want to bring some further examples, in addition to what Senators Ceroni and Malan have pointed out in general discussion. In paragraph 2 of Article 1, reading the different requirements required of small municipalities to benefit from the financing to be granted or to be obtained, we find an indeterminateness that would suggest some more indication and an address for the Ministries that must prepare the decree cited in the same article. What, in fact, do expressions such as "marked economic backwardness" or "significant decrease in population" or "disagio sistivivo" or "inadequateness of essential services" mean? We do not believe it is possible for Parliament to hesitate, as it did on this occasion, from providing detailed information to the Government with clear and not random guidelines. Looking, then, at the contents of the National Plan for the redevelopment of small municipalities, provided for in paragraph 2 of Article 3, we must contest its dirigistic and not at all clear approach. What if in the meantime everyday reality presents new needs with respect to the indications of the plan? Do you rewrite the plan? Do you change the law? A different approach would have made it possible to avoid the administrative and operational burdens involved. Moreover, for example, it would have been appropriate to include in the National Plan the provision that small municipalities should be guaranteed, in case of expiry or call for concessions in general, hydroelectric in particular, a reserve of acquisition of the same as well as a forecast to favour the acquisition of shares owned by renewable energy plants, so that small municipalities could take resources and have funding on this side. We have not seen any of this. We do not even see a simplification with regard to heavy budgetary requirements for small Italian municipalities, at least by providing that local authorities with a population of up to 5,000 inhabitants are not required to prepare the Single Programming Document, which is a very heavy implementation: an unnecessary tool for planning, since the so-called programming in small municipalities has basically been reduced to nothing. In Article 2, again, we do not understand what the park agency has to do to promote in small municipalities the efficiency and quality of essential services, confusing overlapping roles that frankly makes us doubt the administrative experience of those who wrote this passage of the norm. Furthermore, how is it possible that the objective - priority of priorities - of combating depopulation is not explicitly included in the objectives of the Fund for the structural, economic and social development of small municipalities set up in Article 3. The depopulation is a real scourge that afflicts most of the small municipalities, mostly of a mountain nature, with percentages of population reduction, in recent years even more than 30%, and contextual migration - we know - of young people to other lands. The real bet will have to be to provide rules that support a counter exodus towards the small municipalities. It is necessary to activate provisions that provide tax incentives with facilities on additional municipal Irpefs and house taxes, in order to facilitate the return of residence to the territories we are talking about. Hence the need to address in the measure the issue of the differences between small municipalities of the plain and small mountain municipalities, through an intelligent administrative, economic and financial policy focused on rebalancing, where necessary. Today, Mr President, we are talking about this measure as necessary for the survival of the small municipalities, but we do not want to see the small municipalities survive; we want to see them live fully, in the actual possibility of expressing planning and management fully corresponding, precisely, to the requests for development of territory, citizens and families. If we mean this measure as the beginning of a bigger and more important game to play, then we are there, and they will have to follow actions from the next budget law on governance, services, resources, in the sign of realism and concreteness. If, however, with this approval, we believe that we have given decisive answers to the complex problem, the reality will soon put us again in the face of further worsening of the general situation and the concrete and daily problems afflicting the small Italian municipalities, all the more so because the impossibility of amending the text - to which the majority forced us - gives us a measure that is not accurate and even, at times, hasty. We will vote in favour, aware that the matter will have to be the subject of further commitment, since the current approach leaves unresolved many issues of not secondary importance for the life of those who live and work in small municipalities, resource and not problem for our country. [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-09-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-887.ana.u18	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-09-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-887.ana.u19	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-09-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-887.ana.u20	Mr Caleo (PD). (IT) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, representative of the Government, after the adoption of the environmental law and the environmental agency law, for the third time in this parliamentary term we are preparing to vote on a bill of parliamentary initiative which will have an important impact on the environment, economy and culture. This is a necessary measure, which has been discussed for a long time (three legislative acts), the result of listening and dialogue between the various parliamentary groups and the excellent work done by colleagues in the House of Deputies - starting with Ermete Realacci, who has always been a supporter of it - who helped to draw up a shared text, voted by a large majority. To be honest, Mr President, I think it is important to stress another aspect as well. If the measure is approved today, we take down a little bit of the scepticism that led colleagues in the House to say that the provision would not take place in the Senate. [[Applause from the PD and Mixed Groups]] I would like to thank all the parliamentary groups for the great sensitivity and competence they have shown, allowing the continuation of the process of examining the draft law. To be honest, many times this does not happen when bill passed to the Senate are transmitted to the Chamber of Deputies. I believe that this is an equally important point to stress. [[Applause from Senator Puppato]] As I mentioned earlier, with the adoption of this measure we insert another piece of the overall framework of reform with which, in this legislature, we are trying to provide new and more effective responses to the issues of environmental protection and the protection and enhancement of the territories, especially the hinterland. The aim we have set ourselves - we have said it several times - is to overcome the approach to the only response to the emergency, moving on to that of planning and planning of prevention policies in the management of the territory. In fact, the succession, with increasing frequency, of calamitous events puts us at the close compared to the indifferentity of making prevention the main strategic asset on which the country must aim in the coming years. Yet, when you deal with these matters, you always risk falling victim to rhetoric, but I assure you that this is not the case. The political community is well aware of the fragility of our territory from the geological point of view, to which are added the carelessness, the abandonment, the abuse and the irrational consumption of the soil. Above all, thanks to this new awareness, which has defeated - yes - old scepticisms, in this House we have succeeded together in achieving important results, which have focused on central themes for new models of development that can create value and future. Much has already been said and written, but I would like to stress that with this measure we aim to act on one of the main causes of the hydrogeological failure, namely the depopulation of the areas, especially the internal ones, and the relative carelessness of the territories. The settlement and resettlement within these places is a resource for the entire national community, because to guard these areas means to carry out a function in the interest - yes - of the limited realities, but also of those that do not belong to that basin and to that particular geographical area, but to the whole country. Attention, then, not to fall into the trap of the bell towering measure, made only for a few municipalities and which seems to have, as we have been told in the past, also the ambition of an institutional reorganization. I would like to stress that the small municipalities are a very important segment of our country: the municipalities with less than 5,000 inhabitants are 5.627 (equal to 70 percent of the total), they cover 160,000 square kilometers (i.e. 54 percent of the surface of our territory) and they host little more than 10 million inhabitants (i.e. little less than 17 percent of the total population). Then there is the theme of the recovery, valorization and redevelopment of our historic centers, a theme dramatically brought to the attention by the events of the earthquake. The work we are doing, as Parliament and Government, goes in this direction, Mr President: from "Casa Italia" to the norms contained in the environmental connection, to the extension of the ecobonus, extended also to the anti-seismic endowments for houses and condominiums, but above all to the law of the consumption of the soil. I wanted to inform the Senate: next week the unified text will be deposited and we will begin the procedure. I hope that the text can be adopted before the end of the parliamentary term. Some have said that, in order to be such an ambitious measure, it is financially light: we are talking about EUR 100 million over several years, mainly for communities that are in greatest difficulty. But, you see, to clear the field from further controversy, with this rule we are defining an idea of a country. And when we define what we want to invest in the near future, we open up a specific chapter of expenditure on the state budget, a chapter that can be re-filled from the next Stability Act. We all work together to fill this chapter. The idea of a country on which we want to focus is that represented by these villages, fundamental elements - as you have said in many - of our identity, characterized by a high quality of life and a strong social cohesion, which contain a very important part of our historical, artistic and landscape heritage and preserve many excellences of the Italian production system. Over the course of these years we have seen a successful multiplication, for example, of forms of sweet tourism, historical paths, cycling paths; we have also seen a growing young entrepreneurship, especially in agriculture, which bets on the quality and identity of the territory. I would like to remind you that 93% of PDOs and PGIs have to do with small municipalities and 79 percent of the highest quality wines come from the territories of small municipalities. We must support this potential by overcoming imbalances: this is the mission of the law. You see, ladies and gentlemen, before I was a parliamentarians, I was a park president and a mayor and I was able to touch with my hand the strengths and weaknesses of our country. I also wanted to reassure the friends of Forza Italia and the colleagues of the North League, who say that disasters have happened only now: as my colleague, Mr Vaccari, rightly pointed out, whom I thank, together with Senator Mancuso, the Draconian care began in 2010, with the approval of the notorious law no. 122 (at the time I was mayor and we went down to the square to protest) and continued even after. But the beginning of Draconian care dates back to a government that was not chaired and supported by a representative of the Democratic Party: it is important to say so in order to honor the truth. With this bill we try to shorten the distance between the Italian territories and we face a common effort to build conditions and opportunities, so that this part of Italy can really bet on itself; so that the new companies that will develop can compete in the world, thanks to broadband, the quality of their products, the sincere enthusiasm of those who work there and there wants to build a path of life. Encourage the encounter between tradition and the future and bring the local communities to make more system, to undertake those innovative but also more profitable paths, such as the green economy, sustainable tourism or, again, focusing on the agri-food quality and the short supply chain, made of good practices, transparency and legality. Among the priorities - it should be remembered - the measure identifies the objective of promoting residence in small municipalities, both citizens and productive activities, starting from the principle that the settlement is considered a resource to protect the territory. In this respect, a great deal of attention is paid to the quality of services: environmental, civil protection, education, health, social assistance, transport, road and postal services. In particular, on schools and transport, national plans will have to take account of the needs of small municipalities and rural and mountain areas. I would remind all of us that, if we want young entrepreneurs to want to settle in small towns and that they can stay in mountain areas in particular, we have to guarantee the school, the classes for their children. And if there really is to rationalize and close some class, you do it in the cities. The possibility of identifying, within the perimeter of the historical centers, areas of particular value from the point of view of the protection of architectural and cultural assets, in which to realize integrated public and private interventions aimed at urban redevelopment, in compliance with the original typologies. It is important to recover, preserve and make the historic centers appealing. A strategic choice is made on the development of the ultra-wide network, using the resources provided for market failure areas, as my colleague Astorre recalled earlier. The CIPE resolution makes more than 2 billion euros available for this project. We wanted to stress its importance: the figure to be considered is not that of the 100 million in the chapter, but the 2.2 billion deliberated by the CIPE. There are also system actions aimed at co-planning, solidarity and subsidiarity. This is a measure that dialogues and completes with the one on protected areas, which I hope can be finally approved in the coming weeks and on the Senate has been working for a few years. I think that Italy, which wants to shake off this feeling of indolence which, often and unjustly, is attributed to it, can find in this text - if it is approved and I hope so - a useful tool to seek in its roots the energies to strengthen its wings. These are the reasons why I voted in favour of the Democratic Party, ladies and gentlemen. [[Applause from the PD Group and Senator Liuzzi. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-09-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-887.ana.u21	We greet a delegation from the Italian Chamber of Deputies, who comes to see how the Senate of the Republic works - and works well - and in particular Mr Realacci, who has been the first signatory to the bill since more legislation that we are preparing to vote together with Mr Misiani, who is already rapporteur. We are honored by their presence. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-09-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-887.ana.u22	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-09-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-887.ana.u23	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-09-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-887.ana.u24	SANTANGELO (M5S). We call for the vote to be taken by simultaneous ballot by electronic means.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-09-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-887.ana.u25	I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I refer to the nominal vote by simultaneous ballot of the bill as a whole. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). I'm reading, almost unanimously! [[Applause from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-09-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-887.ana.u26	The next item is the debate on motions 1-00724 (text 2), tabled by Senator Mandelli and other Senators, 1-00836, tabled by Senator De Biasi and other Senators, 1-00837, tabled by Senator Candiani and other Senators, and 1-00838, presented by Senator Barani and other Senators, on the candidature of Milan to the seat of the European Medicines Agency. I call Senator Mandelli to explain motion No 724 (text 2). [[Brusio.]] Senator Mandelli, I ask you to wait just a few seconds to let the full senators who want to leave the Chamber flow. In this way you can perform your surgery without disturbing. Colleagues, who want to get away from this House, please do so quickly. I understand the enthusiasm for the adoption of the bill on small municipalities, but we must also address the next item on the agenda.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-09-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-887.ana.u27	Mr President, representatives of the Government, ladies and gentlemen, I think it is important today to focus on a great opportunity for our country. I am referring to the fact that the European Medicines Agency (EMA), a decentralised body of the European Union based in London and about 1,000 employees, whose main task is to protect and promote public health, animal protection, through the evaluation and control of medicinal products for human use, can be located in Italy. The EMA is primarily responsible for the scientific evaluation of applications for a European marketing authorisation for medicinal products. As everyone will know, following the referendum of 23 June 2016, which ended the UK's accession to the European Union, the EMA will have to transfer its seat to another country of the European Union. The reflection that we want to make today, and that I think is really important, is that Italy, which is one of the founding countries of the European Union and is one of the most important drug producing countries, can become the seat of this agency. In particular, the reference is to Lombardy, the first Italian Region in the field of the production of the drug with 28,000 employees, plus another 18,000 people who work in the induced and where every year they invest seven billion euros in research and innovation. This, therefore, is the great opportunity to exercise even today, with our vote, a pressure so that the candidacy of our country is taken seriously into consideration. Then we will see the reasons on which we base this request. I have to take a step back, to say that the Forza Italia Group has asked from the beginning that the EMA should be in the priorities of the Government following Brexit. I want to remember two steps quickly here. On 28 June, in the Government's communications with a view to the European Council, the very motion of Forza Italia, with Senator Paolo Romani as its first signatory, asked the Government to put in place all the useful initiatives for the EMA to come to Italy. Then we wanted to return to this issue in the Government's communications with a view to the European Council on 22 and 23 June. Always with a motion, we asked that all that could be in the government's readiness be done so that the Italian candidacy had that important weight that I explained to you a few minutes ago. Personally, I have taken this initiative from the outset. In particular, on 2 February I tabled the motion, which is basically what we are discussing today, which touched on this issue, and then asked with an urgent question to understand what the government's initiatives were in this area, at this juncture, in these months, and to be educated, myself but also all my fellow senators, of the initiatives that the Government wanted to put in place. I would like to remind you that Minister Lorenzin also asked from the beginning that the EMA should arrive in Italy and, in particular, in Milan. Very important, also in that case, the pressure of the President of the European Parliament Tajani that on August 31, meeting Guido Rasi, the Executive Director of the EMA (an Italian in a place of excellence) showed that it was necessary that the selection of the new headquarters of the agency took place on the basis of objective criteria. If the objective criteria are those identified by the Commission of the European Union in order to meet the priorities for the agency to be based in our country, they are first and foremost the guarantee that the agency will be fully operational when it has to leave London and the United Kingdom. For this reason, the President of the Lombardy Region, Maroni, immediately made available a palace of the Region, the Pirelli Palace, right in front of Milan's central station, with the possibility of renting it for free for the first year. This is precisely to show that the operation of the agency, in the case of Italian allocation, could be immediate: already suitable and ready premises, rent for the first year without any charge. A fact, therefore, absolutely important and the Lombardy Region, President Maroni and the Regional Council have certainly taken an important step to obtain the allocation of this agency; the second criterion is the ease of access of the new headquarters. But what place is better accessible than the center of Milan, attached to the central station, with three airports (in addition to Malpensa and Linate, also Orio al Serio), and a real ability to be connected to Europe and the world with an international hub and a very important European hub like Linate? Among the criteria identified, there is also the existence of schools for about 600 students and for staff. Milan is able to offer, even with excellent locations such as Varese, connected to ISPRA, students the possibility of a European training course, access to the labour market, and in this regard I believe that Milan has nothing to envy to other locations: health care for families, for 900 families and health care in Lombardy is certainly a world excellence recognized by all; I do not have to say today how important Lombardy is in the world as a health care center; finally, the operational continuity and geographical distribution between the different European agencies, and Italy I think it can have nothing against this. Milan therefore has all the requirements to host EMA and I believe that for this reason we must all together give an input to the Government and make the voice of the Italian Parliament heard in Europe to say that Milan has the requirements; it wants EMA; it wants this important Agency and this important opportunity for development for our country. Undersecretary, in the text of the motion tabled on 2 February I had indicated the need to give this input to the Government with concrete acts. Obviously, time has passed since 2 February and, therefore, I think it is appropriate to vary the device slightly and say that we should continue the path of support for the candidacy because the Government has already constituted the dossier that meets the six requirements identified by the European Commission. I believe that today it is important to say that the Government is moving forward with strength and determination, also by virtue of the vote we are about to vote on my motion. I have one final thought about the importance this agency would have for the country. I believe that, at such an important moment in the dynamics of the European Union, Italy deserves to be the protagonist of this transfer because - let me remind you - the Italian pharmaceutical company is among the most important in the world: we export 70% of the drugs produced in Italy; it is one of the great pushes to our trade balance and God knows how much we need these excellences. There is another aspect that I would like to stress: our researchers are the best in the world; they have a unique feature that not all researchers have: the ability to solve problems when they are posed in research. Italian researchers are preferred by drug companies around the world for their ability to be rigorous in science and to have that extra something, which is our character and our DNA that makes Italians an extraordinary people in the ability to solve problems. For this reason I think it is important to re-produce the Expo model: a team game that gives Italy the opportunity to offer so many jobs in our country - and we really need it - a further opportunity to grow again to say that Italy in Europe has a central place and the possibility to recognize to our scientific research the role it deserves. [[Applause from the FI-PdL XVII Group and Senator De Biasi]] . Congratulations). PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I call Senator De Biasi to explain motion 836.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-09-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-887.ana.u28	Mr President, I believe that what we are doing is an important act because Italy's candidacy for having the seat of the European Medicines Agency in Milan is a commitment that involves the whole of Parliament. There is no doubt that the Government has already begun for some time an important action to promote the candidacy of Italy and Milan for EMA. It is important that the Government has done so and that it continues to do so with an incessant ministerial diplomacy, but it is important that we also act with parliamentary diplomacy. From this point of view, the formation of an Italian and European parliamentary intergroup capable of promoting Italy's candidacy in parliamentary fora is an important fact, which I would like us to grasp in its full scope. The third element, also a novelty, is the fact that it is also and finally acting a diplomacy of the enterprise and the companies in order to favor the success of the candidacy of Italy and Milan for the seat of the European Agency of the drug. This is an issue of extraordinary importance - I would like to say this - because we are talking about Milan, which is my city and of course you will allow me to have an eye on it, but above all it is a possible victory of the country and the country system. It is good that we do not think of the headquarters of the European Agency of the drug only in a territorial key, because we know that now the development of a country takes place online; there is therefore an involvement of the entire country, the promotion and the advancement of the pharmaceutical company concerns the whole Country, even if Milan and Lombardy have one of the most important districts of drug production and research, especially in the biomedical field; but now everything is developed as a network, just think of the Human Technopole project, which I hope will start marching in a short time and it would be the first European center of work and research on genomics and big data. This project has its roots throughout the country, in a relationship between university centers, institutes of hospitalization and scientific care (IRCCS), public and private research centers, that is to say that, in order to further develop the country system, Italy needs to have the seat of the European Medicines Agency. We have discussed the importance of research several times here. I do not want to go any further on this, but I say that having EMA in Milan would mean having an extraordinary opportunity to work and control the supply chain of the drug: even during the examination of the Decree-Law on vaccines we talked about how pharmacovigilance, drug surveillance, is one of the most important points for the safety of citizens compared to the medicines that are being taken. Drug production also requires appropriate and appropriate testing. The relationship with companies in terms of prices is the other major issue that belongs to EMA. I do not hide, as we have said on many occasions, that we also need to point out that the drug is not a commodity like the others, that prices (especially innovative medicines) grow year after year and that we need a single European subject able to deal with the colossus of the drug. Having EMA in Milan means having an extra opportunity for us. In addition to the considerations that have already been made by Senator Mandelli, which I entirely agree with, we must consider the infrastructure that Milan has, its position, the opportunities it offers, the ability to connect with the world, the possibility of welcoming a valuable residence such as that of researchers and EMA officials. I think of a seat of extraordinary prestige as is the Pirelli skyscraper, one of the most extraordinary works, which was not by chance also the seat of the Region, to point out that Region and Municipality associate and promote, together with the national institutions, the candidacy of Milan as the seat of the EMA. Very important, we did it for Expo: everyone can think what he wants, maybe it was right, maybe it was wrong, but I think it was a winning choice. There are times when the country and its interests must come before the biased ones and, in my opinion, this is one of those cases, as Expo was. Launching and relaunching Italy in Europe and in the world has meant with Expo a step forward from a certainly economic and commercial point of view, but in my opinion also cultural and credibility of our country. Milan is not Rome and does not have its beauties, but it is a truly extraordinary city, which has been able to combine modernity with humanity, and this is a not irrelevant point, which makes me proud to be Milanese and that must make the whole of Italy proud. We could still talk for a long time, but I believe that our colleagues who are going around Europe to speak with Parliaments will speak better for us; Ministers and President Gentiloni, who are constantly working; President Maroni and Mayor Sala, who in turn are very busy together in this battle for the whole of Italy; and finally, the European Parliament, which, at a time when Europe is so in need, can strongly promote the candidacy of Milan as the seat of the European regulatory agency for the drug. In short, I say it with a final slogan: we must fight together and hope. The competition is very harsh, you must know, and we want transparency of the results. We want the results to be transparent because we would never want the criteria to be more appropriate to define the new seat of the European Medicines Agency. We must fight together for transparency and for the country system to take a step forward. In short, if Milan wins, Italy wins and I believe that this point must make us proud and united. [[Applause from the PD Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-09-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-887.ana.u29	I call Senator Candiani to explain motion 837.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-09-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-887.ana.u30	Mr President, let us illustrate our motion, which calls on the Government to commit itself with all the means at its disposal - and we also hope with those who are not available, in short, in all possible and imaginable ways - so that the objective of bringing the seat of the European drug agency to Milan will be successful. I would also remind you that a previous draft law was accompanied by our own agenda which committed the Government in this direction, so this is a path that we want to point out strongly, even with a motion and we will also support those of the other Groups, without looking at the signatures that have signed them. This initiative sees the Lombardy Region, the City of Milan united and, as we have seen in recent days, the Minister of Health, therefore the Government, so that it can succeed. Anyone who supports this project for us is a welcome political subject. What do you ask? May Italy play its part in the European Commission so that, after Brexit, the European Medicines Agency can be located in Italy. This is not a random matter: Milan is an appropriate place, not only structurally, but also for the context within which the European drug agency would be placed. We are talking about the most important production reality in the country, especially related to the pharmaceutical research sector. I also remember that, as published also by Assolombarda, in 2015 11,600 scientific articles were published, of which 6,200 in the field of the science of life, and this only in Milan. It is therefore a unicum. The political context must, of course, be favourable throughout Europe: it is clear that we cannot expect randomness and that we must work towards these opportunities. We read from press reports indiscretions that tell us about a Franco-German agreement to bring the agency's headquarters to Bratislava. I tell the government to stay open: I would expect that among the topics discussed yesterday in the meeting that President Gentiloni had with Macron there was also the move to Milan of the headquarters of the European Agency of the drug. If this had not happened, in fact, I think that it was not done properly. However, we remain in the perspective and within the framework of the hypotheses. Undersecretary Pizzetti, the Government must implement the guidelines that the Senate will give today and that, I am convinced, will be voted unanimously, because it is in the interest of the whole country. Bringing the Agency to Milan means not only giving lustre, but also creating job and economic development opportunities that can be assessed in several decimal places of GDP. We are therefore not talking about something secondary, because I believe that when we talk about jobs we can only find maximum convergence. However, there is a need for very strong political action in Europe. French and Germans agree very easily. The Government must enter in an appropriate way in these balances and ensure that not by political choice, but exquisitely by merit, there is no better European seat than that proposed by Milan, both structurally, with the Pirelli Palace, a structure available immediately, both from an infrastructural point of view, of the links and of the industrial, manufacturing and research fabric that gravitates around Milan. On these actions we will also measure the capacity and effectiveness of the Government, which always says that it is very much considered in Europe: this is the circumstance in which the result must be seen. There are not many days left to choose. So let's do it quickly. It is good that we have included these motions on today's agenda. I hope that there will be unanimity and that the votes will see the wider participation of the members of this House, precisely in order to express maximum support, clarity and determination to bring the seat of the European Medicines Agency to Milan. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-09-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-887.ana.u31	I call Senator Barani to explain motion 838.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-09-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-887.ana.u32	Mr President, Senator Mandelli and his previous colleagues have fully explained the reasons for the motions before us, whose sole aim is to help the Government institutionally and to encourage the Government to support the candidacy of Milan as the seat of the European Medicines Agency. The Government has already taken important steps and we urge it to continue in this direction. Milan is at this moment the city objectively most suitable, but I remember that the candidacy is Italian; I would not emphasize therefore only Milan. In this sense, too, our motion is based on the premise that the European Medicines Agency is a Community Agency of the European Union. Given that the seat of this agency is in London and that the citizens of the United Kingdom, through the holding of a referendum, have decreed to put an end to the accession of the country to the European Union, it is necessary to transfer the seat of that agency elsewhere and we believe that after London, Milan is the most suitable city ever. I am convinced that President Gentiloni, not only with Macron, but also with the other Heads of State, has carried out in a concrete way the Italian candidacy of Milan for this important headquarters, which will host thousands of employees. They will come from London and come to Milan; we therefore hope that there will also be the possibility of expanding the human baggage of this important agency. It is true that, as Senator Mandelli said, in the pharmaceutical field we are taking the lead in drug research and productivity. I remember that we are among the biggest exporters in Europe and the world, with a great production and research capacity. We have already seen that at an official meeting in September 2016, following a summit between the President of the Lombardy Region, the Mayor of Milan and the Minister for Agriculture, Food and Forestry Policy representing the Government, the allocation to the Lombardy capital of the EMA headquarters has been officialized. I would add nothing more, Mr President, except that I am pleased to see that yesterday's group leaders wanted to put on the agenda the immediate discussion of the motions (as the House will do next Monday) of mere support for the Government, in order to ensure that the Italian interests, which I see are supported in a cross-cutting way, both by the majority and by the minority, are respected. We believe that the identification of Milan as the seat of the EMA is a conquest of the entire Italian Parliament, obviously well represented in this field by the Government.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-09-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-887.ana.u33	I would like to say that the G1 agenda has been presented, which has already been printed and distributed, which Senator Crimi, the first signatory, has asked to explain. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-09-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-887.ana.u34	Mr President, we are basically in favour of this application procedure, although we have to point out, as I said yesterday, the usefulness of this debate, given that the whole country agrees (union, Region and Government), that the candidature has already been put in place and that the Government has already allocated EUR 59 million. And we are today, on Thursday morning, in a semi-empty Chamber to say obvious things. However, we do not want to repeat the obvious, but we want to add something more and re-launch. With this agenda we want it to be written out in black and white that the Government is committed to supporting this candidacy, but with some constraints. In particular, what we are asking for is that no new buildings be made. Milan does not need new buildings, there are too many empty and unused ones. We are told that there is the willingness to reuse existing spaces, such as the Pirelli skyscraper, but we have already heard the hypothesis that, in view of this availability, we are using ourselves to build something else. Well, on this agenda we are asking that the relevant administrations be committed not to building further in Milan, which perhaps has enough cement and would need more, trees and green space, since we also cut the trees. Another important aspect that we stress on the agenda is that the management of everything that revolves around this Agency in the future takes place with transparency. Unfortunately, in various European agencies - and this is a fact that has been denounced by several parties - mechanisms of connection with the territory and companies that refer to those agencies are not always healthy. Today we have only talked about the beauty of having an agency in the territory, which is more developed than others in the pharmaceutical and biomedical sectors, but we forget to say that perhaps this agency, at the moment when it engages in this territory could suffer from influences and conflicts of interest. For example, the entry and exit mechanism of so-called revolving doors has been denounced, so officials who may come from companies then switch to agencies and vice versa. That is why we do not want this mechanism to be triggered in the European Medicines Agency, in a territory which in the drug industry sees its leading sector. Therefore, the recommendations we make to the Government on this agenda are to monitor the transparency mechanisms, the use of funds and the non-construction of new buildings in Milan. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-09-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-887.ana.u35	I declare the debate open. Senator Orellana is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-09-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-887.ana.u36	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I am very pleased to speak in the debate to support Milan's candidacy to host the European Medicines Agency, and not only because it has the best characteristics and potential to host the EMA, but above all because I believe that this is the most strategic choice from an economic and political point of view that Italy can take forward in Europe in recent months. The eventual arrival in the capital of Lombardy of the European Medicines Agency could bring an induced of more than one billion euros (well 890 people work in the Agency), not to mention the qualitative increase that Italian technological research would have if the entire scientific support structure was fully operational. My hope, with a unanimous vote by the House, is that the candidature of Milan will be stronger, as the conviction is stronger that in front of us we have an opportunity for development in terms of research, medicine and innovation. Both Council President Gentiloni Silveri and the President of the European Parliament Tajani stressed that the candidacy, although difficult and uphill, has all the possibilities, as well as objective criteria, to be favored. That is why I hope that Parliament will also play its part, perhaps approving a single and shared motion, which goes beyond the capricious and unreasonable arguments that have nothing to do with a challenge on the future of Italy. It is very important to show a united country that supports Milan's candidacy. In this sense, I hope that today's vote will be unanimous and in favour of this candidacy. There are as many as 19 applications and our competitors will exploit all our possible criticalities. The political uncertainty linked to the next national and regional votes in 2018 could be instrumentally used against the candidacy of Milan. That is why it is essential to show the unity and compactness of all political forces in favour of Milan. 10:49 a.m. (Follows ORELLANA). The application was presented in Brussels on 25 September. Minister Lorenzin, Undersecretary Gozi, President Maroni and Mayor Sala were present: different roles and different political parties, but union and unity of intent in promoting Milan as the future headquarters of the EMA. I therefore appeal in particular to the colleagues of the 5 Star Movement, who have a decisive role to play in this respect. A vote against or even just abstention or their uncertainty will be assessed very negatively and used against Italy by our competitors, because it does not escape anyone who polls give the 5 Star Movement as the first party in Italy and candidate for a role of Government in the near future. If he now expressed himself in some way contrary and weakly to the candidacy of Milan, as was done for example in the case of Rome's candidacy for the Olympic Games, this would be an iattura for Italy. I hope that it will be confirmed in today's vote what Mr Cappelletti said yesterday, albeit in a different context, namely the obvious support for the candidacy, although he did not think it useful to discuss it in this House, as Mr Crimi did a little while ago. It's not like that at all. Parliament, and the Senate in particular, can and must do its part, precisely in view of the decisive appointments of the coming weeks. By November it is decided and Italy, which focuses everything on this prestigious headquarters, in that it has submitted the candidacy only for the European Agency of the drug and not for the other agency (the European Banking Agency), cannot afford doubts and uncertainties. There are as many as 18 candidates - as already mentioned - and some well placed compared to the six objective criteria that have been indicated, which I repeat quickly, to reaffirm how well placed Milan is. The first is to ensure that the Agency can be established on the spot. Therefore, Milan, having made available the Pirelli skyscraper, is definitely in place. The second is the accessibility of the location, i.e. the distance of air links from Milan to the various European capitals. The figure given in the dossier of more than 50 pages on Milan, which I have read, shows a distance from Milan by air around three hours (apart from the capital of Cyprus). Certainly other candidate cities, such as Sofia, Bucharest or Porto, cannot guarantee the same connection times. Appropriate educational facilities are also required for the children of staff members. This is an objective requirement, which Milan can guarantee, having the best universities in Europe, both public - and above all public - and private, and also being present a European school in Varese for young people who have not started university studies and still attend high school. The requirements also include adequate access to the labour market, social security and health care for spouses and children. I believe that Italian and, of course, Lombard health care is one of the European excellences and that obviously reassures us. As for social security, we have a welfare that has many defects, but that is certainly not to be despised if we compare it with what exists around the world. As for the labour market, in Lombardy we fortunately have much lower unemployment rates than other Italian realities and certainly among the lowest in Europe. The fifth criterion is operational continuity: Milan will have to guarantee the passage of the work from the current headquarters in London to that of Milan, without any inconvenience being created. And this is a commitment that Milan has shown to be able to face at an organizational level, organizing - for example - in a very short time and effectively the Expo. Finally, the sixth requirement concerns geographical distribution. This is a somewhat more political criterion, because it requires that the offices of the Agencies be distributed among all the European countries and in Italy is already present, in Parma, the seat of the European Food Safety Authority, while other countries, including Slovakia, which candidate Bratislava - mentioned in one of the motions and also by the colleague of the North League, Candiani - do not host any Agency and could be very strong on this aspect. And the same would apply to Bucharest or Zagreb. However, I hope that our European partners do not want to reward one of the countries of the so-called Visegrad Group, which for other matches, such as those related to immigration, are not complying with the European rules, but are absolutely opposed to the redistribution of migrants: I hope that those countries will soon be subject to European infringement procedures and must pay fines for a choice contrary to the commitments made. I therefore believe that today's day, here in the Senate, and that which will take place in the Chamber of Deputies are not absolutely useless, but rather give a signal of compactness of the nation in favour of a candidacy that Italy has been pushing for a long time, not only at the governmental level, but also - as I have already said - with the action of the mayor of Milan, Sala and, above all, of the Region, as demonstrated by the availability of the Pirelli skyscraper. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. He's enlisted to speak Senator Floris. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-09-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-887.ana.u37	Madam President, until now I have heard Members speaking almost exclusively from the North of our peninsula, who clearly apply for Milan as the seat of the European Medicines Agency (EMA). This is almost obvious, because surely in this request there is a form of bell towering. I would like to add my voice to that of my previous colleagues to say that Sardinia, which is far from Milan, believes that an Agency of this kind, given its interest and the development that it requires, can only be welcomed in an infrastructured territory, which can properly carry out the heavy tasks of the Agency. It is regrettable that this is a result of Brexit: we would have liked Europe as a whole to give such recognition to a territory that is truly important from the point of view of scientific and pharmacological research. Sorry because we would have had the opportunity to compete with other territories. I repeat the invitation made earlier by Mr Crimes: on this initiative we try not to split up. I dare not even think that there is speculation on the part of other territories. I think that a few times like this a unanimous and united expression of the whole Senate can constitute a positive business card for those who analyze us from abroad. Woe if, presenting ourselves separately, we offered the opportunity to the other countries, which on the contrary are proving very united on this initiative, to say that the Italians have not reached a sharing on the chosen place, which could create who knows which problems. I believe that on the basis of this initiative, precisely because of the importance it would give to a territory that we say is ready to welcome, we must strongly support the possibility of making a leap forward in our scientific research in its entirety, because the EMA does not act as a foreign object in a territory. The Agency can be an important opportunity not only to develop research in the pharmaceutical and biomedical fields but also to do research in an absolute sense. Let us remember that many of the drugs for which we are today asking for marketing concern the molecular composition. Well, these medicines that will be studied by the EMA cannot be studied anywhere, but they certainly require important research centers. And we have them. We have centres that can study the biomedical application of new products before obtaining marketing authorisation. We have an opportunity perhaps more unique than rare to give meaning to all the investments that have been made, to all the achievements in the Lombardy territory. Moreover, saying Lombardy is also limiting, because here it is a question of recognizing Italy as a whole as a centre that can have positive repercussions. Of course, if it is not Sardinia too - which I hope - will be Piedmont, Veneto; it will certainly be all those industries that make Italy important in the world also from the pharmaceutical point of view. I only remember - for having heard and read the statistics - that Italy exports 70% of pharmaceutical production. I therefore believe that in the pharmaceutical sector, as far as the study of humans and animals is concerned, we have the opportunity to welcome the European Medicines Agency more than many other countries that are not so advanced in the specific field. In conclusion, President, from Sardinia a strong yes to that Milan is the Italian candidate - and I also think that it should be the European candidate - to welcome the Agency. [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII and the Senators De Biasi, Fucksia and Liuzzi.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-09-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-887.ana.u38	Senator Gaetti is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-09-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-887.ana.u39	Madam President, with the UK leaving the European Union, the European Medicines Agency, which is currently based in London, needs to find another location. We believe that Milan is a city more than adequate to welcome the Agency for a number of reasons: the area of the great Milan generates a GDP of 153 billion euros and, with the regional induced, 359 billion (Assolombarda data). There are 3,600 multinational companies operating in the area. Milan is an international pharmaceutical center: there are more than 200 companies producing medicines; 64,000 people directly involved in the sector; 30 billion production value and 2.7 billion investment (Farmindustria data). Moreover, Milan already has its headquarters practically ready - the Pirellone that, with some structural adaptation, is immediately operational - and is a large city able to accommodate the families of the 700-800 employees, with everything that follows. In addition, Milan is a heavily infrastructured city, with 2 airports, 350 flights a day, trains, computer networks, etc. We also stress that it has many complementary biomedical and biotechnological research activities in its territory, with 8 universities, 17 scientific and hospital institutions and 32 research centres. The high level of Italian research is recognized as one of the best in the world rankings. Italy, in fact, ranks seventh in the world for the number of studies produced in the field of biotechnology. For all the reasons set out above, we therefore believe that Milan is really the ideal venue. One last thing that I want to highlight is the fact that our candidacy was already held on 25 September, when Minister Lorenzin, Undersecretary Gozi, the President of the Lombardy Region Maroni and the Mayor of Milan went to Brussels to highlight all our excellences. The European Commission will publish the list of cities based on the criteria laid down by the European Council by 30 September - so in a few days' time. Therefore, I believe that this intervention of ours is late and goes along with a path that has already begun. The timing of the motions therefore seems more dictated by calendar necessity, than by the need to give a strong signal of the government's operation. This act, if approved a few weeks ago, would have given a more incisive political significance. Its examination today shows instead how Parliament follows the wishes of the Government and not vice versa. Finally, I would like to stress the importance of the economic weight of this decision in this area. It could of course be good, but it could also be bad. To return to the speech made by Mr Crimes, I hope that the Government and Parliament will be able to implement all those situations of transparency in the management of such a delicate Agency. We really hope that the Government will be able to put all its weight in place in Europe for the success of the transfer of the European Medicines Agency to Milan. [[Applause from the M5S Group and Senator De Biasi]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-09-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-887.ana.u40	Senator Rizzotti is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-09-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-887.ana.u41	Madam President, certainly the referendum held in Britain on 23 June 2016, which decreed its exit from the European Union, has also had an impact on the agencies in English territory, such as the EMA and EBA. It began immediately to think about what to do and someone even proposed Italy as the seat of the European Banking Agency, while we moved immediately to apply for the seat of the European Medicines Agency. I remember, a few days after Brexit, when we began to talk about the EMA, that a daily newspaper in the health sector published an interview in which Senator Mandelli invited the country to become a candidate for Milan at the headquarters of the EMA. It was a pity that the motion tabled on 2 February 2017, precisely by Senator Mandelli - as was mentioned a moment ago by the previous colleague - was scheduled with months and months of delay. It would certainly have been a good help for the Government, even when it submitted the candidacy of Milan, to have the - I hope unanimous - decision of Parliament on the transfer of the seat of the EMA. Now we are towards the final flight, because within a month, after a first shake between the cities that have applied, you will choose between a rose of three. So, by next November, we will know the verdict of this decision. A dossier illustrating the six qualifying points of the capital of Lombardy was presented by President Gentiloni. The seat is already ready and let's not forget that one of the requirements identified is that the transfer is immediately operational in a working place. In this he was very good President Maroni to make available, with perfect timing, one of the buildings of the Region, until today seat of the Regional Council. We know that in addition to Milan, Amsterdam, Athens, Barcelona, Bonn, Bratislava, Brussels, Bucharest, Copenhagen, Dublin, Helsinki, Lille, Porto, Sofia, Stockholm, Malta, Vienna, Zagreb and Warsaw run. The European Commission will publish an evaluation of applications on 30 September, based on criteria established in June by 27 countries at the European Council. It could therefore give an explicit vote or give an overall opinion on the nominations. 11:06 a.m. (Following RIZZOTTI). At the moment what appears unofficially is that the most technically strong files are those sent, precisely, from Milan, Amsterdam, Barcelona and Vienna. Already the whole world of companies, Confindustria and the Italian production system have mobilized in Brussels to push Milan in the race to win EMA, the European Agency of the drug. There was an important event, organized by Confindustria, Farmindustria, Federchimica, the Milan Foundation for Expo 2015, the Chamber of Commerce Milan-Monza-Brianza-Lodi and Assolombarda, to present to the European business community all the strengths of the Italian candidacy. The Bratislava office has already been unofficially discarded. Instead, we know that Milan is certainly the city that best meets the six requirements: among these there is accessibility, since Milan is connected by three airports, by a local and railway transport network and by the metro, which can facilitate the transfer of at least a thousand employees. As regards the requirement for the immediate operation of the EMA, there are - as I have already mentioned - ready buildings that could host its headquarters. There must also be international schools to guarantee the right to study the children of the employees to be transferred, from early childhood to university courses. In Lombardy there are universities that, for years now, organize English language degree courses with a highly appreciated training offer. With regard to health benefits, Lombardy is certainly one of the European and probably global excellences and it is not even called into question that employees' families may not consider health benefits to be adequate, the level of which is higher than the European average. The same is true with regard to welfare, because among the requirements there is the possibility for the families transferred, the wives of the employees, the children and the comrades, to find a job. On 24 July last, President Gentiloni presented the official candidacy of Milan in Europe, illustrating all the excellences and attractions of the city and the Region. There has already been the visit of a delegation of the EMA in Lombardy, to which President Maroni has illustrated all the possibilities and offers of the capital of Lombardy. I am very pleased that there is Parliament's unanimity in supporting this request, which would not only bring great benefits to Milan and Lombardy, to the world of research and to our companies, but could also represent an important added value for the GDP of the whole country and certainly of the North of Italy. We could also imagine a development of tourism thanks to the transfer of so many people. I think of my city, Turin, from which, in fifty minutes, you can reach Milan. That would therefore be very important. Of course, the candidacy of another Italian city, Bari, considered the pearl of the South, almost the South of Milan, was ventilated and proposed. But, as regards the industrial fabric, research and productivity, as well as logistics and transport, Milan offers more, and it does not have against me the Apulian colleagues. I hope that we do not apply strange geopolitical equilibrium criteria: we were talking about a Macron-Merkel axis to divide the two agencies: that of the drug in France and that of the banking in Germany. I hope that the government, with all this support and objective reasons for choosing the location of an important agency such as that of the drug, when the decision is taken in Europe, I hope that - we cross our fingers - it will bring this important result home. [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII and the Senators Bianco and Fucksia.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-09-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-887.ana.u42	The debate is closed. I call the representative of the Government, and I would ask him to give his opinion on the motions and on the agenda.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-09-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-887.ana.u43	Mr President, I will make a few comments before the opinions are delivered, first of all by thanking Parliament and the speakers. As mentioned in the last speech, following the referendum on the separation of Britain from the European Union in June 2016, the topic of the relocation of two important and strategic offices was raised: the EMA (European Medicines Agency) and the EBA (European Banking Authority). Immediately the previous Government and the then president of the Renzi Council took the initiative to candidate Milan to head office for the European Agency for the drug, bearers in that case of a choral indication of the main institutions concerned: in addition to the Government, the Lombardy Region and the City of Milan. But I want to remember - and Mrs Rizzotti is right - also the world of Milanese and Lombardy research and entrepreneurship, which have made a significant contribution and support to the taking of this initiative. On 13 September 2016, the project EMA-Milano was included in the pact for Lombardy that the then President of the Council Renzi signed with the president of the Maroni Region. Then there was the joint letter of President Maroni and Mayor Sala to the Government to formalize and enter the heart of the candidacy. I recall that last March - to point out the intensity with which this important and delicate match, as pointed out by my colleague De Biasi, was followed - a coordination table was established at the Presidency of the Council, chaired by Professor Moavero Milanesi and composed of all the main institutions: the Ministry for Foreign Affairs, the MIUR, the MISE, the Ministry of Health, the Lombardy Region and the City of Milan. It was therefore intense work to support and in particular the diplomatic activity that is still under way, starting with the action - which was also mentioned - of the President-in-Office of the Council. The last initiative is the meeting last Monday in Brussels where Minister Lorenzin, together with President Maroni, Mayor Sala and Professor Moavero Milanesi presented the candidacy of Milan. On Saturday there will be a first evaluation of applications. The final decision will be taken on 20 November by European bodies which - I imagine - will deal with this issue in the margins of the European Council on 19 and 20 October. I think that the country's institutional and political unity is fundamental to trying to achieve this goal. 18 other cities, among others of primary standing, representing as many States, contribute to the assignment of the seat. So it won't be a walk. And unity, which is also expressed in the content of the motions, is a fundamental premise and it is good that it is repeated by Parliament both today, with the vote on the motions and on the agenda presented, and - let me say - Wednesday, 18 October, when the President of the Council will come here to explain the Italian initiative in relation to the European Council of the following days. I hope that this will also be the forum, beyond political differences, to reaffirm the unity of intent and strengthen the mandate of the Government and the President of the Council. As mentioned, the EMA has 890 employees, several scientific committees and works with thousands of experts and researchers, both on the subject of the new drug and on the issue of monitoring the quality of medicines on the market. The issues of drug quality and quality of health are closely related and are one of the important reasons why the candidacy of Milan has been advanced. We could say that Milan is the city called for to be home, not only because it corresponds to all criteria identified for the assignment, but also because it is located in a country, Italy, which, with Germany, is the first drug manufacturer in Europe and, moreover, in the heart of a pole of studies, research and production among the most qualified in the world. In addition to the many strengths contained in the dossier that the coordination table prepared during the Presidency of the Council, in agreement with the Lombardy Region and the City of Milan, and which are also recalled in the motions, I would like to highlight two fundamental aspects, starting with the conclusion. The first aspect is the performance of the country system, demonstrated precisely in Milan at Expo 2015. This is a great strength on the quality of the country system. The second - for which I would particularly like to thank President Maroni - is to have made available a prestigious place as the seat of the new Agency. Having the seat available is a great strength, because only we and Barcelona do it. All the other candidates, in fact, have to build the headquarters. This is an important point, and it makes the coordination table and the contribution given by the Lombardy Region and also by the City of Milan a great support action. I thank Parliament, in particular the Senate, for the action to support the initiative of the Government and the various institutions, which, in fact, is an action to support the country in the name of the general interest and the national interest. I hope that this will end with a united vote on the various motions and will be repeated in the presence of the President-in-Office of the Council on Wednesday 18 October. As far as the opinions on motions are concerned, I am in favour of motions no. 836, 724 (text 2) with the integration that my colleague Mandelli has read and quoted in his speech of the Aula and 837 with the suppression of the intuition and proposal of the president of the Maroni Region because - as I have already explained - it is an initiative of an overall without birthright, and with the modification of the device as follows it engages the Government to continue with determination - and not to support it - at the competent Community fora the action of support to the candidacy of Milan, 838 with the modification of the device as follows : it engages the Government to continue the action of support to the candidacy of Milan. With regard to the G1 agenda, the opinion is in favour of the following rewordings: "It commits the Government to continue its support for Milan's candidacy at the headquarters of the EMA by continuing to implement all the initiatives". For the second part, I propose to stop at the words "new buildings" and to delete the following by using the savings resulting from the rationalization of the use of real estate in favour of local small and medium-sized enterprises and interventions in support of disability, since it is a commitment that, in the state of the art, we are not able to assume. [[Applause from the PD Group and Senator Orellana.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-09-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-887.ana.u44	Senator Mandelli, do you confirm my acceptance of the reformulation you proposed yourself? MANDELLI (FI-PdL XVII). Mr President, I accept that. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator Candiani, do you accept the reformulation? CANDIANI (LN-Aut). Mr President, I accept that. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator Barani, do you accept the reformulation? Mr Barani (ALA-SCLP). Yes. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator Crimes, do you accept the reformulation? CRIMI (M5S). President, I accept that. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-09-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-887.ana.u45	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-09-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-887.ana.u46	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-09-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-887.ana.u47	FUCKSIA (FL (Id-PL, PLI)). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the fact that the Senate Assembly today decided to include these motions on the agenda is also a good thing. And it is especially so after discussing the bill on the villages, because we move from the enhancement of the suburbs and provincial cities to putting a strategic pearl in a metropolitan city. It is a clear and strong signal of the support and contribution that this House - and the whole Parliament - wants to make to ensure that negotiations to bring the European Medicines Agency (EMA) to Italy are successful. Colleagues, the vote for the United Kingdom's exit from the European Union, although on the one hand it is a complicated process because of which the entire community of the 27 will have to suffer inevitable repercussions, on the other it has made possible the opening of some windows of opportunities potentially very interesting for our country, which we must seize. I am thinking of the EMA, but also of other possible agencies and opportunities such as, for example, a European Authority for the Protection of Animals or Historical Monuments and for the Strategy for Seismic Prevention or the European Agency for Safety and Health at Work (EU-OSHA), now in Bilbao. It would have been opportunities for Italy to have all the papers in order, such as EFSA in Parma or other centres. Today we are dealing with the EMA, but I am also thinking of the European banking authority (EBA). Being able to host these authorities on our territory, in our cities, not only constitutes a reason for institutional boasting, but also results in the creation of an induced from the occupational point of view, of research, of development and helps us to make more attractive - from the economic point of view - the whole country. Just to give an example, the EMA organizes an average of 500 international meetings a year that move 500,000 people. It is no coincidence that many pharmaceutical companies have established locations in London in recent years to be close to EMA. It is therefore likely that they will decide to move their branches to the city that will be chosen to host it in the future, creating further growth. That's why it's more important today than ever to team up. I say this thinking of a positive synergy between institutions, productive sector, university and research; I say this, colleagues, even thinking with a little bitterness of the recent cases of other cities, including Rome, whose administration did not have the will and vision to understand this opportunity, transforming it into yet another missed opportunity. Returning to Milan, today is the time to show on the negotiating table with the Commission and the European Council that next November they will have to choose the candidate winner who is not Milan, but our country system. We cannot focus only on the data, albeit solid and growing, of the Lombard pharmaceutical sector; many more are much more important the reasons to support the candidacy of Milan as the next headquarters of the EMA. First of all, we have a logistical reason: an Authority that has the task of authorising new medicines throughout Europe cannot stop its activity even for a day; if this happens, it would pay the direct consequences for citizens and patients. This is why it is absolutely necessary that the new headquarters be fully operational in a very short time and that it is also included in an appropriate socio-economic and scientific fabric, which can support change, ensuring the right continuity. In Milan there are offices already ready and infrastructured made available by the Lombardy Region, that is the Pirelli skyscraper, designed more than sixty years ago by Giò Ponti, Pier Luigi Nervi and other archistars. For the move it is enough to unplug the computer plugs in the Docks building in London and reattach the sockets in the skyscraper of via Fabio Filzi. In addition, it is already working to open a door to assist the move and the EMA employees in all their needs. In addition to the physical infrastructure and the availability of spaces, count the times and distances of the connections with high-speed trains and airports, the accommodation capacity for employees, visitors, participants in the major international events and Milan, especially following Expo, can be said to be ready. In this regard I also have a bit of bitterness, because I think, for example, of the Marches, which could be the center of the Adriatic macro-region and which, however, are not connected so well, in fact, from an infrastructural point of view, are a bit the taillight of this country. Investing in infrastructure is important; often battles are being waged against that they are ideological, but the links also help in a perspective of green development, because reducing paths and times also means impacting less from the point of view of environmental emissions. I said that, in addition to the physical infrastructure and the availability of spaces, the times and distances of the connections with high-speed trains and airports are important. This is important, because Milan is ready. Finally, other elements which cannot be measured with the decimal metric system, but which are fundamental, cannot be overlooked. I am thinking of the elements expressed by the surrounding cultural and social environment: for example, the Italian biomedical industry, pharmaceutical active ingredients and biotechnology. I am thinking of the University of Bologna which is studying patents that would be very important to finance, because this would make it again a city of excellence, patents and creativity. Between Bologna and Milan the European hub of this activity is concentrated: the biotech pole in Bresso, the citadel of innovation, the Human Technopole, the health pole, the Agency for the promotion of European research (APRE), the Joint Research Centre in Ispra near Varese, the European Food Safety Authority (EFSA) in Parma, of which I spoke earlier. This network could be a scientific hub of cooperation for unique continental research, covering important and interrelated areas, such as the science of life, nutrition and nutrition. In short, Milan likes to win easy in this case, because the conditions are all there and it could become that beating heart that would make us small yes, but great in Europe. Colleagues, these are the reasons why it is worth supporting Milan's candidacy and doing so with conviction. We must do this not only for Milan, but for Italy. I am thinking of the controversy and concern expressed earlier by Mr Crimes about transparency. It is obvious that it is a matter not of revolving doors, but of competences. It cannot deal with such important topics at a strategic level who has not done so and I hope that you do not need the blue stamp of the Associate House to be in order in this case. I hope that the transparency parameters are others and apply to the country and to everyone. There are political-diplomatic battles that measure more than others the international standing of a country and that to win the headquarters of the EMA is one of these. [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-09-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-887.ana.u48	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-09-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-887.ana.u49	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-09-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-887.ana.u50	COMAROLI (LN-Aut). Mr President, I do not want to stress the importance of Milan being the best candidate to become the seat of the EMA, because already all my previous colleagues have reminded me of this value with a whole series of data, from the point of view of the pharmaceutical pole, the importance of research and the compliance of the city with all the requirements necessary for the application. We all know that the EMA in Milan would bring countless benefits to the whole of our country, in terms of both employees, therefore new jobs, and GDP. For this reason, the vote we are going to vote in this House today is very important in order to give support and value to this request. We know, however, that there is the problem of competitors and other cities that have come forward and this is where the weight of the government becomes essential. A number of actions have already been taken, but there is a real demand that President Gentiloni Silveri speak loudly, because that is the only way to achieve the result. I am not saying anything new: just see Merkel what she can get when she goes to speak in Europe. This Government should do the same: at the meeting that took place last week, in which Governor Maroni, Mayor Sala and Minister Lorenzin participated, perhaps President Gentiloni Silveri could have gone instead of Minister Lorenzin. It is true that next week he will go to the European Council and I really hope that he will demand the headquarters of the EMA in Milan, not so much for the city itself, but for the objective technical issues in support of this choice. Italy, in fact, in Europe is one of the most important manufacturers in the pharmaceutical sector, also at scientific level, with universities. For this reason a commitment from this Government is asked, because in Milan the EMA will certainly have all the support it needs: the Lombardy Region, in fact, is working, because the Government has already allocated the funds, but they are blocked and those who are anticipating the expenses is precisely the Lombardy Region, which is spending the funds for the promotion of Milan. At this stage, in fact, it is essential to promote, by effectively explaining all the reasons why Milan is wanted and not Bratislava. The thing that is worrying us is that unfortunately, instead, we hear people saying that they have already decided that the headquarters will be destined for another city. This is not good, because it leads to wonder what it is that was not done to make the seat Milan. I really hope that from here until they decide, in November, they will be able to find the strength and determination that the Government must have to bring the headquarters of the EMA to Milan. For these reasons, Mr President, beyond the commas in the motions, the important thing today in this House is the conscious expression of a vote in favour, aimed at giving a broad mandate to ensure that the EMA's headquarters are in Milan in 2019. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-09-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-887.ana.u51	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-09-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-887.ana.u52	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-09-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-887.ana.u53	Mr Barani (ALA-SCLP). Mr President, our Group will vote in favour of all the motions tabled because we believe it is important that this branch of Parliament, as will be the case with the House of Deputies on Monday 9 October, give the Government the strength to impose itself and bring home the important result of the transfer of the European Medicines Agency, which must leave London following Brexit, to Milan. There is no point in adding more to Milan's candidacy. It is certain that other European countries would like to become the seat of the EMA, but I believe that this is the ad hoc seat and that it is also in the interests of the whole European Union and the other twenty-seven countries. We have heard that the Lombardy Region even makes available the structure of the headquarters free of charge for the first year. This concerns us a little, because it does not necessarily mean that the Court of Auditors' investigations will not come. We must be careful, in fact, when people say that something is done for free in the public administration, because the judiciary that we find ourselves - and this is a criticism that I do aloud - we never know how you think. This offer certainly responds to the principle of favoring the presence in front of the central station of Milan of this important headquarters, but I do not think it is directly the fact that the structure has for a year free of charge. My group will therefore vote in favour of the motions. On the other hand, we will not vote in favour of the G1 agenda, tabled by our colleagues in the 5 Star Movement, because we believe that there is too much demagogy in it. It is time to stop, colleagues; when you ask to bring a seat to our country, it is useless that you put stakes and stakes, you just have to make it point. It is not for a seat that we can talk about cementifications. The seat is already there and we must not begin to say to limit and try to favor with savings Guy, Caio or Sempronio. Senator Fucksia talked about a blue bubble: we wouldn't want everything to rotate in favor of the blue bubble intervention maybe for computer systems.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-09-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-887.ana.u54	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-09-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-887.ana.u55	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-09-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-887.ana.u56	DIRINDIN (Art. 1-MDP). Mr President, on behalf of the Group of the Party of European Socialists, I too would like to express my support for Italy's and, in particular, Milan's candidacy as the seat of the European Medicines Agency. The exit of the United Kingdom from the European Union implies changes which also affect the seat of the drug regulators, where Italy has a large part of the cards in order to be able to submit with a strong candidacy. I therefore believe that it is important for Parliament to express its support for this candidacy. However, I would like to stress the need to consider the requirements that we often do not have brilliantly present in our reality, in the management of drug policies and in the government of the pharmaceutical industry, which certainly, in some cases, at international level do not make us appear first in the companies of European countries. However, this is also a great opportunity to learn to engage in transparent behaviour and respect for the control of conflicts of interest that perhaps we have not always kept sufficiently clear. I really hope, therefore, that if this candidacy succeeds, it will also be useful to adopt a style, in these areas, more appropriate to international levels. [[Applause from the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and ……]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-09-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-887.ana.u57	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-09-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-887.ana.u58	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-09-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-887.ana.u59	D'Ambrosio Lettieri (GAL (DI, GS, MPL, RI)). Mr President, I believe that the motions that are being put to the attention of this House today have a very important symbolic value. I believe that they are aimed at supporting the reasons of the tricolor and undoubtedly these reasons must lead us to an act of responsibility, abandoning the logic of the bell tower and following a highway that leads us to select and support in Italy the seat objectively most suitable in terms of requirements possessed. I believe that the nominations that have been presented - as a wish, at least - from various national fora are all respectable as a sign of territorial pride, but this pride today must be overcome by the reasons of the country, which must be presented to the evaluation of the supranational decision-maker with a credible proposal, the best possible one, the one with greater chances to overcome the challenge with the most credible candidates, who are mostly cities of the West (from Amsterdam to Barcelona, from Vienna to Brussels and Copenhagen, with Bratislava that has been scalped and, to use a sports metaphor, makes field trips). In all the motions, beginning with the one presented by Senator Mandelli and ending with the one presented by Senator De Biasi, all the reasons of fact and law that support the reasons for which it is legitimate that the Assembly, with unanimous vote, supports the candidacy of Milan are presented. I believe that the symbolic value of this vote, which I am convinced will give a unanimous assessment and vision, gives strength to the wish to ensure that the assessments that will be made for the choice see the logistic and technical conditions prevail over those political ones. For God's sake, I realize that international diplomacy is at work so that even political nuances are not foreign to choice, but I believe that it is necessary for the supranational decision-maker to be attentive to the assessment of the fulfilment of the requirements. From this point of view, I believe that Milan has all the cards in order and the conditions to represent the national tricolor in a side in which Italy is an excellence. Let us not forget that AIFA is the regulatory agency of the most qualified national drug, more accredited and more considered worldwide and not by chance the president of the EMA is an Italian, Professor Guido Rasi, on whose credibility, on whose talent and on whose scientific competence I believe there are unanimous positive evaluations. We must also consider the logistical accessibility and the hospitality, that to see Italy not only ready but, with the proposal of Milan, absolutely adapted to the challenge that must be faced with the headquarters of the EMA in the capital of Lombardy. There is also the presence of school infrastructure and health care, for which Milan certainly demonstrates that it is an excellence at European level. But there are not only logistical assessments and assessments of the ability to absorb with great efficiency the international traffic of the converging transports on Milan and that it leaves from Milan for the other Countries of the Union. The theme deserves to be extended, with an evaluation, also to the fact that Italy can boast its position as second country in the field of the production of medicines in Europe, after Germany, and that the rate of export of drugs from Italy has no rivals, because it is an unparalleled percentage, with an absolute recognition that comes to us internationally for the quality and skills of all employees. It should also be pointed out that, in the biotechnology area, Italy has the highest levels of excellence in the world, which we probably do not advertise adequately. I am referring to the achievements in the biotechnology sector and our researchers, especially those that work in the field of gene and cell therapies, recently authorized by the EMA and which see Italy as the leading international player, which deserve greater importance. Undoubtedly there is also the positive aspect of a cultural growth and an energetic push that the EMA can determine in Italy, not only within the Lombardy territory, but throughout the country. I conclude by saying that the commitment made by the Government on this side has been effective and timely, because having allocated 54 million euros for the realization of the headquarters of the EMA in Milan is a clear sign of attention and energetic affirmation of a will with which we present ourselves in the European panorama with the papers in order and with a granite and unanimous will of the country, without if and without but. The recommendation with which I conclude is that the undoubted effects of benefit and the economic, cultural and scientific repercussions deriving from the EMA in Italy, in Milan, must certainly be able to represent a benefit for the area of the Milanese and Lombard district, but also for the whole country, trying to involve, through an operational virtuosity, those parts of the Mezzogiorno of Italy that are themselves points of excellence within this sector. In the light of these observations and of these reasons and very much appreciating the effort made through the motions and the synthesis made in them of this whole issue, with a note of particular appreciation for the work carried out by Senator Mandelli, I announce the vote firmly in favour of all the motions by the Senators of the GAL Group. [[Applause from the LAG Group (DI, GS, MPL, RP).]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-09-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-887.ana.u60	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-09-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-887.ana.u61	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-09-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-887.ana.u62	Orellana (Aut (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT)-PSI-MAIE). Mr President, I shall try to be brief. I am very pleased that we are going, as I understand it, towards a unanimous vote for the candidacy of Milan; I did not take it for granted and this I am pleased. I'd just like to make a few notes about what I heard. In particular, Mr Crimi pointed out a problem with which I agree, with regard to the issue of the possible presence of stakeholders, both public and private, in the relationship with the Agency: I would say that there is a need for a rule governing and regulating lobbying also towards the European Agencies. The proposal for an agreement of 627 final 2016, which calls for the extension of the lobby register, is under discussion, while it becomes mandatory, since it is currently applied only to the European Parliament and the European Commission; it is also being extended to the European Council and, at this point, I would also add to the Agencies. With regard to what Mr Comaroli has said and the call for President Gentiloni Silveri, I believe that unfortunately, given the voting procedure, nothing can be demanded in particular, because we vote by secret ballot and there is no certainty as to who will vote. At the procedural level everything is already well defined and there may be more scrutiny; at the first ballot, each country has six votes available, to be assigned to three candidate cities, assigning three votes to the favorite, two votes to the second and one vote to the third, not voting at all the others. Therefore, at the first ballot 162 votes are available, i.e. six votes for each of the 27 States, and the city will be awarded the highest score by 14 States, thus receiving 14 times the vote by three. If this does not happen - which is very likely - we will move to a second round, to which only the three candidates who have had the most votes will access. In the second round, each country will have only one vote available, with a total of 27 votes. In this case, if one of the three remaining cities takes 14 votes, it will be elected. If this does not happen, we will go to a further third round, in which they will compete only the first two, in a real ballot, based on the 27 votes available, in which it is likely that one of the two will take at least 14 votes. 11:52 a.m. (Follows ORELLANA). However, since there may be someone who does not vote or abstain, it is envisaged that there will be a case of equality and that there will even be a draw. This is to say that it will be a long and difficult game, that at this point will be very much played on the political fact when you arrive at votes of this type. The consideration of the six objective criteria, which I mentioned earlier, sees Milan as being largely advantageous, apart from the so-called geographical criterion, of which I spoke in my speech in general debate and on which we need the utmost attention. I believe that among the objective criteria is very important what the Undersecretary Pizzetti mentioned, remembering that only Milan and Barcelona - which I believe is weakened for political reasons by the Catalan referendum - have structures ready and already available, while the others still have to build them. I believe that this is fundamental and must be considered very positively. Returning to the political discourse, Italy cannot claim anything, because there is the secret vote, but it must do a job of contact, of creating consensus and also of just claim, in the sense that I have indicated, compared to other countries. With regard to the motions under consideration, our Group will vote in favour, in accordance with the indications and rewordings proposed by the Undersecretary Pizzetti. [[Applause from Senator Bencini.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-09-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-887.ana.u63	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-09-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-887.ana.u64	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-09-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-887.ana.u65	WHITE (AP-CpE-NCD). Mr President, I would begin by saying that we do not think it is obvious or trivial to discuss such matters as the one we are discussing in the Senate House, and for many reasons: one of all is that when Parliament speaks and discusses what is of interest to Italy and such sensitive matters it always does its duty. At this moment, with the motions under consideration, we give strength to an initiative that the Government, in a meritorious way, is carrying out, in order to carry out a strategic operation, concerning the transfer of an important entity like the EMA in Italy and, in particular, in Lombardy. So it is neither obvious nor trivial that we all express ourselves in this House in favour of a strategic operation for our country. An operation that is strategic for our researchers, for our industries and for our GDP, above all, because our position in Europe is to have burdens, but also honors. And this would certainly be a great honor for Italy. So, there should be no and there can be no divisions of any kind. Can there be different feelings? Of course we do, but we all have to achieve the goal together. The Lombardy MPs have done well to gather and to make a common body to win this battle; the Italian MEPs have done well to do the same. Well they have done the Region, the Municipality and the Province of Lombardy and we do well to tighten around the Government in this great battle. Colleagues, having the EMA in Italy is no small matter, colleagues have already said so and I want to reiterate it. The EMA in Italy means an extraordinary enhancement of the entire industrial supply chain of drugs and research against which we are principles in Europe and in the world. We say it with our heads high and everyone recognizes it. Recognizing the headquarters of the EMA in Italy means operating an extraordinary hinge on everything that is the best of all scientific research and scientific innovation and we will do so in Italy. Having such an important regulatory body in our home means not only having researchers, great scientific powers and everything that follows, but also having a huge cultural substrate that we must welcome with full hands. Losing this opportunity would be like losing a strategic opportunity, and know, colleagues, that if we miss it only because someone thinks that they can succeed in the defeat of Italy in this battle, as in other situations we have done - I would like to stress this - we will have to respond to it all over Italy. I believe that the motions we are examining today are important, not trivial and not obvious. They are important because they say that Parliament, and in particular the Senate of the Republic, is together with the Government, the bodies and all those who are putting their commitment to this battle. We're here, too. We want to be there from here to the solution to the problem. We want to celebrate together with Lombardy a great result that, not only for Lombardy, but for our researchers, for our Italy, for all of us would be a great reason for boasting. We will vote absolutely in accordance with all the indications that the Government has given us today regarding the motions presented. [[Applause from the AP-CpE-NCD and PD Groups. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-09-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-887.ana.u66	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-09-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-887.ana.u67	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-09-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-887.ana.u68	PETRAGLIA (Misto-SI-SEL). Mr President, the Italian Left will also vote in favour of the motions that have been tabled. Indeed, we would have liked to see a joint motion signed by all the groups. We will also vote in favour of the G1 agenda, presented by the 5 Star Movement, because the issue they have put is very important, namely the need to avoid proliferation and the construction of other infrastructures, committing to the use of existing ones. We have read that President Maroni has made available the headquarters of the Lombardy Region; we, for example, had proposed the possibility to use the EXPO site in Milan, but the important thing is to avoid the proliferation of infrastructures also because the Milanese area is widely equipped, as has been said in many interventions and by Lombard parliamentarians, with special riches also from this point of view. Surely we support and support the work that the Government, the regional institutions of Lombardy and the City of Milan are doing, because it is certainly an important battle to do. We would like to add a small but not completely irrelevant consideration. We hope that the transfer of the Agency's headquarters from London to Milan will also be an opportunity to review the role and operating methods of the EMA, because in its years of activity there have been so many remarks made on the subalternity to the interests of the pharmaceutical industries and above all on the lack of transparency of the decisions, precisely because of the close collaboration with the manufacturing industries and the omission of useful information. We believe that, precisely because it is an Agency that protects and promotes public health through the evaluation and supervision of medicines that are placed on the market, the issues of data transparency, knowledge and, above all, third parties, in order to avoid conflicts of interest, must be one of the fundamental points. Our battle to make Milan the seat of the EMA cannot be separated from the demand for a real policy of transparency. For these reasons we will vote in favour, knowing that this is not the only system for discussing the dysfunctions of the current pharmacovigilance system, but in the belief that the arrival of the EMA in Milan will also help to change procedures to protect public health. [[Applause from the Misso-SI-SEL Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-09-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-887.ana.u69	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-09-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-887.ana.u70	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-09-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-887.ana.u71	CRIMI (M5S). Mr President, we will vote in favour of the motions and the request to continue supporting the Milan candidacy for the EMA. We also appreciate the Government's willingness to accept the agenda that we have presented, which is not intended to demagogic, as someone said, but simply to take note of a situation in fact and that the Lombardy Region has given the availability of a property, so that there is no need for further construction. It is therefore an intervention that aims exclusively to offer the best place, because I believe that the candidacy of Milan, which meets the six criteria laid down by the European Union, has better requirements than other cities. I would also like to stress one aspect. The requirements include access to the world of work for the family members of employees and technicians who will work within the Agency. This is sacrosanct because it is necessary to encourage and facilitate the movement of these workers, who are not guilty of Brexit. However, this intervention means that there is a possibility on the part of the Government to intervene with some economic operation, incentive or other in favour of employment. So, I wonder: if this can be done for the family members of 600 employees or 3,000 technicians who will be around the Agency, why is it not possible to envisage the setting up of similar measures, at least doubled, in order to facilitate the access to work of young people, from Milan and beyond, within the framework of the same operation? Therefore, I invite the Government, when it puts in place all the regulations necessary to guarantee the maximum possibility of access to work for the family members of employees, to ensure that these are aimed at producing a capacity for access to work, equal to at least twice the catchment area that will have to benefit from incentives or facilities, so that this opportunity can also be extended to young people - and not only young people - Milanese and non-Milanese. For the rest, we hope that transparency will be the key element in all the operations that will lead from here on to the final decision. As far as the appropriations already put in place and the expenditure already incurred are concerned, we do not yet have a clear record of what has been spent. The Minister of Health spoke of a hundred experts: we would like to have a non-economic report, but of the activity carried out by this committee of experts and not only announcements via Twitter, Facebook or press releases. We would like to see appropriate mechanisms put in place by the Government to prevent the pharmaceutical companies and the entire world that revolves around the drug in Lombardy, Milan in particular, throwing themselves fish on this agency, as if it were a new cow to milk for a sector that - let's face it, it is useless that we hide it - is economically flourishing thanks also to what the current Government has realized in recent years, last the decree on the obligatoryness of vaccines. Having said that, we hope that Milan will be chosen as the seat of the Agency and we hope - as always - that everything will happen with maximum transparency, unlike what unfortunately happened in the past for other choices. We will watch and we will always be breathing on your neck, so that this does not become yet another opportunity of waste or aimed at generating other conflicts of interest, perhaps making them pass on track. However, we shall be voting in favour of the motions before us. [[Applause from Senator Marton.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-09-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-887.ana.u72	I greet, on behalf of the Assembly, a delegation of members of the Assembly of representatives of the people of Tunisia, led by the Secretary-General, Madame Hajer Saraoui, present in the gallery in the context of the parliamentary twinning between Italy and Tunisia. Welcome to the Senate of the Republic.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-09-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-887.ana.u73	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-09-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-887.ana.u74	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-09-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-887.ana.u75	MANDELLI (FI-PdL XVII). Mr President, I would like to make a few comments before announcing the intentions of Forza Italia to vote. I am particularly pleased to have participated today in a very important debate on a subject that I believe is at the heart of the whole Parliament, because I believe it is at the heart of the whole country system. The debate comes at a right time, because in a few days, on September 30th, there will be a first shake of the nominations and then, from October 20th to November 20th, it will come to the final choice. Why, in the light of these dates, is today's debate important? Precisely because today, in the Senate, we are about to vote on a motion, which will be examined on Monday by the Chamber of Deputies, whose objective is to give strength to the Government in supporting the candidacy of Milan as the seat of the transfer of the European Medicines Agency. This is a very important objective, because this agency will help us in the future too, it will help the next generations, it will monitor the quality of the drug and, therefore, on the health of Italians and of all European citizens. I would like to remind you that today's initiative in the Senate, to which, as I said before, will surely be added that of the House next Monday, when the discussion of motions on the EMA is scheduled, goes hand in hand with the initiative that a few days ago the companies wanted to bring in support of this candidacy. We had an important moment precisely in Brussels, when Confindustria, Farmindustria, Federchimica, Fondazione Milano for Expo 2015, Chamber of Commerce of Milan, Monza and Brianza, Assolombarda wanted to give the significant impulse of the world of doing, of the enterprise, of the associations, who ask that this vote is also interpreter of their will to bring the Agency of the drug to Italy. I believe that this motion should stress the need for technical assessments to take precedence over political ones. Milan has the cards in order, because the Italian research, the Italian company and the country system are in the best condition to welcome this agency so important. Therefore, this political unity on the eve of this challenge, with eighteen cities that have put forward a candidacy (all authoritative, even if I personally consider them inferior to Milan), is important. I would like to make a comment on what I heard a few minutes ago from some of my colleagues. The operational continuity is definitely our strength. Beyond the Regional Council of Lombardy, the President of the Lombardy Region Maroni, who granted for a year the gratuitousness of the seat (which will then clearly be paid, and I tell Senator Barani to reassure him), what is important is that quitting working in England will mean after a few days being able to work in Milan. This is really the strength in the continuity of operation that we can boast of compared to all the other applications. At the six points I mentioned earlier, considered important in order to be able to assign the EMA headquarters, we provide excellent answers. Operational continuity, excellence, the Lombard system that works and the country system that wants this opportunity: this is why it is important to bring EMA to Milan. But I also stress the effort we are making to make our country become central in the world of research: I am thinking of Human Technopole, which can be an important synergy to enhance the work that I really hope can be done in Milan. Therefore, we shall vote in favour of all motions, including the first-signed motions by Senator De Biasi and Senator Barani, as well as the agenda of Senator Crimi. I will make a little remark that is not polemic, because it is definitely not in my style. I am convinced, Senator Crimi, that Italy cannot give up on evolving for the risks arising from innovation. We must do things right - that is another reason - but we must also accept the risk of moving forward, because everything new can lead to problems, but we must see how they are dealt with. That is why, despite the content of their motion, we will vote favorably: because the real challenge of the country is not not to do things, but to do them right, trying to make sure that everything is done according to correct criteria, in full transparency and in the full will to do things as they must be done, but also in the certainty that the country must go ahead and assume its responsibilities. It is in this sense that I believe that the vote in favour of these motions can help the Government to say that the country and Parliament want the EMA in Italy, and that Italy wants to be the protagonist in Europe, of a Europe that we want different, but that we want to help change. [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII and Senator Mazzoni.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-09-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-887.ana.u76	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-09-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-887.ana.u77	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-09-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-887.ana.u78	WHITE (PD). Mr President, I will only make very few quick comments before the explanation of vote, although these are considerations which have already been raised in this House in the presentation of motions, in the subsequent debate and in the explanations of vote. I will make a particular consideration. I agree with those who said that the act we are about to take is not formal and trivial. It is an important act that, of course, fits in in a functional and politically valid way in a process, that have already remembered the presenters of the motions but that has pointed out, very well and rigorously, the undersecretary Pizzetti. Our country is committed, from the day after Brexit, to support the candidacy of Milan as headquarters of the EMA. There have been so many considerations, which I do not repeat and which I agree with. There is one that must make us even more think and support this project. The drug today is an element in great change. The new drugs are now real biotechnology. They determine and stress, above all, national systems such as ours, based on solidarity and fairness. Therefore, this means bringing all the great innovations to the availability of each according to the needs. This is an extraordinary feat. Really, then, there is a need for a policy of drug governance, for what has become the drug today, up to the times and this challenge. As has already been said, there are all the conditions for Milan, its cultural and urbanistic habitat, the infrastructure network of transport, hotel, training, primary, secondary and tertiary education, of its research field, to be, and be, the most appropriate location. We have rightly said that the EMA in Milan is a chance, certainly for Milan, and a great chance for Italy. I would like to add that the EMA in Milan is a chance for Europe and its international agencies. For these reasons, the Group of the Party of European Socialists will vote in favour of all the motions and the G1 agenda. [[Applause from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-09-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-887.ana.u79	Before we proceed to the vote, I warn you that, in line with established practice, motions will be put to the vote in the order of presentation. Following the vote on motions for resolutions pursuant to Rule 160 of the Rules of Procedure, the G1 agenda will be put to the vote (text 2). We shall now proceed to the vote on motion No 724 (text 3). MARTELLI (M5S). We call for simultaneous ballots to be carried out by electronic means. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of motion No 724 (text 3), tabled by Senator Mandelli and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of motion No 836, tabled by Senator De Biasi and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of motion No 837 (text 2), tabled by Senator Candiani and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B).
ParlaMint-IT_2017-09-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-887.ana.u80	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-09-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-887.ana.u81	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-09-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-887.ana.u82	PUPPATE (PD). Mr President, I was unable to vote during the previous vote. I say that my intention was to vote in favour.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-09-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-887.ana.u83	The Presidency takes note of this. I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of motion No 838 (text 2), tabled by Senator Barani and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of the agenda G1 (text 2), presented by Senator Crimi and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B).
ParlaMint-IT_2017-09-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-887.ana.u84	The next item is the debate on draft law Nos. 302, 1019, 1151, 1789 and 1907. The rapporteur, Senator Russo, has requested authorisation to carry out the oral report. No comments were made and the request was accepted. I therefore call the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-09-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-887.ana.u85	Mr President, I would like to reassure the House that I will not repeat what was said here on 18 May when I had the opportunity to present the law. I am speaking only to table some of the rapporteur's amendments, which I would ask the Presidency to forward to the 5th Commission, so that we will be ready on Tuesday to deal with the measure. I want to remember two things: it is a law that - I think - we all feel obliged to try to bring home because we are the last country in Europe that has not yet regulated on the subject and I think it can be a good answer also to the Italian deaf people who will find themselves in Padua this weekend for the world day of deaf people. It would represent an important signal from this House. I repeat that many of the amendments tabled are strictly procedural and only a couple are contentious. We wanted to gather what emerged in the general debate already in the first stage of the presentation of the measure in this House. The goal is to get everyone to share this law. I hope - and I shall have the opportunity to return to it in reply - that the amendments tabled will help us finally to understand that this law is for the deaf Italians and does not favour the one or the other association representing them. It does not want to be a choice of field, but of civilization to recognize a right that only our country's legislation in Europe does not recognize today. [[Applause from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-09-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-887.ana.u86	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-09-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-887.ana.u87	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-09-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-887.ana.u88	Mr Rizzotti (FI-PdL XVII). Mr President, I have not heard the deadline for submitting sub-amendments to the rapporteur's amendment, which we have not yet been able to examine.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-09-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-887.ana.u89	We must set the deadline, not the rapporteur. I'd propose tomorrow at 12:00. CALIENDO (FI-PdL XVII). Monday at 12 o'clock! PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Colleagues, let us do it tomorrow at 6 p.m., because the 5th Commission has commitments. Let us give her the opportunity to receive the amending proposals as soon as possible, because she is then engaged with the Note of variation. The deadline for submitting the sub-amendments to the amendment by the rapporteur, Mr Russo, is therefore set for tomorrow at 6 p.m. I would like to ask for the amendments to be distributed to the groups very quickly. The Members concerned know that the deadline expires - I repeat this for the third time - tomorrow at 6 p.m.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-09-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-887.ana.u90	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-09-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-887.ana.u91	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-09-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-887.ana.u92	Mr Rizzotti (FI-PdL XVII). Mr President, we have listened to Senator Russo's report and we know that there is an expectation throughout the country, in one sense or another, of the draft law under discussion, which is considered by many to be absolutely useless and pleonastic. PRESIDENT. - The debate is Senator, you must speak on the order of business, we will be discussing this at another time. Mr Rizzotti (FI-PdL XVII). Mr President, I would like to make a point of order and ask for the quorum to be checked. (Brusio).
ParlaMint-IT_2017-09-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-887.ana.u93	Colleagues, the rapporteur considers his report to be a turning point, because it is in fact a resumption of the subject, which we have already begun the debate. This is therefore a second phase of a matter which had already arisen in this House. Senator Rizzotti then announced the submission of a question for a preliminary ruling and asked for a quorum check.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-09-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-887.ana.u94	I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators, by electronic procedure. (The request is supported). I therefore call on the senators to make their presence known by electronic means. (Follows the quorum check.) The Senate is not a quorum. I therefore suspend the sitting. (The sitting was suspended at 12.26 p.m. and resumed at 12.46 p.m.)
ParlaMint-IT_2017-09-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-887.ana.u95	Colleagues, I think the situation is quite clear.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-09-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-887.ana.u96	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-09-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-887.ana.u97	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-09-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-887.ana.u98	Mr Rizzotti (FI-PdL XVII). Mr President, I would once again ask for the quorum to be checked.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-09-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-887.ana.u99	Senator Rizzotti, if you like, you could appreciate the circumstances. I therefore repeat that the sub-amendments to the amendments tabled by the rapporteur on draft law No 302 and related - Italian sign language, will have to be tabled by 6 p.m. tomorrow, Friday 29 September. I therefore refer you to the continuation of the discussion of the drafts of law in other session.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-09-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-887.ana.u100	Ladies and gentlemen, Senator Ciampolillo, acting as proposer, asked for a statement of urgency on draft law No 2768, which: Changes to the single text of the laws on the discipline of narcotic drugs and psychotropic substances, the prevention, treatment and rehabilitation of their drug addiction states, as provided for in the decree of the President of the Republic of 9 October 1990, n. 309, concerning the cultivation and consumption of cannabis and its derivatives for therapeutic use. Pursuant to Rule 77, paragraph 1, of the Rules of Procedure, the discussion on this request will be placed on the agenda of the sitting of Tuesday, October 3, 2017. The vote will be taken by show of hands.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-09-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-887.ana.u101	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-09-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-887.ana.u102	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-09-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-887.ana.u103	EXPOSED Stefano (PD). Mr President, I rise again in this House, just over a week after my previous speech, to raise the issue of the SDA hubs, which in the meantime has got worse. Mr President, I know that you are very attentive to telecommunications issues and I would ask you to pay attention because it could help to raise further awareness of the Government. In these days the blocks and pickets have multiplied from the unions Si Cobas and Sol Cobas, minority acronyms within the 9,000 workers, direct and indirect, of the SDA, that they are producing a dramatic reduction of the operativity of the company. Worker integration and mobility procedures have already been put in place by the company. The hubs involved last week were those of Bologna, Piacenza and Milan, where a few days ago there was a clash between workers that also led to accidents that were injured. In this situation, unfortunately, the absence, which I cannot explain, of prefects continues. On this morning I wrote an e-mail to Minister Minniti, asking to raise awareness of prefectures, also because last night the blocks began in Rome and Turin. The police, casually intervened at the beginning of the blockades, stopped a protester who was proceeding to pick up the gates of the company in possession of an axe. Given that the company is wholly owned by Poste Italiane, and I do not understand that in the current state Poste Italiane has asked the Ministry of the Interior for an intervention decided to guarantee, yes, the right to strike, but also to prevent this right from affecting the operation of the company and the work of 9,000 people in Italy, before something dramatic happens in front of these plants, I expect a decisive intervention - and please, Mr President, to be the bearer of this request with the Government - by the prefects of the affected areas, which I think are increasing and not decreasing. It is not acceptable, in fact, such conduct by minority acronyms, to which no one denies the right to demonstrate, even if it is not clear what the reasons for the strike are, because frankly I have had the opportunity to speak with the Confederal unions and no one understands what the trade union dispute is going on. I would also remind you that the representatives of these unions are the same ones who were arrested some time ago while taking a bribe from a company to end the strike. I therefore call for immediate intervention by the Ministry of the Interior. [[Applause from Senator Favero.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-09-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-887.ana.u104	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-09-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-887.ana.u105	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-09-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-887.ana.u106	Campanella (Art.1-MDP). Mr President, a few months ago we submitted the request to the Ministry of the Interior to assess the possibility of access to the Victoria market, in accordance with the anti-mafia legislation. It is a few days ago the news that in the operation "Exit poll" the Guardia di Finanza has executed custody orders on the former mayor of the Democratic Party and on his brother, Giuseppe Nicosia and Fabio Nicosia, who, in contact with representatives of organized crime, would incur the crime of political-mafia exchange. Moreover, the candidate mayor of the Democratic Party's competitor would have been supported at the time of the ballot by the two and would also be investigated. All this happens in a situation of embarrassment for the Democratic Party, in a situation of embarrassment for the center-right, because the mayor is one of the supporters of the candidate President of the center-right in Sicily, and it happens in the silence of the Movimento 5 Stars victoriase (among other things we are not accustomed to the silence of the Movimento 5 Stars and the thing seems a bit curious). In this question we members of the Article 1-MDP Group ask the Ministry of the Interior to evaluate these facts in order to bring back the certainty of the cleanliness of the administrative activity within the Municipality of Vittoria, which - I remind myself and everyone - lives a situation of socio-economic discomfort, both for the situation of crisis of agriculture, induced also by the relations with the large organized distribution, and for a series of attacks of clear mafia matrix, and for a strange situation for which the buildings placed on mortgage guarantee of the loans demanded by the victorious farmers are regularly sold at vile prices, creating conditions for which these people reach absolute ruin, losing their real estate and remaining liable. The consequence is that debtors and creditor banks are being harmed, to the benefit of buyers who are able to win goods at prices that are frankly derisory. We would therefore like the Ministry of the Interior to turn carefully to the city of Vittoria and take the measures that seem to me to be practically consequential at this point.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-09-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-887.ana.u107	The motions, questions and questions received by the Presidency will be published in Annex B to today's report.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-09-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-887.ana.u108	The Senate will meet again in public session on Tuesday, 3 October, at 4.30 p.m., with the following agenda: (See agenda) The sitting was closed at 12.57).
