ParlaMint-IT_2017-04-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-805.ana.u1	The sitting was opened at 11:01 a.m. The Minutes shall be read. Mr Frevezzi, Secretary, gave a reading of the Minutes of the afternoon sitting on 6 April.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-04-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-805.ana.u2	I'm asking to talk. [[Out of the microphone.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-04-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-805.ana.u3	Looks like there's a malfunction of the audio system. To allow it to be restored, I briefly suspend our work. (The sitting was suspended at 11.05 a.m. and resumed at 11.11 a.m.) The session is resumed. The audio system has been restored.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-04-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-805.ana.u4	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-04-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-805.ana.u5	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-04-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-805.ana.u6	SANTANGELO (M5S). Mr President, I would like to ask for the vote on the Minutes, subject to a quorum check.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-04-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-805.ana.u7	I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators, by electronic procedure. (The request is supported). I therefore call on the senators to make their presence known by electronic means. (Follows the quorum check.) The Senate is not a quorum. I therefore suspend the sitting. (The sitting was suspended at 11.12 a.m. and resumed at 11.33 a.m.)
ParlaMint-IT_2017-04-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-805.ana.u8	We shall now proceed to the vote on the Minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-04-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-805.ana.u9	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-04-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-805.ana.u10	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-04-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-805.ana.u11	SANTANGELO (M5S). Mr President, let us renew the request for a quorum check.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-04-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-805.ana.u12	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-04-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-805.ana.u13	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-04-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-805.ana.u14	Mr Russo (PD). Mr President, I would like to point out that, at the same time as our work, a session of the Parliamentary Commission is taking place for the general direction and supervision of broadcasting services, during which important votes will take place. From the calculations made, the members of the majority who are working here today would be sufficient to guarantee the quorum. First of all, I would ask you, therefore, to point out this overlap to the Presidency. Secondly, I would like to ask colleagues to take this into account and to allow us to work on important motions this morning. I hope that, starting with this afternoon's Conference of Leaders, the management of motions will also be clarified, but I think it would be important to give the signal that we are able to work this morning. [[Applause from the PD Group and Senator Bencini.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-04-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-805.ana.u15	Senator Russo, the issue had also emerged at the Conference of the Leaders, but it was decided to proceed in this way.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-04-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-805.ana.u16	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-04-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-805.ana.u17	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-04-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-805.ana.u18	PETROCELLI (M5S). Mr President, I take seriously what Senator Russo has just said, and I will do so even more on the day that the Bureau or at least the Conference of Leaders will put on the agenda a first-signed motion by the 5 Star Movement. For the rest, all his considerations can also be taken into account. [[Applause from the M5S Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-04-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-805.ana.u19	Senator, if you can even keep them, you've closed a nice surgery.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-04-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-805.ana.u20	I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request for verification of the quorum, previously made by Senator Santangelo, is supported by the prescribed number of senators, by electronic procedure. (The request is supported). I therefore call on the senators to make their presence known by electronic means. (Follows the quorum check.) The Senate is not a quorum. I therefore suspend the sitting. (The sitting was suspended at 11.36 a.m. and resumed at 11.56 a.m.) The session is resumed.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-04-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-805.ana.u21	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-04-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-805.ana.u22	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-04-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-805.ana.u23	FORNARO (Art. 1-MDP). Mr President, I would like to draw the attention of the Presidency and of my fellow Members to one fact. As Mr Russo pointed out earlier, at 10 a.m. the parliamentary committee was convened for the general direction and supervision of broadcasting services. I went there and, of course, at 10.50 a.m. I left and I came here because I believe that this House is prevalent. After that, I do not discuss the right of colleagues, who are not the subject of my speech, to ask for the quorum to be checked, but I raise a question of overlapping frankly unacceptable calendars. I believe that my right has been harmed: I am here and I cannot take part in the RAI Monitoring Committee votes. I hope that events like this will never happen again. [[Applause from the Groups Art.1-MDP and PD.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-04-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-805.ana.u24	Senator Fornaro, as I said earlier, the issue of overlapping has already emerged during the Conference of Leaders and, despite this, it has been decided to maintain the timetable for the work of both the House and the Commission. I would rather reflect on a bigger problem that could be tackled by the Committee on the Rules of Procedure than this step. But as long as the Rules of Procedure remain the current one, I intend to apply them to the letter.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-04-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-805.ana.u25	We shall now proceed to the vote on the Minutes. SANTANGELO (M5S). Mr President, I would like to ask for a quorum check. Verification of the quorum Mr President. I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators, by electronic procedure. (The request is supported). I therefore call on the senators to make their presence known by electronic means. (Follows the quorum check.) The Senate has a quorum. Resumption of the debate on the Minutes I put the Minutes to the vote. It's approved.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-04-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-805.ana.u26	The list of senators on leave and absent on assignment received from the Senate, as well as further communications to the Assembly, will be published in Annex B to today's Minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-04-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-805.ana.u27	I would warn you that qualified votes can be taken in the course of today's sitting by electronic means. Therefore, from this moment the period of twenty minutes from the notice provided for in Article 119, paragraph 1 of the Regulation (11:58 hours).
ParlaMint-IT_2017-04-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-805.ana.u28	The next item is the debate on motions 1-00603 (text 2), tabled by Senator Romani Maurizio and other Senators, 1-00774, tabled by Senator Mandelli and other Senators, 1-00776, tabled by Senator Gaetti and other Senators, 1-00777, presented by Senator Council and other Senators, 1-00779, presented by Senator Barani and other Senators, 1-00780, presented by Senator D'Ambrosio Lettieri and other Senators, 1-00781, presented by Senator De Biasi and other Senators, 1-00605 (text 2), presented by Senator D'Ambrosio Lettieri and other Senators, 1-00614, presented by Senator Guerra and other Senators, on hepatitis C and Stomized Subjects. I call Senator Romani Maurizio to explain motion No 603 (text 2).
ParlaMint-IT_2017-04-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-805.ana.u29	Mr President, first of all, I would like to ask you whether it is possible to combine the time available to me for the explanation of the motion with that for my speech in general, so as to make a single statement.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-04-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-805.ana.u30	The Presidency authorizes it to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-04-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-805.ana.u31	ROMANI Maurizio (Misto-Idv). My motion on hepatitis C saw the light in June 2016, when I was warned by Professor Massimo Colombo - he is, among other things, president of the International Liver Foundation in Geneva and director of the Translational Research Centre in hepatology Humanitas Research Hospital in Rozzano, Italy, and therefore not just the last arrival - that at the congress that would be held in 2016 in Barcelona would be presented for the first time the study "Redemption" by Dr James Freeman. This study demonstrates the absolute effectiveness and safety of oral treatments for hepatitis C with generic licensed products of pharmaceutical companies that own the licensed drugs and to date the marketing of generic drugs is not allowed, the purchase price of which is 40 to 400 times lower than that of brands, outside the countries for which there is a commercial contract of territorial exclusive. From the latest data produced by Professor Freeman, more than a million patients with excellent results were treated with the generic drug in Egypt. I would like to point out to this House that these are the total number of patients who have used the brand in the world. It is, therefore, for the eradication of hepatitis C by 2030 it is certainly useful to spread the use of generic and not that of the brand at prohibitive costs. I started from this because I first presented a text 1 of the motion in 2016 and then a text 2. AIFA decided to start with the Hepatitis C Eradication Plan by placing Harvoni and Sovaldi (Gilead) drugs in the C-belt, the non-refundable one, then treating with the company a third drug that would be able to treat all genotypes of the infection. I think it should be made very clear that the market here has nothing to do with it. We have only one seller (the one holding the patent) and only one buyer (the State in Italy, the insurance in the United States). Therefore, the price depends not on the patient's spending capacity - as the market rules provide - but on the will of the state. If the government tells patients to go and buy the medicine in India it takes no responsibility and does as Pontius Pilate, wash his hands of it. In fact, it does worse, because it discriminates between those who can afford to travel economically and the related expenses for the purchase of the drug and those who cannot To afford it. In addition, to recommend buying a drug via the Internet means not knowing absolutely or underestimating the risk that this entails for the health of the patient, who can fall into the hands of speculators, indeed sometimes to real scammers, who provide him with a tarocked drug. Whose fault will it be if this purchase causes serious damage to the patient? Of the doctor who prescribes it, of who has not checked or of who has allowed this mode of purchase? It should be borne in mind, among other things, that in Lombardy, where more than 7,000 patients with cirrhosis or pre-cirrhosis were treated, mean recovery rates of 93 percent were achieved in patients treated according to international recommendations, while for those not strictly managed the success rate was 87 percent. This is the danger of having patients manage their own disease by going to get the medicine by their own means. It should therefore be pointed out that in the motion to my first signature, moreover presented as text 1 in June 2016, a possibility was already stated to be able to treat a considerable number of patients with the same drug, which is now recommended to go and buy in India, taking advantage of the possibility to import it, doing an experiment like that made in Australia, with a result, using the generic Indian, perfectly comparable to the brand drug that Aifa bought from Gilead at a much higher price: I can not say precisely how much, since it is a negotiation still secreted. Text 2 of the motion at my first signature perfectly follows text 1, with the addition of the possibility to apply in this case our right to compulsory license. In the case of Gilead, a US Senate Commission noted that no significant economic effort in research and development can justify such a high price and that there is no legitimate proportion between the costs incurred and the price requested. A real and existing solution is provided for in Articles 30 and 31 of the Trips (Trade related aspects of intellectual property rights) agreements, which deal with the commercial aspects of intellectual property rights. According to these rules, States have the right to exercise the compulsory licence (or, rather, a licence of use): in the light of an abuse of the power of the patent by the company that owns the patent, determined by a non-agreement due to the imposition of unreasonable prices for licences, and in the presence of a medical emergency, it is possible to activate a license (not exclusive and for a reasonable period of time) in favour of the requesting country, provided that there is no exploitation of the patent that does not comply with its actual use and provided that a fair compensation is guaranteed, taking into account the economic value of the authorisation granted by the company holding the patent. If a compulsory licence were obtained, local pharmaceutical companies would be able to produce a generic drug in a reasonable period of time to address health needs. There is no doubt that the speculative activity carried out by pharmaceutical companies irreparably harms the conditions of States which cannot guarantee their patients the necessary care, but above all no right of privacy, however legitimate it may be, can put in the background the right to health and access to medicines of every citizen. The National Committee for Bioethics expressed, on a motion of 22 February 2017, its view on the case of hepatitis C and the unprecedented rationing of life-saving medicines. We have come to this: many patients do not have free access to these medicines because the National Health Service is unable to provide them because of their high price. This means that, in the case of hepatitis C therapy medications, only the most serious patients are treated, whereas those who are at an early stage, in order to receive therapy, must wait for their condition to deteriorate. This is a contradiction to the ethical principles of medicine, which should always be oriented towards the prevention and care of all patients, and to the same objective of limiting the costs of the National Health System because it refers the treatment to the advanced stages of the pathology, leads to chronicization outcomes and, in the long term, to predictable additional costs for our National Health System. More or less serious discrimination between patients is therefore unacceptable, especially since the disproportionate price of the drug in many cases does not come from the costs of research and development, as I said before. The ethical principle of equal and universal access to care must prevail over profits. The determined and courageous stance of the National Federation of Medical Orders calls for the new drugs to be made available to all patients. The ethical principle must prevail over every right, even more if it is commercial. In one word, this means one thing: the state must produce generic drugs because, with this system, it could widen the base of those who treat hepatitis C. [[Applause from the Mixed Group and Senator Dirindin.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-04-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-805.ana.u32	I call Senator Mandelli to explain motion No 774.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-04-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-805.ana.u33	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the data on this issue in itself are very important and significant. There are about 435,000 cases known to the National Health Service of chronic hepatitis C virus carriers, according to the University Only 5 percent of these subjects could be treated with these antiviral drugs which, objectively, are changing the course of treatment because, in the face of a disease that had a precise diagnosis and an evident outcome, now, with the contribution of these miraculous findings of human ingenuity, you can heal from the disease and then eradicate the virus. Of course, the problem is economic. The Court for the Rights of the Sick and the Association of Epac Patients report that many patients are forced to order this medicine online to make treatment possible and therefore their healing from the disease. We are faced with an endemic pathology that really affects a large part of the population. In May 2016, the World Health Organisation decided on the Global Eradication Programme for HCV by 2030; consequently, Aifa also redefined the strategies for access to hepatitis C treatment on the basis of clinical urgency and therefore also sought to ensure the sustainability of the National Health Service. Aifa herself, on 8 March 2017, rewritten the treatment criteria for chronic therapy, developed in the plan for the eradication of infection, ensuring the treatment of hepatitis C to a larger number of patients than in the past, with the stated intention of achieving in a few years a complete eradication of the disease. The subject is what my colleague Mr Romani mentioned earlier: he reserves the treatment only to the most serious cases and, unfortunately, let the less serious cases become - it seems a contradiction but it is the reality - more serious before he can treat them. So we are faced with an important commitment that must be pursued and that echoes also in the words of Minister Lorenzin who says, precisely in these days, that it is necessary to find an ethical price, that is, a price that, while translating into the right remuneration for the pharmaceutical companies producing, is financially sustainable for the country that, as you know, does not pour into a rosy economic situation. With our motion we would like to commit the Government on three fronts: firstly, to take every useful initiative that supports the definition of an ethical purchase price charged by the National Health Service of the medicines for the treatment of hepatitis C; Secondly, to take concrete initiatives aimed at the eradication of the disease, thus guaranteeing access to treatment, not only for the most serious patients but also for those at the early stages of the disease; thirdly, to promote training and information programmes, targeted in particular at young people, on specific prophylactic measures aimed at eliminating or reducing the transmission of infections. [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-04-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-805.ana.u34	I call Senator Gaetti to explain motion No 776.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-04-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-805.ana.u35	Mr President, we have already seen in the illustrations of previous motions how important the issue of hepatitis C is, which involves many people: how many we do not yet know clearly, but the numbers would be important. All we know is that Dr. Pagani, on October 22, 2014, on "Il Sole 24 Ore" refers to one and a half million people affected. The national plan for the prevention of viral hepatitis, on page 5, speaks of over one million people affected, with 330,000 cases of cirrhosis. It would therefore be important to have better quantification. The other thing you never hear of is that these people, as we know, in a considerable number - estimated at 40-50 percent of cases - do come into contact with the virus, but this becomes chronically very slow, so they are practically considered almost healed. This slowdown could be accentuated by lifestyles, such as reduced consumption of alcohol, red meat, milk and cheese, as well as the absence of factors such as smoking, diabetes and obesity. Another important request, then, that we make is that it be explained to patients how their lifestyle could really improve the prognosis of the disease. Another element in the debate is the secrecy of the negotiations on the price of these medicines, with all that follows, in violation of all the provisions of the law regarding such important negotiations on the economic level; it really leaves much perplexed that they are conducted in such a confidential manner. I would also like to add, with respect to the proposals that have been made in recent days to reduce the price of these medicines in order to be able to administer them to the greatest number of people, which on the one hand is right, but must apply to people who are really ill. In fact, I would like to mention one aspect that has not been highlighted in any intervention, namely that in October 2016 the US FDA began to publish data on the first cases of serious side effects related to the use of these drugs: in the first months of administration 524 cases of acute liver failure associated with these drugs were identified, with 165 deaths. I would therefore like this element to be clarified: it is not that these drugs are fresh water, but they have their side effects of which we must be informed, so they must be given to patients not so restrictively as has happened so far, but not in such a broad way as we would like, because this would only serve to create a business. We must always be very careful when it comes to these issues. Finally, I would also like to associate myself with the considerations on compulsory licences, a little known, but to which the United States itself has resorted on numerous occasions, and not only in Mandela's South Africa with regard to the HIV problem. We do not understand how the government can be subject to certain pharmaceutical companies, who cannot justify the prices they impose with the fact that they have to pay the research when their budgets then present billionaire profits. It is clear that these prices are not justified. This has been demonstrated by the American Senate itself and by the Commission which it is responsible for. We therefore call for the Government to take charge of international action, because compulsory licensing requires an international process, so that it can be used in the desired sense. We also ask the government to ensure that patients are explained how lifestyles can affect their health. Above all, we must begin to carefully evaluate the side effects, which are widely described in other countries. In Italy I do not find publications in this sense, but only documents that accentuate the fact that many of those who also have hepatitis B, weakening in this case the immune system, are developing a hepatocarcinoma ahead of time compared to the standard population. Mr President, I conclude by saying that these are the fundamental elements and that we must overcome an economic logic in this area. [[Applause from the M5S Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-04-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-805.ana.u36	I call the Senator-Council to explain motion No 777.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-04-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-805.ana.u37	Mr President, this is our third motion which concerns the health of citizens: we passed from the motions on HIV a few weeks ago to those on Down's syndrome (which I hope will return to this House as soon as possible to be able to vote on them), to those on hepatitis C today. This shows, Mr President, a great desire on the part of this House to address the health problems of the citizens. The fact that these issues are brought to the House through the motions gives the impression that there is probably still much to be done. Today, as I said, we are talking about hepatitis C: around the world there are in fact 80 million people suffering from this disease. Our motion, which I am going to illustrate, starts from a due premise and a brief summary of what has been done: from the world congress on viruses and bacteria in Seattle, with the imperative and commitment to erase hepatitis C radically, to the paradoxical situation of the new drugs that work so well but cost "the wrath of God." The hope is to treat 80,000 Italians a year, and therefore 240,000 subjects suffering from this disease in the next three years. I also remember the eleven points that Aifa has identified with all its treatment criteria, which on paper should also lead to the treatment of patients who have less serious forms of chronic hepatitis C. We have also mentioned that all cases will have to be dealt with: as I said, they are 80,000 people per year and, therefore, 240,000 in three years. We have also highlighted the tragedy of people with hepatitis C who have difficulties in accessing treatment, new treatments that eradicate the virus. The fact that this situation is not worthy of a national health system that we want to call universal and fair has led us this morning to speak in this House. With our motion we are asking for very simple things, but perhaps they become extremely complicated in their application and implementation; these are three common sense demands. We call on the Government to implement immediately the new hepatitis C eradication plan. We have read a little about the interest in this contagious disease and the importance of its treatment all over the world - and my colleagues have also said so - so we ask that we make every effort to ensure that prices for access to medicines are as low as possible. We have heard in previous speeches how people continue to believe that there is a market on these medicines, whereas that is absolutely not true, because those who hold the patent charge the medicines as much as they want. Moreover, it is necessary to clarify point 8 of the eleven points drawn up by Aifa, in order to ensure that there is extreme clarity in the interpretation and identification of the cases and of the sick subjects to intervene on. In any case, in the course of the discussion and explanations of vote we will be more precise in emphasizing the inability of this Government to put in condition a state, which wants to define itself advanced, to care for its own citizens. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-04-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-805.ana.u38	I call Senator Barani to explain motion No 779.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-04-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-805.ana.u39	Mr President, our Group has already submitted five or six questions and questions to the Ministry on this very subject: the treatment of hepatitis C. The data is dramatic. In this morning's newspapers we can read that, according to Istat, we live three years less in the South than in the North: one of the five parameters that leads to the highest mortality in the South is that as a percentage there are more people suffering from hepatitis C and Italy is the European country where this virus is most widespread. A serious health ministry, which controls Aifa, should have posed this dilemma and this problem, which concerns a matter of public health, and should intervene to eradicate hepatitis C. The Aifa, the Ministry and the Istat say that in Italy there are between 1.3 and 2 million people with hepatitis C (but according to more alarming data we reach even 3 million) and that the transmission takes place through parenteral and sexual intercourse. This means that even those who are at the early stages of the disease - to which our Government does not allow to cure themselves to eradicate it - are an anointing of Manzoni's memory, because it brings its spread. The statistics, Mr President, show that 17,000 people per year - and I stress this figure - die because hepatitis C degenerates into cirrhosis and thus still causes death in Italy. Are we outraged - and rightly so - when tragedies occur in our country that lead to one, five or fifteen deaths and do we not do so in learning that 17,000 people die who might not die? This is done under the aegis of the Ministry of Health, which controls Aifa, which conducted a negotiation with the pharmaceutical companies, on the price of the medicine, which was secreted. It has thus brought to 79,000 euros the price of this medicine in my hand (shows a small box at the Assembly), which heals people and which is usually taken in Egypt and India. This in particular comes from Egypt and is produced by Gilead: the same, identical, in Italy costs 79,000 euros, price whose negotiation the Aifa has secreted, while in Egypt you buy 600 euros. Are you kidding me? The only difference is that here the package leaflet is written in Arabic: only for the translation in Italian does the drug cost 79.000 euros? A serious ministry, since it controls the Aifa, does not think to ask: But what are you secreting? The United States told the Aifa - and the Aifa is "statunitense" - that that price in the United States does not apply (even, the tempore, the CEO of one of these companies was also incarcerated, and Gilead is under the control of the Senate). Dear colleagues, something's wrong here. We have an obligation and we cannot afford the last directive of the Ministry of Health, which authorizes us to go to take the medicine abroad: but how can we tell our citizens to go online to India and have it sent home? Are you kidding me? Our Group, apart from the proposals made in this motion, believes that this Government has failed to deal with the disease we are talking about and health policy. For this reason we are preparing a motion of distrust on the government's health policy, not on the Minister, because here comes to break all the health policy of a Government that has not been able to make the arm wrestling with a multinational company and company that in Italy has only earned. I remember that in Italy you can produce the generic medicine because the formula exists and for public health issues we have the military pharmaceutical chemical plant in Florence, which can produce it at any time, at affordable prices at all. [[Applause from the ALA-SCCLP Group and the Senators Milo and Zuffada.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-04-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-805.ana.u40	I call Senator Liuzzi to explain motion No 780.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-04-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-805.ana.u41	Mr President, I am speaking in place of Senator D'Ambrosio Lettieri, the first signatory of the motion, who is currently voting on amendments to the Parliamentary Commission for the general direction and supervision of broadcasting services. There are 170 million people worldwide with HCV virus, responsible for hepatitis C. In Italy, the number of infected people, although not necessarily yet suffering from hepatitis C, exceeds 1,200,000. The Italian Drug Agency (Aifa), which is the body responsible for the treatment and definition of the cost of drugs, through a negotiation procedure lasting several months, defined and admitted the price of Sovaldi, produced by Gilead company and used for the treatment of chronic HCV hepatitis. It is paradoxical that in the world the cost of this drug varies depending on the average cost of living and bargaining made by each country. Mr Senators, The cost of drugs, in general, including those for the treatment of hepatitis C and Sovaldi, in particular, is considerably lower in areas where gross domestic product is significantly lower than in the countries of the Western bloc. This disparity in the costs of the same drug in the various world markets and the difficulty of patients to access treatment have given rise to so-called pharmacological tourism, to more accessible destinations, for example India, sadly also known in Italy. Last March 21, 2017, during a press conference, the President of Aifa also stated that all restrictions on access to new hepatitis C medicines have been removed and that a program for the elimination of infection from our country will be set up in three years. The new programme should be based not on the refundability of drugs, but on criteria for inclusion in treatment, according to which all patients with hepatitis C can be taken into account in specialised facilities and eliminate the path to treatment and treatment. Finally, all patients need to be treated immediately or they cannot wait for the program announced by Aifa to eradicate the disease to be implemented indefinitely. It is important to know that the plan for the eradication of the virus put precisely by Aifa and the Italian Government, which should cover all patients, provides a budget of 500 million per year for three years, sufficient to treat about 80,000 patients per year. This expenditure, which amounts to about 6,000 euros for each patient, appears to be clearly insufficient to meet the needs of all Italian patients. Our motion notes that the Sovaldi medicinal product is, to date, classified as one of the medicines not reimbursed by the National Health Service; that Gilead company would have made numerous proposals to treat all patients suffering from hepatitis C in a sustainable way for the National Health Service and would have stated its willingness to cooperate with Aifa and the Ministry of Health to identify a new treatment regime. Our motion therefore commits the Government, in the first place, to put in place every initiative suitable to implement, in a concrete way, the announced plan for the eradication of the hepatitis C virus, that is to foresee new and greater commitments of expenditure to this task; secondly, to put in place every initiative, in collaboration with the Regions, able to increase or increase the number of centers in charge of the care of hepatitis C, overcoming the many elements of criticality present today on the entire Italian territory. The motion also commits the Government to putting in place every initiative to prevent the risks of counterfeiting that patients are exposed to by going abroad; to promote a permanent discussion table with the other institutions responsible for this, patient associations, scientific societies and research bodies, to prepare a pharmaceutical plan suitable for the practical eradication of hepatitis C; to promote, in the most appropriate European fora, a common policy on research, promotion and marketing of fair and sustainable drugs; and to promote study activities aimed at stating with certainty which of the therapeutic schemes is better than the other.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-04-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-805.ana.u42	I call Senator De Biasi to explain motion No 781.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-04-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-805.ana.u43	Mr President, the figures have been set out in previous motions, so I do not share this. I would like to start with a few positive points. Sooner or later, however, Aifa has finally defined the treatment criteria for chronic hepatitis C therapy. The work has been carried out in collaboration with the Ministry of Health, scientific societies and patient associations; I would like to highlight this form of therapeutic alliance, which is one of the avenues for the future. The objective has been defined to facilitate access to new therapies for all patients with chronic hepatitis C, thus widening the audience, with the intention of eradicating the disease within a few years. It is clear that it is only the beginning: the work must still be developed and, precisely for this reason, I believe there are some elements to be defined. In particular, with reference to the objectives set out in the motion, we must first of all know that, as innovative medicines, there is obviously a problem of sustainability; we also know that, for how much funding we can give, if we do not draw up a real prevention plan from HCV, money will never be enough. It is clear, in fact, that an illness is not eradicated if we cure it only to a certain extent: there must be a context that allows the reduction of sick people. This can only be done with a national plan to combat infection, with measures for the prevention, diagnosis and treatment of hepatitis C, as well as defining ways and times for the eradication of the infection itself by the population. The second point concerns paragraph 570 of Article 1, presented by us in the Senate and voted in the law of stability 2016, which asked the State and the Regions to define - and we are still waiting for an explanation - in a transparent way the modalities of programming, monitoring and evaluation of the outcomes. It is clear that these are very recent medicines, of which the results must also be evaluated. This is not only about hepatitis C, but, in general, it is also valid for other innovative medicines. We know that the fund that we set up under the above-mentioned Stability Act does not only refer to hepatitis C drugs, but also to all innovative medicines; we therefore have the problem of establishing an objective criterion to have a feedback that is economic and, at the same time, qualitative. We do not have any news of this yet, so we ask that the Government take action to verify whether it has actually been given course to paragraph 570, giving notice to Parliament. Thirdly, we need to rapidly complete the reform of governance in the pharmaceutical sector, because innovative medicines do not stop only at hepatitis C: there are also innovative cancers. Although the Aifa has finally defined the difference between innovative and new - because they are obviously two different concepts - the governance of the drug however requires a job for the sustainability and universalism of the National Health Service, which concerns the health service, the citizens and - let me say - also the pharmaceutical companies. We cannot think, in fact, that hepatitis C is a case of school; if so, it should be studied in order not to make the same mistakes as in the past. Fourthly, the government is committed to defining the price of the drug in a European way. The real problem is that these drugs come from American giants, the negotiation is of a national type and it is not conceivable that each nation can deal with drugs that have very high costs. In addition to this, there are others, which have already arrived, which cost 100,000 euros. It is not conceivable that each State can treat it individually. I would like to speak briefly on three other issues. I am referring first of all to the assessment, as an alternative to the negotiation of Aifa, of the procurement of equivalent medicines in the regions and of the usefulness of the adoption of the compulsory licence. Finally, with regard to the circular mentioned earlier, which concerns the possibility of buying the medicine abroad, I would like to be very clear. The government must clarify the circular, because it refers to a ministerial decree of 1997, which is obviously dated because there were still no innovative medicines. It is unclear whether the individual patient pays or whether the National Health Service pays. You understand, Mr President, that there is also a certain difference in sustainability. We know that those drugs, which my colleagues referred to, have not been validated by the EMA. We therefore do not know the level of safety according to European criteria. There is therefore also a problem of responsibility, which may be assumed by the National Health Service. I think that accessibility should be given to everyone and that the audience should be expanded, but that care should be given very carefully, not only for the Health Service, but above all for citizens. [[Applause from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-04-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-805.ana.u44	The debate that has emerged and the open questions are absolutely shared on both sides of Parliament and I am very curious and interested in a truly substantial response from the Secretary or, if he so wishes, from the Minister to the issues raised today on the table.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-04-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-805.ana.u45	On behalf of the Assembly, I greet the teachers and students of the Istituto comprensivo Crevalcore in Crevalcore, in the province of Bologna, who are attending our work. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-04-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-805.ana.u46	I call Senator Liuzzi to explain motion No 605 (text 2).
ParlaMint-IT_2017-04-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-805.ana.u47	Mr President, I am always speaking on behalf of Senator D'Ambrosio Lettieri. Incontinence consists of involuntary loss of urine or faeces, the negative effects of which may extend to every aspect of the personality and behaviour of the individual affected by it, with the consequent development of a sense of inferiority, tendency to social isolation, risk of job loss, sexual problems. Incontinence is a very common disease, still little known, of which we are often ashamed, but which, if not adequately addressed, can have a major impact on the participation in social life and on the quality of life of those who are affected by it, causing anxiety and depression. Incontinence disorder involves more than five million people in our country, especially women (about 60 percent), even very young, and affects one seven-year-old out of ten who suffers from enuresis. Incontinence is also a social problem, with estimated health and social costs of between 2.5 and 3 billion euros, but, despite the spread of the problem, only a minority of people address the doctor. Regardless of gender, urinary incontinence affects people with other chronic conditions, such as diabetes, Parkinson's disease, dementia, Alzheimer's disease, and in any case occurs frequently in the elderly, due to physiological decay. The basic doctors, often, rather than providing guidance on clinical-therapeutic pathways, are limited to advising and prescribing the use of diapers, the massive use of which involves, among other things, in addition to very high costs, even high pollution rates. The network of pharmacies on the national territory, as a socio-sanitary garrison, could play a crucial role in training and informing patients with incontinence. Senators, on 28 June 2017 the National Day for the Prevention and Treatment of Incontinence, established in 2006, will be celebrated. As part of this day, public administrations and voluntary bodies are committed to promoting, through appropriate initiatives of awareness and solidarity, the attention and information on the problems of incontinent people and those involved, directly or indirectly, in their affairs, in order to develop public and private policies that broaden the possibilities of healing from the disease, or at least live with dignity. Moreover, considering that the stomized subjects are those to whom a new connection has been packaged, temporary or definitive, between the inside of their hollow organ (such as the larynx, the intestine) and the outside of their body, the stomized have specific hygienic needs and need materials, equipment, special tools and medications indispensable for the cure, as well as an adequate physical and psychic rehabilitation service. Gentlemen Senators, there are also many children among those who are stomized. In order to adequately address these diseases, a network of centres for the prevention, diagnosis and treatment of people suffering from incontinence and people who are stumised should be established throughout the country in relation to the degree of intensity and problematicity of the disease. The network would be able to provide incontinent and stomized patients, in a homogeneous way throughout the country, with adequate and appropriate care. Some regions would have already set up technical tables on incontinence. It is necessary to ensure the full protection of the right to health and the appropriateness of care for people with incontinence and those who are stomized. Therefore, our motion, Mr President, commits the Government to promoting appropriate policies, homogeneous throughout the national territory, capable, on the one hand, of preventing incontinence, and, on the other hand, of fully guaranteeing the quality of life of people suffering from these diseases, respecting human dignity and essential levels of assistance, and of regulating the types, criteria and methods of interventions that the State, in compliance with regional competences and with the involvement of patient associations...
ParlaMint-IT_2017-04-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-805.ana.u48	Thank you, Senator. The Presidency authorizes you to hand over the remainder of your speech so that it is annexed to the Minutes of the sitting.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-04-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-805.ana.u49	I call Senator Guerra to explain motion 614.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-04-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-805.ana.u50	Mr President, our motion deals with the problems of people suffering from fecal urinary incontinence (which, as has been said, are millions of people in Italy) and people who are stumbled, who are more than 70,000. These are not only health problems, but they involve affective and social relationships, working life: all fundamental aspects, in short, for the quality of one's life. The purpose of this motion is to commit the Government to a set of interventions aimed at guaranteeing, first of all, a system of integrated social and health services in favour of the incontinent and stomized subjects, that are homogeneous and freely accessible throughout the national territory, while respecting the general competences. This is a very serious problem, because the divergence of interventions and progress in this integration of services at regional levels creates A- and B-series citizens. Secondly, the motion commits itself to pursuing an integrated approach, which requires competent professional support, which considers the person in its entirety, as a whole; therefore, not only - although particularly important - a health approach, but also an approach that takes care of the possibility of people suffering from these difficulties to enjoy and access external spaces (work, school) with a view to continuously improving their physical and psychological living conditions. The crucial issue with regard to the health aspect, but not only, is the management and availability of prosthetic devices and aids, which pose technical, manual and psychological problems involving family members. In this field, I would like to stress strongly the crucial issue of the right to free choice of the necessary devices, including access to those of the latest generation; that is to say, we must be aware that on these devices there are no general auction mechanisms, but we must customize the device. Moreover, very often the same subject, in the course of his life, needs to change the device because they create reactions of the body that, if not adequately treated, can lead, as we unfortunately know, to the creation of sores and very serious problems, however expensive for the National Health System; even if the cost comes after the respect and the will that collectively we must have to guarantee a decent and decent life to all people and therefore also to those who suffer from these problems. This integrated attention to the person requires an intervention that concerns several places, therefore home care, in the workplace, in schools (let's think for example of children who require intermittent cateterism), but also professionalism and competence, therefore specialized medical nursing staff and who must have the ability to create therapeutic and welfare paths in the broad sense, both physical and psychological, that are personalized and efficient, as well as paths of support also to the environment that surrounds the person concerned. The motion recalls other aspects that I quickly recall for reasons of time. I am referring to the need to have more knowledge of this phenomenon and its diffusion through the creation of a register; to the idea of having a standardisation in certification, which is fundamental for access to the benefits already provided by the present legislation, but which in fact cannot always be used to the same extent precisely because in many places in Italy it is difficult to obtain the aforementioned certification or because it, being not standardised, does not bring the same benefits everywhere. Then there are two points that I quote very quickly: the need for an information campaign and awareness-raising towards the community and also towards people to know what their rights are and to have knowledge of medical devices and techniques of rehabilitation and rehabilitation. We are also wondering whether, since the subject has so far been very ignored, it is not appropriate to bind a share of the National Health Fund, at least for a period, in order to make possible this integrated approach which is so much needed. [[Applause from the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and ……]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-04-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-805.ana.u51	Appreciate the circumstances, postpone the continuation of the debate on motions for a further sitting.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-04-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-805.ana.u52	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-04-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-805.ana.u53	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-04-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-805.ana.u54	MORRA (M5S). Mr President, this morning in Calabria there was yet another operation carried out by the Public Prosecutor of the Republic of Lamezia, who has already indicated what this is about. The problem concerns the board of directors of the airport of Calabria (Sacal): there have been arrests, even domestic arrests, and there has been an interdictive request for all 12 members of the board of directors of Sacal, which is the management company of the airport of Lamezia, which last February had however acquired the responsibility to manage also the airports of Crotone and Reggio Calabria. For those who do not know, the system of the aerial transport in Calabria is in severe crisis, in fibrillation, so much so that, in fact, the airport of Crotone is almost closed and that of Reggio Calabria has for very little avoided that Alitalia also fled from its tracks, even with a return that has aroused many problems. What has emerged with regard to the management of the Youth Guarantee programme is a completely bleak picture, so I would like to inform all the Calabrians, especially those present in this House, that either they change or the Region dies, because we cannot create corruption, concussion, sin, misappropriation, everything and more, to give jobs "fake" on the basis of the logic of the soccer match. As has emerged from environmental interceptions, in fact, there have been undue and improper pressures on the part of many, especially members of the local political class. The material was all captured and preserved by the prosecutor of the Republic, but this gives the picture of a region absolutely crushed on commendation logic. If you of the Government still give confidence to these people, if you do not commissioner with serious people and of mirrored morality Calabria, you do it only because you want to exploit Calabria in a clientele-electoral key. I also read that the interdictative was requested for the head of Cabinet of the Calabria Region, Gaetano Pignanelli. If all of this does not scandalize you, I would like to know what will scandalize you. I therefore ask the Government to take seriously the southern issue, particularly the Calabrian issue, because we also manage a euro of government origin only in a partitioning logic for which you are also responsible. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-04-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-805.ana.u55	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-04-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-805.ana.u56	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-04-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-805.ana.u57	LO MORO (Art. 1-MDP). Mr President, I too can only take the floor on this subject, because it is an airport in Calabria, which is also located in my city. I am doing this to express concern about what has happened. The news is recent, the press conference has just ended, so we know little about this judicial affair that however involves the summit of the Sacal (airport management company), whose representatives were put under house arrest together with the members of the board of directors. I express a great deal of concern and at the same time full confidence in the judiciary and also the hope that this will be done quickly. In these cases there is always talk of confidence and a wish for speed, but there is a further problem, which is the management of the airport and airport services, the one that I am most concerned about at the moment, because it is clear that the people concerned will have a great deal to do with their destiny and will try to defend themselves, but as a Calabrian politician I am very interested in understanding how we will proceed in Calabria. The airport of Lamezia Terme is the most important in Calabria and is managed by a joint stock company, so immediately we and the national government have the problem of understanding what to do and how to intervene to prevent judicial events involving natural persons are reflected in the management of the airport and put an end, even before it starts, to the tourist season, which for Calabria is fundamental. Senator Morra says all public money ends up like this in Calabria. Actually, it's not just a Calabrian problem, and it's not even true that all public money ends up like this. The problem is that they must not end up like this and that we must try, from here too, to ensure that this going is interrupted in Calabria and elsewhere. From the start - I say this because the Government, and especially the Minister of Transport, are concerned about it - we must also ensure that airport management and airport services continue and do not have repercussions for events that we leave to the judiciary and that they will have their course.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-04-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-805.ana.u58	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-04-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-805.ana.u59	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-04-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-805.ana.u60	Mr Albano (PD). Mr President, with this speech at the end of the sitting, today, in the Senate, a relay with which, together with many senators and many senators, we remember every woman who is killed at the hands of a man to whom she is or has been linked by a loving relationship. We will do so as long as it is necessary to remind Parliament and our country of the urgency of combating violence against women. On April 7, in Pietra Ligure, in the Province of Savona, Janira, twenty-one years old, was brutally murdered by the former boyfriend Alessio with more than 15 stab wounds, mostly directed to the neck and face: a murder so violent and heinous that even the knife used by Alessio has detached itself from his handle. Janira had chosen to have a work experience that would take her away from Alessio and that would be used to build her own life. This brings up to 50 women we remember in this relay, which started only on June 30, 2016, that is not even ten months. It is a huge, significant and hateful number. More than one woman a week found her death, in Italy, in 2017, at the hands of a man, almost always her husband, companion, cohabitant. These are men who do not resign, men who are weak, vile, violent, who do not accept a no, a refusal, the idea of separation or that a love can end, men of all ages and of all social extractions, Italian and foreign, unfortunately united in this sad statistic, that we no longer want to have to update. To the 50 victims, moreover, we must add the attempted murders, the assaults, the rapes and the acts of violence, which fortunately do not end with death, but which still leave an indelible mark in the hearts and minds of the victims. From the data we know that in Italy there are more than 8 million women victims of psychological violence and more than 4 million victims of physical violence, 20.2 percent of the total. Even more damaging, however, is the rapture on the figure of the woman, who too often read in the news reports, with photos of apparently happy and normal couples, until something is taken that ruins everything, but offering attenuators for the male figure who performs violence, saying that he was unemployed, depressed, worried or in love. We want to make our own the appeal of the network of activists "Rebel network" sent to the National Council of the Order of Journalists, in order to eliminate from the language of chronicle concerning cases of feminicide misleading and defusing expressions the severity of the crime, such as crime passionate, raptus, sentimental track or jealousy, because it must be clear to all that you do not kill yourself by jealousy, you do not kill yourself by passion and, above all, you do not kill yourself for love. We propose with conviction our appeal, to the Government all and to the Undersecretary with delegation to equal opportunities: the directing booth monitors the application, the merits and the limits of law no. 119 of 2013 and, above all, give full and accurate implementation to the plan against violence. An appeal to the media: stop justifying, even in the wrong language, the murderers and to blame women. An appeal to the country, men and women: more than 120 women were killed in 2016, we can no longer accept this massacre. [[Applause from the PD Group and Senators Bencini and Bocchino.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-04-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-805.ana.u61	The motions, questions and questions received by the Presidency will be published in Annex B to today's report. I remember that the Senate will return to meet in public today, at 4.30 p.m., with the agenda already printed and distributed. The sitting was closed at 13 p.m.
