ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-892.ana.u1	The sitting was opened at 16 p.m. The Minutes shall be read. Mr Pegorer, Secretary, read the Minutes of the afternoon sitting of the previous day. PRESIDENT. - The debate is Since there are no comments, the Minutes are hereby approved.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-892.ana.u2	The list of senators on leave and absent on assignment received from the Senate, as well as further communications to the Assembly, will be published in Annex B to today's Minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-892.ana.u3	The next item is the question and questions. I am aware that Senator Giarrusso has informed the Presidency that he wants to turn the question 3-03743, concerning the teams riding the State Police of Palermo, into a written question, which will take the number 4-08181. Therefore the first question will be carried out 3-03870 on the apology of fascism in a seaside resort in Chioggia, in the province of Venice. The representative of the Government may answer this question.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-892.ana.u4	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, in relation to Senator Ricchiuti's question, I represent that the inspection carried out on 9 July by the DIGOS personnel at the Playa Punta Canna seaside beach has made it possible to ascertain the presence of several signs, including one with the reproduction of images by Benito Mussolini and others with sentences by Mr Gianni Scarpa, dependent on the aforementioned beach, who invited guests to order, cleanliness and discipline. Further tests carried out on the Internet have also made it possible to detect a video of the beach, which reproduced the voice of the same Scarpa while pronouncing phrases against democracy. In this regard, I would point out that the legal order provides - and I remind myself more of myself than of the Lords - for some fundamental principles of legality for the prevention and contrast of xenophobic and racist demonstrations or behaviours and, more generally, against the prohibition of reorganization, in any form whatsoever, of the dissolved fascist party. I refer first of all to Law No. 645 of 1952, so-called Scelba law, and to Decree-Law No. 122 of 1993, converted by Law No. 205 of 1993, so-called Mancino law. The institutions outlined in these regulations are the subject of rigorous and timely application by provincial public security authorities and police forces. This was also the case in the case which was the subject of the question; on 10 July, in fact, the day following the dispatch of the elements acquired by the police following the aforementioned inspection, the prefect of Venice adopted the order, pursuant to Article 2 of the single text of the laws of public security, with which Mr. Scarpa was intimated the immediate removal of any reference to the fascism contained in signs, posters and writings present within the establishment, with a contextual order to refrain from the further dissemination of messages against democracy. Also on the same day, Mr. Scarpa was heard as a person informed of the facts by DIGOS and subsequently referred to freedom for the crime of apology for fascism, referred to in Article 4 of the aforementioned Law No. 645 of 1952. The communication of news of crime has led to the establishment of a criminal procedure and the prosecutor responsible for the file has delegated the DIGOS itself to carry out further investigational investigations. The report of the police station and the order of the prefect of Venice have been transmitted to the mayor of Chioggia for the assessments of the competence of the aforementioned administrative body in order to the eventual revocation of the state property concession of the Lido Playa Punta Canna, issued to the company Summertime Srl. The local authority, in pointing out that, after the events of July, several inspections were carried out at the Lido in question by the local police and the staff of the administrative offices, in the course of which there was no evidence of any unlawful behaviour, or of anti-democratic propaganda forms or praises to the fascist regime, has reserved any further action for the outcome of the ongoing criminal proceedings. For the sake of complete information, I would like to add last but not least that it has been learned that the prosecutor of the Republic of Venice, yesterday, asked the judge for preliminary investigations at the court for the filing of the criminal proceedings.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-892.ana.u5	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-892.ana.u6	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-892.ana.u7	RICHIUTI (Art. 1-MDP). Madam President, Mr Undersecretary, it is news of these hours that the Public Prosecutor of the Republic of Venice has requested the filing for the manager of the Chioggia beach on the charge of apology of fascism. I think it's a serious mistake, a dramatic understatement. I turn to the Venetian judiciary and say: "Rethink it!" History teaches that dramatic underestimates of purulent and disgusting situations such as those of the Chioggia plant have led to tragedies. Underestimating the danger would not be the prerogative of Venetian magistrates alone. Even Alcide De Gasperi and Benedetto Croce in 1922 voted for the trust of the first Mussolini Government, thinking that its rustic ways were nothing but folklore, except regret for the abyss of abjection, death and destruction in which Fascism brought us. Even Pope Pius XI - the Pope of my city, Desio - had said that Mussolini was the man of Providence, except he too to rethink towards the end of his papacy, when it was too late. To the magistrates of Venice, who asked for the storage for the manager of the beach of Chioggia, I remind that Congressman Corsaro - a corsaro of name and fact, of course - has heavily insulted Congressman Fiano, who belongs to the Jewish community of Milan, saying that his eyebrows reminded him of an anatomical element. This happened this year, ladies and gentlemen, not fifty years ago. I must also point out that the judgment of the Constitutional Court No 65 of 1970 has found the crimes of apology and incitement to be legitimate and compatible with freedom of opinion, provided that the opinions expressed are not capable of causing a real danger to public order. Is there anyone who thinks that the regurgitation of fascism and neo-Naziness is not a real danger in Italy and Europe? Is there anyone who missed the election result in Germany? It is true that the left as a whole collected 38 percent of the votes, and that Angela Merkel's party is still a relative majority with 32 percent. But the intolerant and xenophobic extreme right entered Parliament with 13%. The journalist of the daily newspaper "La Repubblica", Paolo Berizzi, to whom all my solidarity goes, who investigates the phenomena of spreading violent and intolerant tendencies and dusting up the fascist jungle, is currently protected by the police service, because of the threats it has suffered. I take note of the Government's response, but I urge the judge for the preliminary investigation of Venice to reject the request for filing. I do not intend to interfere - obviously - with the jurisdiction, but to draw the attention of our fellow citizens (including the magistrates) to a very dangerous situation for our democratic institutions, which we are all called upon to defend. Sometimes questionable legal technicalities are not a good lens to judge the raw reality of the facts.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-892.ana.u8	Following is the question 3-03480 on fires in the ENI refinery of Sannazzaro de' Burgondi, in the province of Pavia. The representative of the Government may answer this question.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-892.ana.u9	Madam President, with reference to the consequences of the accident at the refinery in Sannazaro de' Burgondi on 1 December 2016, the ENI informed the Ministry of Economic Development that, following this event, the East Plant was immediately stopped and isolated from the rest of the refinery. Inside the plant no explosion occurred and the fire was significantly reduced and placed under control thanks to the prompt intervention of the firemen and emergency teams of the company. Thanks to the timely operation of all safety and prevention measures, all workers present in the plant have been removed. Finally, all air monitoring data were transmitted to the competent authorities. In relation to the consequences of the accident on 5 February 2017, the following day ENI informed the Ministry of Economic Development of the absence of harmful consequences for human health and the environment, as the fired fluid was gas oil already desulfurised and the smoke had remained contained within the perimeter of the plant. This was subsequently confirmed by the values recorded by the plants inside the plant, which did not show to be abnormal. Lombardy's ARPA, with a note dated 7 February 2017, also made it clear that, following the episode, no significant increases in pollutants have been recorded, with particular reference to sulphur dioxide and volatile organic compounds. However, even in the acute phase of the event, the concentrations of these pollutants showed significant increases. Finally, on 2 October 2017, the ENI provided an update on the recovery activity of the HDS2 unit involved in the incident, which was back in operation in the first days of July 2017. The company has reported that it has carried out operations to improve and adapt the structure, such as the installation of new field instrumentation and the implementation of specific control plans, defined downstream of a specific risk analysis conducted according to the RBI methodology (risk based inspection). The passive protection of the structures with the repositioning of some pipes on a new rack designed and built in a perimeter area of the plant has also been extended. During the cutting and restoration of the plant itself, no corrosive phenomena were found. With reference to the environmental controls carried out by external bodies, the activity carried out by the commission established by the Lombardy Region to carry out an extraordinary inspection in the refinery has not emerged new regarding what already communicated from the ARPA of Lombardy on 7 February 2017, as I have just recalled.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-892.ana.u10	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-892.ana.u11	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-892.ana.u12	Borioli (PD). Madam President, I would like to thank the Undersecretary, Mr Manzione, for his reply, which takes pictures of the findings obtained mainly by ENI and then confirmed by the ARPA of Lombardy. It has now been a long time since the two consecutive accidents, the one of December 2016, which caused a fire of considerable proportions, and the subsequent hint of an accident, which fortunately only raised alarm, because it was a night bout, which did not cause the consequences of the first one. In expressing therefore satisfaction for this part of the answer, I feel however to emphasize that, regarding the episodes happened in those two specific incidents, regarding that plant - which moreover, for its location, affects the Lombardy Region, but obviously has significant repercussions on the neighbouring Piedmont Region - one perceives from the local administrations and populations a feeling of vulnerability. This is combined - as I mentioned in the question - with the incidents we have been talking about today and with the occurrence of a series of thefts of petrol from the pipeline that departs from the refinery that caused very disturbing spills, because they have approached, through the underground slopes, some wells in an area very suited to agriculture and therefore strongly characterized by irrigation presences. In conclusion, I would like to make the recommendation that that system and that plant be the subject of constant monitoring by the ENI, even at the request of the Government, in order to avoid a phenomenology that, as the Undersecretary has punctually reported, also gives rise to findings that are less worrying than those perceived by the citizens, but that nevertheless constitute a certain problematicity for that plant, also considering the particular international situation. In fact, that is a very large refinery that can also be the subject of particular attention; of course we hope that they do not focus in that area and in no part of our country and in Europe, but unfortunately they are episodes that we frequently assist. Therefore, Mr Secretary, I would like to make this further recommendation by thanking you for your reply.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-892.ana.u13	The following are questions 2-00382, by abbreviated procedure, pursuant to Rule 156-a of the Rules of Procedure, and questions 3-02847, 3-02893, 3-03725 and 3-04031 on the methods of managing copyright by SIAE. I call Senator Fucksia to illustrate this interrogation.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-892.ana.u14	Mr Undersecretary, first of all I would like to thank you, on behalf of the sixty-two other co-signatory colleagues, for accepting the difficult task received by the Ministry of Cultural Heritage to respond to an interrogation - abbreviated procedure - which had been awaiting confirmation for five hundred and twenty-five days. Certainly better late than never, although in the course of these long days the situations reported in the act that I will expose have produced - evolving even worse - serious damages to the rightholders that SIAE would protect exclusively under Article 180 of the law on copyright. For this reason he will forgive me if in the exposition of the questioning I will add new reasons in support of the same demands at the time presented and subsequently repeated also with other acts of inspection union. First of all, I would like to clarify a concept that seems to constantly escape the Government in the drawing up of the relevant rules. The rules governing the persons managing the rights and the holders of the rights must necessarily be drawn up taking due account of the role of the users of the protected works. It is the users who transmit the works through the radio channels, which organize live performances and whatever else, who pay the remuneration to SIAE to obtain the license of use. Well, industry legislation has left users in uncertainty, with the result that on many occasions the sums are set aside and not paid out for fear of error. What do users have to do when they see a request for payment sent by entities other than SIAE and, at the same time, a letter from SIAE that is wary of paying? The SIAE monopoly regime, which, in fact, has lasted for more than one hundred and thirty years in our country, could be interrupted, opening the door to the liberalisation of the management of copyright and related licences, correctly transposing Directive 2014/26/EU, ensuring the full implementation of Article 5 (2) of that Directive. A letter last year, signed by over three hundred signatories among companies, entrepreneurs, startups and Italian investors in the digital field, urged the Government to liberalise the music rights sector. And this Parliament, on several occasions and with more means available (from the amending proposals to the agenda, from the acts of inspection union to the speeches in the Chamber), has urged the Government to direct its action towards progressive liberalisation. In this regard, I would remind you that on 30 March 2016, at a hearing in the Chamber's 7th and 14th Commissions, Minister Franceschini stated that there was no indication in the directive of how individual States should organise themselves, but that certain principles should simply be brought forward that must be respected. A certainly authoritative interpretation that of the Minister, if only on September 5, 2017, following a meeting with the Commissioner for Digital Gabriel, the Minister himself went back, committing himself (even through a letter sent to the Commission, which we do not have in vision) to insert in the next budget law a corrective to the decree transposing the Barnier Directive (decree arrived, moreover, with more than a year of delay, ensuring Italy an infringement procedure) that will allow the collective management bodies to operate directly. The choice that has been made, that is to ensure the free choice of the subject to whom to entrust the management of the rights, without prejudice to the monopoly granted to SIAE, has inevitably produced legal uncertainties (it is a bit like saying that you can eat any kind of fruit, but then buy only apples). The Ministry is therefore asked to clarify, once and for all, the regime applicable to all users who are in a position to transmit or represent works not protected by SIAE. Will they have to pay compensation to a different body, in violation of Article 180 of the Copyright Act? Or will they not have to pay compensation, in violation of Articles 12 et seq. of the same law? On the management of SIAE, President Sugar, in a hearing at the Chamber of Deputies on 19 September 2017, reported data that should describe an exciting resumption of SIAE, while the complaints of the associates remain unheard. In view of an improvement in the budget and of the average lower management costs of the European sisters (they are the words of President Sugar), and of the rules that would ensure the transparency of the administrative bodies of the institution, the methods of managing copyright and its distribution present obvious imbalances to the detriment of the minor artists, with the effect that 65% of the artists registered at SIAE, at the end of the year, claim to receive in distribution of the rights less than it pays to the institution for the registration fee, for the benefit of the artists and authors related to majors. Another situation remains unchanged, namely that of the well 527 of the 1,257 engaged indefinitely who have family ties or knowledge. Added to this are the unclear investments that SIAE would undertake, we do not know with which sums, like the one quoted by ADUCC in the titles of the Lehman Brothers: over 40 million euros gone up in smoke. All these requests have been unheard of. In the more part of the Government's response, however, there are many other alarming signs of the management of the Italian Society of authors and publishers. The Antitrust Authority, in fact, launched on April 5, 2017 an investigation against SIAE to ascertain the possible abuse of dominant position towards the new players entering the market and the different subjects involved in the management of copyright. The Antitrust measure describes certain conducts held by SIAE and in particular the exercise of pressure of various kinds to deter authors from giving mandate, even for certain rights or services, to other collecting. It would also appear that SIAE would be threatening and wary of users from paying to different collecting the share of royalty due to them, so as to also collect the fees payable to authors or publishers who are not members of the company, and would apply to them economic and non-economic conditions, different and more convenient, thus creating unjustified advantages in favour of certain categories of undertakings, in order to maintain their respective compensation exclusively. The documentation produced shows that SIAE would perform of practices requests of fees of registration also to authors not enrolled in any collecting or not enrolled in SIAE but to other collecting, as well as to create enormous obstacles to the resolution of the author's mandate, even for some works or certain rights or categories of rights, in order to discourage the passage to other collecting. I would therefore ask you to provide me and my co-signatory colleagues with a response to the requests described above and to the other requests contained in the various acts of inspection union. PRESIDENT. - The debate is The representative of the Government may reply in conjunction with the question and the question.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-892.ana.u15	Madam President, I respond to Senator Puppato's question about the transposition of Directive 2014/26/EU on copyright, which has been combined - as you pointed out - with questions and similar questions submitted by Senator Fucksia and Senator Crimi. Of course, the issues are many and need to be both brief - but it will not be very short - reconstruction of the iter of inquiry itinerary, which led to the enactment of the legislative decree 15 March 2017, n. 35, with which the directive n. 26 of 2014, first recalled, so-called Barnier directive has been transposed into our law. It should be recalled that this Directive - transposed in Italy on the basis of the specific delegation criteria laid down by Law No 170 of 2016, Article 20 - introduced principles useful to achieve the most complete harmonisation of governance of copyright collecting societies in Europe and to promote the dissemination of online music through the granting of multi-territorial licences. It has laid down, inter alia, the right of the rightholder to authorise a collective management organisation of his choice to manage rights or categories of rights for the territories of his choice, irrespective of the Member State of nationality, residence or establishment of the collective management organisation or of the right holder; provision transposed in Article 4 of Legislative Decree No 35, in which the Italian legislature has also included the independent management entities. It should still be borne in mind that the particular conformation of copyright and related rights, the particular characteristics of the services provided by intermediaries, characterised by high fixed costs and low variable costs, in addition to the variety of expressive forms of creativity, have encouraged the creation of situations of legal, natural or de facto monopoly throughout Europe. That these economic models are all equally legitimate and potentially efficient is a fact found in European jurisprudence and confirmed by Directive 2014/26/EU itself, which has not limited Member States with regard to the implementation of economic rights management models. In addition, while the Court of Justice of the European Union has clarified that Article 16 of Directive 2006/123/EU on the freedom to provide services is not applicable to copyright and related matters, by express exclusion from Article 17 of that Directive; it follows that the Directive in question, since it is not applicable to such services, does not prevent internal legislation from conferring the legal monopoly of service on an institution. In the light of the jurisprudence of the Court of Justice, the Italian legislator initially considered it prudent to maintain a legal reserve in favour of SIAE as regards the activity of intermediary of copyright rights, moreover expressly provided by the legislator when issuing the principles of delegation, and the total liberalization of the market of collective management of rights related to copyright, in accordance with Article 39 of Decree-Law No 1 of 2012, converted, with amendments, by Law No 27 of 24 March 2012, which put an end to the monopoly of the New IMAIE. In this last area - as is well known - to demonstrate the difficulties encountered, it has been possible to record that the pulverization of the repertoires and collectings, despite the administrative regulation of detail aimed at regulating and reordering the matter, has determined the emergence of persistent critical issues, among other things now recalled by the questioner, who - it is hoped - will find a resolution by virtue of the entry into force of Legislative Decree No. 35 of 2017 and the adaptation of the collecting rights related to the principles of transparency and governance required by the current legislation. In this strategic sense, the supervisory role assigned by Article 40 of Decree No 35 to the Guarantee Authority in communications appears. With reference to the alleged profiles of possible incompatibility of some provisions contained in Legislative Decree No. 35 with Directive 26 - as already expressed in other recent fora and, in particular, in the communication made on 12 September last by Minister Franceschini and the Undersecretary for European policies Gozi to the European Commission - following the meeting held in Venice on 4 September, in the usual perspective of collaboration with the European Commission that has always distinguished the Italian Government, it has been expressed - I think this is important - the desire to present in Parliament an imminent legislative intervention on time, that can further improve the efficiency of the system of management of copyright, at the same time certainly gathering the instances manifested also in the questions found here - are important as a stimulus to the Government, which has the confidence of the problem and wants to find a shared solution - and aimed at a liberalisation of the field of collective management of copyright. With this in mind, in line with the general framework and Article 5 of the directive in question, the Government intends to propose to Parliament a provision allowing in Italy, to all collective management organisations operating in the territory of the European Union, non-profit-making and constituted on an associative basis, to proceed directly to the collection of rights, as well as to the representation of its members, eliminating the reserve of law in favour of the SIAE and carrying out the appropriate corrective measures to the current legislation that ensure effective competition. With regard to the denounced inefficiencies of the agency, it is necessary first of all to highlight the new measures provided for also in the legislative decree n. 35, which define a series of strict criteria, a tighter timing and more penetrating forms of control on the activities of distribution, collection, the use of the proceeds and the services offered by the agencies, as well as on the modalities of distribution of the amounts due, in order first to guarantee the full transparency. It should also be noted that from the 2011 management report, all SIAE financial years closed positively and the last management report approved by the supervisory authorities also recorded a surplus of €984,913 compared to the previous year. Certainly - as you, Senator Fucksia, pointed out - it is not enough, but it is a fact to be taken into account together with others. However, the institution has already been called upon to comply with the standards of governance, efficiency and transparency laid down in the Directive and to ensure the best protection of rightholders, but also, and even more so, in the light of the regulatory and competitive developments announced. With reference to the requests for the establishment of a Ministerial Commission or a technical table, in order to monitor the state of SIAE, in view of the above considerations on developments, in particular in the field of transparency and controls, given that the institution is subject, pursuant to Law No 2 of 2008, to the permanent and joint supervision of the Minister for Cultural Heritage and Activities and Tourism and of the President of the Council of Ministers, after consulting the Minister for Economic Affairs and Finance for matters of specific competence, to which the supervisory and inspection functions entrusted to the AGCOM on compliance with the regulatory provisions (Article 40 of Legislative Decree No 35 of 2017), it seems appropriate to carry out a preliminary verification of further control activities already in the course of implementation. In conclusion, in response to interrogating and interrogating senators, it is believed that the Government has in recent years undertaken important initiatives for efficient and transparent management of copyright and related rights. It is intended to continue in this direction, also with the intervention of further liberalisation announced, continuing in the confrontation with the European institutions and with the national Parliament - in this perspective well be urged as this afternoon - to regulate at best an area so important for the economic and cultural growth of the country, in consideration of the primary need to fully guarantee the protection of intellectual property and copyright.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-892.ana.u16	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-892.ana.u17	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-892.ana.u18	PUPPATE (PD). Madam President, I would like to thank the Undersecretary, Mr Cesaro, for giving us many references to the action that the Government is putting on the ground, especially during the last year, in order to be able to apply in our country the European directive that wants to remove that monopolistic constraint which still exists, which was right to be when it was set up in 1880 - as Mr Fucksia said - when De Amicis or Giuseppe Verdi spoke for us. Of course, the world has changed a lot since that time, and of course, Mr Undersecretary, you are not facing a person who sees liberalisation in itself as a miraclemaker for all evils. In fact, I would like to say that when we talk about pensions and rights, we must pay the utmost attention. But the intercourse that has been with the Government over the last few months has brought to the fore the fact that we must know how to combine the need to ensure - as the European provision provides - that copyright can also be allocated in areas outside Italy, and therefore different from those mandatory and binding to date provided for within the SIAE, with the choice rightly made by the Government - and then by Parliament through an amendment to my first signature, presented together with Senator Ichino, approved in September - which has brought to the evidence a first, important and progressive modification of the Italian system, so old and old for the relative aspect of the constraint, going to progressively exempt from the obligation of the SIAE stamp, a legacy in some anachronistic way, also for the way with which it is still applied. Now it is a question - on the one hand - of harmonising our discipline to the rights ordered by the European Union, to which our country belongs in full title, and - on the other hand - of being able to put in place an attention in terms of openness to other realities that push and objectively have their reason to do so, so that actually the authors, writers, singers and Italian musicians can choose the best possible management in relation also to their future needs. In conclusion, I would like to make a positive note: not only because of the economic factor that you have recorded in relation to the SIAE's balance sheet, we have noticed - and we could not fail to do so - that over the last three years in particular there has been a positive development in terms of efficiency and greater transparency within SIAE, which is not sufficient on its own to justify the maintenance of a single company for the management of rights. However, it should be noted that the government's guidelines and the attention it has given to the management of SIAE are producing this type of positive choices. I would therefore like to thank the Government for the attention it is showing and ask that we speed up as far as possible the full harmonisation of our right with regard to the rights of authors in relation to European legislation. On this front, the government will always have strong cooperation from the Senate, which has not by chance represented with the three questions today, which are signed by many colleagues, almost half of the parliamentary arc. This means that the story is for the attention of all of us and I believe that this can be a good omen for the future.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-892.ana.u19	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-892.ana.u20	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-892.ana.u21	CRIMI (M5S). Mr. Undersecretary, pass me the line: listening to your answer you can say that music remains the same for SIAE. It would be appropriate for this Government and the Ministry to state clearly what are the intentions regarding the cessation of the monopoly of SIAE, and not to postpone the matter once again with promises and words, with the "do"s, we will say "do" and "propose," as in fact happened with the communication made by Minister Franceschini in Brussels. It seems that everything is going well now, but in fact it is only the promise of something which, by the way, is subject to the vote on the budget law and, therefore, it is not necessarily going to happen. It was enough, however, to temporarily reassure the European Union. It is important to note that there is a clear distinction between collective management organisations and independent management bodies. That's where it all comes from. By legislative decree No 35 of 2017, which you cited in transposing the European directive, you introduced the following clarification: while the European directive simply says that any rightholder can apply to any collective management organisation, you have had to specify... or to an independent management entity, distinguishing the two cases and doing in the end, except as already provided by the previous laws on the SIAE monopoly. What is likely to emerge from the words I have heard today and which will certainly be put on the ground is a falsely liberalised market, because it will not be open to all companies operating in the field, such as those we know (Soundreef, Patamu and others). The market will be open to the other European collective management bodies, and in fact will not be liberalised, in which the bodies that today live under a substantial monopoly - as the Undersecretary himself said - in Germany and in other countries will be able to come to collect in Italy. Obviously this will not happen, because sister agencies do not compete with each other, having systems of collaboration already consolidated over time. This is, therefore, a false liberalisation. The opportunity will instead be denied to operators organized differently from SIAE, those representing artists on the basis of commercial mandates and, therefore, in non-collective form, who have carried out transparency and efficiency and, in many cases, have brought a benefit more to artists than to others. What we see emerging, therefore, is the desire to make it seem that there will be a step forward, giving a little illusion, without affecting the monopoly of SIAE. The artists and users who in recent months have left SIAE - we are about 8,000 - for the alternatives they consider most suitable, will thus continue to operate in a situation of almost total legal uncertainty. So, we'll have, on the one hand, the SIAE that intimates not to pay to other subjects and, on the other hand, the other subjects who ask for the money for the collection. These facts are now chronicled. Anyway, I want to reassure you on a fact. All efforts to maintain the SIAE monopoly are useless: by now the stables have been opened and the oxen have escaped. The authors have abandoned SIAE and there are already 8,000 people who have enrolled with other subjects, including characters of some importance. In addition, antitrust proceedings are under way against SIAE and new judicial proceedings can be decided again by the Court of Justice of the European Union. I will conclude, Mr. Undersecretary. Until April 2016, Minister Franceschini was always in favour of market liberalisation. Then, during a hearing at the Commission on Public Education, Cultural Heritage, he stated that he had changed his mind. This is one of the many questions that we ask ourselves. The Minister says that society is among the best in Europe. The jewel we are talking about is a company that is often a commissioner, which distributes compensation to authors and publishers with a delay of up to eighteen to twenty-four months; a company that has several times had a budget in red and that has 280 million euros of real estate, of which it is not well understood what the purpose and the reason is. The company has invested hundreds of millions of euros of investment funds abroad as well, and it is not clear how the proceeds of real estate and investments are distributed. If we read the orders for the distribution of remuneration for authors and publishers, we do not find clear evidence of the mechanisms for the distribution of those proceeds. We wonder if those profits and that value are redistributed with authors and publishers, and we are talking about a very important flow of money (perhaps what generates SIAE profits today). When we discuss the law of stability, the 5 Star Movement will be there to place the magnifying glass on this issue together with the wide parliamentary arc represented here. Artists know that there are alternatives and they must have the right to choose.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-892.ana.u22	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-892.ana.u23	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-892.ana.u24	FUCKSIA (FL (Id-PL, PLI)). Mr. Undersecretary, thank you for your reply, but I am not satisfied. To date, the collective management organisations have already signed representation agreements under which SIAE collects in Italy the remuneration of foreign artists, while abroad collects like SIAE collect for Italians. Therefore, the forecasts envisaged are in fact already in place. Foreign collecting (such as French SACEM, German GEMA, Spanish SGAE and English PRS) already have agreements between them whereby the one-to-one relationship with SIAE allows an efficient collection of artists' income. The legislative change, also envisaged in view of the budget law, appears to be a mockery, which follows the serious damage done to both rightholders and users. The real issue is to draw up objective criteria for establishing fair and non-discriminatory representation agreements, including for independent management entities and, in any case, in the more, to allow the collection of compensation to be carried out not only by individual authors, but also by those responsible for them, excluding independent management bodies. Therefore, the solution appears to be all in the future and it is hoped that, with precise legal provisions, the situation will be remedied in the future by means of a specific measure, also with regard to users. Then I will thank you, Mr. Representative of the Government, and I will be able to declare myself satisfied, with concreteness achieved.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-892.ana.u25	The questioning and questions on the agenda are thus exhausted.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-892.ana.u26	The motions, questions and questions received by the Presidency will be published in Annex B to today's report.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-892.ana.u27	The Senate will meet again in two public sessions on Tuesday 10 October, the first at 11 a.m. and the second at 4.30 p.m., with the following agenda: (See agenda) The sitting was closed at 16.46 p.m.
