ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-737.ana.u1	The sitting was opened at 16.33 p.m. The Minutes shall be read. Mr Petraglia, Secretary, gave a reading of the Minutes of the sitting of 20 December 2016. PRESIDENT. - The debate is Since there were no comments, the Minutes were approved.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-737.ana.u2	The list of senators on leave and absent on assignment received from the Senate, as well as further communications to the Assembly, will be published in Annex B to today's Minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-737.ana.u3	I would warn you that qualified votes can be taken in the course of today's sitting by electronic means. Therefore, from this moment the period of 20 minutes from the notice provided for in Article 119, paragraph 1, of the Regulation (at 16,34 hours) begins.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-737.ana.u4	Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to say that the President of the Council of Ministers sent the following letter: "Rome, 29 December 2016 Mr. President, I inform S.V. that the President of the Republic, by his own decree today, adopted on my proposal, after hearing the Council of Ministers, appointed the following Subsecretaries of State: to the Presidency of the Council of Ministers: Ms Maria Teresa Amici; - on. Mr Gianclaudio BRESSA; - on. Dr. Mr Sandro Gozi; - sen. Luciano Pizzetti; - on. Dr. Mr Angelo RUGHETTI; for Foreign Affairs and International Cooperation: - on Vincenzo AMENDOLA; - sen. Dr. Blessed is the See; - Dr. Mario GIRO; for the Interior: - on. Dr. Giampiero BOCCI; - sen. Dr. Philip BUBBIC; - Dr. Domenico MANZIONE; for Justice: - sen. Federica CHIAVAROLI; - Dr. Mr Cosimo Maria Ferri; - on. Dr. Gennaro BIGLIORE; for the Defense: - on. Dr. Gioacchino ALFANO; - on. Dr. Mr Domenico Rossi; for the Economy and Finance: - on. Mr Pier Paolo BARETTA; - on. Dr. Mr Luigi CASERO; - on. Dr. Paola DE MICHELI; - Dr. Mr Enrico Morando; for Economic Development: - on. Teresa BELLANOVA; - sen. Dr. Mr Antonio Gentile; - on. Mr Antonello GIACOMELLI; - on. Dr. Ivan SCALFAROTTO; for food and forestry agricultural policies: - on. Giuseppe Castiglione; - sen. prof. Mr Andrea Olivero; for the environment and protection of the territory and the sea: - Ms Barbara DEGANI; - on Ms Silvia VELO; for Infrastructure and Transport: - on. av. Umberto DEL BASSO DE CARO; - sen. Riccardo NENCINI; - sen. Dr Simona VICARI; for Labour and Social Policy: - on. Mr Franca BONDELLI; - on Dr. Luigi BOBBA; - sen. Dr. Massimo CASSANO; for Education, University and Research: - Dr. Vito DE FILIPPO; - sen. Angela D'ONGHIA; - Dr. Gabriele TOCCAFONDI; for cultural heritage and activities and tourism: - on. Ms Dorina BIANCHI; - on Dr Ilaria Carla Anna BORLETTI DELL'AQUA BUITONI; - on. Dr. Antimo CESARO; for Health: - on. Davide FARAONE. F. to Paolo Gentiloni Silveri.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-737.ana.u5	The next item is the report by the Minister for Labour and Social Policy. I call the Minister for Labour and Social Policy, Giuliano Poletti. [[Brusio.]] I beg colleagues to take their seats and make some silence.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-737.ana.u6	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I am asked to inform the Senate of the statements I made on 19 December 2016 and reported by the media on the subject of young people leaving Italy to look for opportunities for their future abroad. On that day I participated in a series of events in the Marches. I spoke at the job day in Pesaro, an initiative promoted by the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy in the context of the new active policy design and specifically dedicated to promoting opportunities for direct meeting between businesses, services, employment agencies and young people seeking employment. I then met students, teachers and representatives of employment centres and services to verify and deepen the school-work alternation experiences achieved. There was also an opportunity to meet the workers of the public employment centres to reiterate to them, as was confirmed by the renewal of the relevant agreement in the State-Regions Conference of 22 December last, the desire to ensure the continuity and strengthening of the activities of these bodies. Also, I visited some companies in the area. During the day I had the opportunity to meet repeatedly the representatives of the press and other media who, in addition to a judgment on these events, have also asked me for an evaluation of the phenomenon of the brain drain, that is of the young people who leave Italy to try to achieve their goals in other countries. Also because of the meetings held in those hours, during which I have dialogue with so many young people who are working to realize their expectations in our country, bringing back very positive impressions, I answered this question in a wrong way, contrasting the effort and commitment of these young people who remain in Italy with those of their peers who choose another country to build their future. I have argued that it is not fair to say that those who leave our country are the best and that, as a result, those who remain have less skills and quality than others. I added to this opinion, which I consider to be legitimate and not offensive, a wrong inscription and such as to generate the conviction of my insensitivity towards those young people who seek a perspective far from Italy. Having noted my mistake, I considered it my duty to apologise immediately for that expression, also because it is very far from my thinking, my personal history and my way of acting. Apologies that I confirm in this Parliamentary Chamber. However, even at the end of the indicted sentence I had already expressed more clearly my real thought, as also reported in the second of the two ANSA launches which reported, that day, my statements. In fact, we read in it: 'Said this, it is good that our young people have the opportunity to go around Europe and the world. It is an opportunity to experience them, but they must also have the opportunity to return to our country. We must offer them the opportunity to express skills, skills and know-how here. Also because we know that the decisions of these kids are not always an obligatory choice, but they also respond to the desire to make new experiences and test themselves in different contexts. Young people who go abroad are an important resource. We must give everyone the opportunity to realize their future in our country or where their professional and personal paths take them. We all know that the job prospects of young people in our country have been severely compromised by the great crisis that began in 2008. In fact, at the beginning of that year there were 400,000 unemployed young people and in March 2014 there was a peak of 707,000. In November 2016, there were 627,000 unemployed young people. Another major negative effect was the pension reform approved at the end of 2011 which significantly increased the retirement age. Just as it did not help the remoteness of our education system from the world of work and enterprise. On this issue, the Government has intervened with the implementation, together with the Regions, of the European Youth Guarantee programme which has helped to reduce by more than 250,000 the number of young people who do not study and do not work, with the general introduction of the school-work alternation with the strengthening and simplification of apprenticeship and, last, with the interventions on pensions that widen the outgoing flexibility and, consequently, increase the opportunities for young people to enter the labour market. In particular, as regards the labour market, youth unemployment remains at worrying levels, although from March 2014 to November 2016 it decreased by 3.5 points. Then there is, of course, also a topic of quality of work. Our commitment has been and is to increase its stability and reduce its precariousness. With the reform of the labour market we have abolished a number of contracts with strong features of precariousness, such as project collaboration contracts and participating associations. We have more strictly defined the boundary between employment and self-employment in order to combat the phenomenon of fake VAT matches. ISTAT data confirm that the increase in employment is largely attributable to stable employees. In fact, of the 593,000 more employed than in March 2014, 442,000 are permanent workers. A reflection on the use of vouchers is now open on this issue. I take the opportunity of this communication to reiterate, as already stated by the President of the Council Gentiloni and in relation to the first evidence taken from the analysis of the monitoring data on the use of vouchers, that the Government considers necessary a revision of this instrument, in order to bring it back to the function for which it had been designed, that is to give social security and insurance coverage to occasional activities, taking them out of undeclared work. Allow me, once again, to make a final remark. Around the statements I made on December 19, along with the understandable and justified political controversy, a campaign of insults and threats developed, particularly on social media, that not only affected me, but involved my family: my wife and my son. I thank all those who have been close to me and have expressed to me and to my family their solidarity for these episodes that, apart from the worry and discomfort that they cause to the people directly involved, cannot find any justification and alarm because they bear witness to a climate of tension. These are episodes that have nothing to do with criticism and disputes, even harsh ones, that remain in the context of a civil and respectful confrontation. In conclusion, I hope that I have responded on time to the request for information that was proposed to me and that I have clarified my thoughts on this subject. [[Applause from the PD and AP groups (Ncd-CpI).]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-737.ana.u7	I declare open the discussion on the information of the Minister of Labour and social policies. Senator Bencini is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-737.ana.u8	Mr President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, I believe that since we are called upon to discuss an extremely serious problem, that of employment in Italy and, in particular, youth unemployment, we should all be more aware that these issues deserve the utmost seriousness and reject the temptation to face the debate on the wave of political exploitation, perhaps of previous referendum votes or statements made by the Minister. On the other hand, I find it useful and necessary that we analyse the work carried out so far by the Minister and consider whether he is the right person to deal with such large and urgent problems, starting from a fundamental question: what model of the labour market do we want to have in Italy? Or, better yet, what model is more attractive for young people? Young people who make so much news, those who go abroad to work, to which countries - we wonder - turn their attention? To countries where the workplace is more protected than in Italy? Towards stagnant, unproductive, closed economies, in which merit and competition are considered as enemy principles of workers' rights? We declare ourselves outraged by the many young people who leave Italy, but we do not even bother then to look at what they are looking for. The United States, England, Germany itself and all the new destinations available to those who cross national borders certainly do not attract our young people through greater rigidity in the labour market. Does this mean that greater flexibility in the market is the panacea of all our evils? No, I am not of this opinion: I do not think that greater flexibility is a panacea, nor is the absence of an unregulated market. As data and research testify, the correlation between flexibility and increased employment is almost nothing. However, I say that our young people choose to work in countries where the flexibility of the labour market is not disputed because it is the result of a dynamic working culture and not the seed. What can make the difference in Italy are not better rules that regulate the labour market, but a pragmatic and post-ideological approach that leads to a convincing and coherent choice of the model that combines flexibility and security for the worker (because of flexibility I think there is too much of it, in addition to the lack of employment) with the security of finding a job that really interests the person. We need to create a more secure and secure regulation that attracts investment in our country, because this continuous change of rules certainly does not make us credible. It is yesterday, again, the figure that youth unemployment has returned to 40%. As they say several times, going abroad must be a choice, an opportunity, dictated by the desire to go to make new discoveries, it must not be a necessity because here you cannot assert your own merit and your own knowledge. The invitation which we, as the Group of Italy of Values, address to you, Minister, is to try to give more pragmatic and concrete answers to a situation which shows that it is becoming increasingly serious. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. He's enlisted to speak Senator Zizza. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-737.ana.u9	Minister, for Minister Padoa Schioppa, the young people were children, for Minister Fornero were too demanding and pretentious, while you, Minister, talking about the young people who leave Italy to find work abroad, come to declare that you know people who have gone and that it is good that you are where you have gone, because surely this country will not suffer not to have them anymore. In any other country, after such statements anyone would be obliged to resign. But to reject your policies and those of your government, Minister, the voters think about it, who, on every occasion when they are called to the polls, demonstrate that this majority does not reflect society at all and is detached from the real problems. Just yesterday, for example, ISTAT certified the failure of the jobs act: the unemployment rate is 11.9%, with an increase of 0.2 percentage points on a monthly basis. The situation is particularly sad on the youth front, with an unemployment rate of up to 39.4%, an increase of 1.8 percentage points over the previous period. Putting aside his unhappy statements, we should focus on why there is this data, why your employment and employment policies did not work and why our children should hope for a better future only by leaving our land. I would like to tell you, Minister, that deciding for our young people to leave their families and affections is not always a free and carefree choice. No, too often it turns out to be a forced escape, one last chance. The desperation of this choice is not only that of the children who go on the first direct flight perhaps to any European country, but it is the despair and concern of thousands of parents who reach the point of feeling guilty for not having been able to give their son or daughter a perspective of life in their homeland. The government's task, what you represent, should be to find adequate solutions to give and restore hope to the new generations, instead of making statements that a minister, in my opinion, cannot afford to make. If you, Minister, really want your apology to be accepted, put in place suitable social policies. You begin to recognize the failures caused by the infamous jobs act, which did not produce the results announced despite the huge resources made available and which did not know how to affect the labour market effectively, increasing the precariousness for workers and not offering companies adequate tools to invest and hire. Compare yourself, Minister, even with the oppositions. We start to change it, this future, we owe it to our young people. Let us work, Minister, so that the brains, instead of fleeing, remain in our country, where they studied, have formed and where - we are sure of that - they would definitely want to stay. Dear Minister, you must not resign, not least because neither Padoa Schioppa nor Fornero did, after having made inappropriate statements about our children. But give answers to our kids, to the many who don't even look for jobs anymore, because they are tired, demotivated and resigned. I assure you, Minister, that looking into the eyes of a boy who no longer dreams, to whom we have cut all expectations, is like seeing him die slowly. And that is unacceptable. The right to work is a principle enshrined in our Constitution, which the citizens, in the last referendum vote, defended and protected and we must start from that right, Articles 1 and 4 of our Constitutional Charter, which perhaps few have read properly. Minister, let us give hope and future to this country and to our young people. [[Applause from the CoR Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-737.ana.u10	He is enlisted to speak Senator Divine. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-737.ana.u11	Mr Minister, we must tell you that a report such as your information today leaves us unarmed, in the sense that, if you had something to say, touched in your sensitivity, we would have expected a statement coram populo, not by arm, but at least with a little feeling. It comes, instead, with a note prepared of which to read, where one tries to tangle and to make passage of the actions of which the government really should be ashamed. Mr Minister, let us just talk about what you and your responsibilities are all about: today's figures, which do not go back a year but which we read this morning, say exactly the opposite, namely that there is unemployment at 12% and cannot be read by the fact that you gave us, a few months ago, which seemed to be tending to be the opposite. It is today's report from the Chamber of Commerce of Bolzano, according to which, all in all, labour policies have been well managed, with current unemployment of 3.2 percent. We do not say that everyone can be in the situation of the Province of Bolzano, but perhaps we should think that if we decentralise labour policies, where perhaps we know the issues better, where we have the tools and there is no waste present in other areas, things would probably be better. The level of youth unemployment, which reaches around 40%, is a bomb triggered and we cannot continue to say that with jobs act we have tried to solve the problem. We didn't try to solve anything and we told you at all latitudes (except that its majority, who had to vote for the jobs act point by modesty): on the jobs act had to be done the point, the verification, after three years. It was useless to say that there have been recruitments, because now the whole negative aspect is manifested: the incentives are finished, the enterprises no longer have interest and no longer hires anyone and the data unfortunately, we are not happy, but we have to read them for those who are. Minister, we know things and we ask ourselves: does the government know? Let's take those silly policies, made for young people, like the 500 euros given to adults: do you know what happened to them? We know it: there's the used market, they sell the bonuses at 50 percent! [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group and Senators Gambaro and Rizzotti.]] The kids sell the bonus book and the bonus movie theater. Where did all those money and resources go? One could even imagine that they would end up like this. I think you've read the Swiss patronage figure too: your ministry provides between 35 and 40 million a year. We are surprised that a director of the patronage CGIL-INCA in Zurich was able to obtain figures that surpass the ten million and in fact the court in Zurich, in 2015, sentenced him to nine years in prison. Well, it seems to me that this House has received a very heavy report from the Committee on Italian Affairs abroad, chaired by Claudio Micheloni, voted unanimously in 2016, which highlighted these distortions: nothing has been done at all. Mr Minister, you have announced that there will be inspections, but the inspections are not needed now, they were needed before: the inspection is not announced, it is carried out, and that is all, the controls are done without warning. The findings are now made: to the detriment of the situation, the observation is made, also in terms of RCA. If one wonders how this government is going, just take two commercials. The school: the kids are invited to go to school with caps, scarves and gloves, because someone forgot that in January it could also get cold and maybe the heating should be turned on a few days in advance, compared to the opening day. Health: I don't know if it's normal to read that in Campania hospitalizations are even done on the ground, because you don't know where to put hospitalizations But health care is not managed in an accountant way, health care must be managed on the basis of different questions, requests and statistics and not by cutting, cutting and recovering so that money can be given to young people to go to the cinema. I don't know if you've ever slept in a trailer when it's ten degrees below zero outside. I can say that, because during the earthquake in Irpinia we intervened as volunteers and I assure you that sleeping with the popsicles outside, even with the heating inside, with a hundred percent humidity, it is not sleeping, it is spending the night in some way. I'm gonna stop right here. Minister, those poor kids who have no alternative and who decide to make their way without asking the state, as the migrants did in the nineteenth and early twentieth centuries who decided to find their way, must also feel humiliated by a representative of the government? This is the drop that overflows the vase. We felt obliged to sign - not our own initiative, but SEL's colleagues - a direct call of responsibility on his part. It wouldn't be bad if once in a while, within the government, when these things happen, someone said: "I don't justify myself, I have faults, I have made mistakes," as is done in all normal and democratic countries. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-737.ana.u12	He's enlisted to speak Senator Quagliariello. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-737.ana.u13	Mr President, Minister, yesterday I was invited to a television show and I could not help but think of you, Minister. The transmission opened with ISTAT data on employment. Then there was a service on the municipalities in default and how this situation impacts on youth employment. There has also been a cold emergency service and it has proved that Malpensa airport has become the surrogate of popular homes for older people and young people who are out of work. Finally, a report was broadcast on the hospital in Nola. Objectively, our country is in a situation of great difficulty. Apart from these images, I think we can agree on that. I confess to you, Minister, that I like your language, partly because I am an opponent of the politically correct. But I must also tell you that there is a sense of the institutions that should lead to a consideration of the historical time we are living. When you do not play an institutional role, you can express yourself as you want. At a time when you accept what is a yes, but sometimes it is also a burden, you have to adapt to what the institutional role requires. You, Minister, did not do that. You have offended our young people who are forced to go abroad, but you have also shown that you have not, in my opinion, understood the phenomenon of employment in a globalised society. You have proposed an autarchic image of work, distinguishing those who remain in our country from those who choose to go abroad, or very often are forced to do so. The truth of the work today is that there is a circularity. Therefore, what we should guarantee to our country in this historical moment is that some intelligences can go abroad, but others can come here; and that Italy, for which intelligence has always been a factor of development, does not have a dry loss for a situation in which export becomes a necessity and the circularity of work is blocked also because obviously who should understand this phenomenon does not understand it. This would be a dry loss for our country. Minister, you made a dignified debut by saying 'I made a mistake' and apologizing. Sometimes, all this can also be accompanied by an offer of resignation. To resign when wrong, in fact, is not an offense, it is not a show of weakness, but very often it is a show of strength and consider one's job as a commitment to the country to be carried out until it is too wrong. It is a test of sensitivity that we would hope for because it would also be a change of climate and sign compared to what we have seen in our most recent past. [[Applause from the LAG Group (GS, PPI, M, Id, E-E, MPL)]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-737.ana.u14	He's enlisted to speak Senator Barani. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-737.ana.u15	Mr Minister, as a Group, we have nothing to reproach you for in relation to your Dicastery and your activity as a Minister. We believe we have to give her ample time, but the issue today is another one. You see, Minister, when a surgeon - behind me is sitting his colleague Companione, who is a surgeon - even after having done a thousand great surgeries and saved lives he is wrong and, instead of the kidney or the sick limb, removes the healthy one, it is not enough to say that he was wrong: that surgeon caused a great damage to the person who assisted; we do not know if he did it out of negligence, impiety or ignorance, but he was wrong and that surgeon can no longer do the primary of that operating unit, because he no longer has anything to teach. His apologies and acceptance of responsibility are justified for a cooperative president, not for one who holds the post of Minister of Labour, of welfare. You have contextualized the sentences you said, explaining that you were in the Marches, that you spoke with so many young people and that you had the opportunity to influence and, from this point of view, we believe that you have always worked well; the phrase you have spoken, however, is a milestone compared to which, as Minister, you cannot ignore. I would remind you, Minister, that there have already been cases in the past and I quote just a few: Minister Guidi, for example, had to resign for having made a phone call too much to her partner. I remember Maurizio Lupi's last words when he resigned: I must not defend myself from the accusations and it is not possible to cancel in three days the work we have done in twenty-two months. He had actually done a great job, yet he had to quit. Emblematic is the motion of distrust by the current minister Franceschini against Sandro Bondi for a small collapse in Pompeii; then in the last three months almost everything collapsed: even there is an investigation of the prosecutor's office on the collapses at the temple of Venus, at the necropolis in Via Nola. Yet, at the time, Minister Bondi resigned. I would also remind you of another striking case, Minister, that of Claudio Scajola, who, after using an inappropriate expression, calling Marco Biagi a pain in the ass, had to resign. A minister, in fact, is a bit like Caesar's wife, you have to have no doubts. A minister represents the Republic and must of course act as such. Minister, we believe that you have acted well in the leadership of your Dicastery, but the phrases you have spoken, obviously also rhetorical and allusive - at a time, I believe, even of pressure, for which 100,000 good and intelligent boys would have left and here they would have all remained "guns" - are not consonant with a Minister of the Republic. Therefore, we give ample sufficiency to your ministry as we have given it to that surgeon who never wronged; but at the very moment that he removes the wrong kidney instead of the healthy one he can no longer direct that operating unit. We therefore ask you to remove us from the embarrassment and to make the choice that we think most right, which is not that applause that came from some benches, because that obviously does not deserve it, because those sentences are to be rejected and condemned. We accept your apology and your acceptance of responsibility, but it must also be consequential, Minister: those who cover this important Dicastery cannot stop at the apology, that is not enough, must go further. [[Applause from the ALA-SCCLP Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-737.ana.u16	He's enlisted to speak Senator Tremonti. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-737.ana.u17	Mr President, Senators, I would not have spoken today, but I listened to the Minister's speech, as I have also heard in recent years what he has told us repeatedly about work: if the data were positive it was the Government's merit, otherwise it was not mentioned. The logic was as follows: we are there and so things are going well. It was like in philosophy the case of the savage who says that the sun rose because he woke up: post hoc, ergo propter hoc. In fact, in an economic and social scenario that is no longer only international but also global, the complexity of the phenomena is enormous and the possibility of establishing such points links between some general data and the particular action of a government is simply absurd. Moreover, the same is true of the government's action: to think that the government determines all these facts, such as GDP or work, is frankly out of all logic. For this effect of overall confusion in the order of factors I believe that you should not be deprived of confidence for having committed or said some things, but for not having understood them. [[Applause from the LAG groups (GS, PpI, M, Id, E-E, MPL), LN-Aut and CoR]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-737.ana.u18	Senator Berger is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-737.ana.u19	Mr President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, the information provided by Mr Poletti and his apologies that we have just had the opportunity to listen to in this House should finally end the controversy which has occupied the public debate for far too long and on behalf of my Group I can only express my appreciation for what the Minister has said. As a Group for Autonomies we judged these statements inappropriate when they were made public; we confirm this judgment, while we acknowledge to Minister Poletti the intellectual and political honesty of having recognized the need to correct deeply what has been said. Moreover, the Minister's statements, which we could certainly call at least reckless, could be much more easily contradicted by the many initiatives that this Government, as well as the previous one and the majority which both supported, have put in place to make important changes in the Italian labour market precisely to those young people who suffer most from the rigidities of the system. At a time when statistical data (just look at the latest readings that ISTAT released just yesterday) give us the image of a world of work that has basically held to the economic crisis, but which is still struggling to regain its share, we should have the courage to recognize these innovations, not to call into question the foundations and indeed, where possible, to make further progress in the direction taken. For this reason, on behalf of the For the Autonomous Group, I would like to claim some of these important initiatives precisely in the presence of the Minister himself, making only two references, which are also very topical, since if tomorrow the Constitutional Court were to declare his eligibility, they could be submitted to the popular judgment by referendum. The first reference relates in general to the jobs act (and the partial abolition of Article 18); the second to the regulation of the use of vouchers. In the first case it was intended to simplify the regulatory system of the market, removing it from some rigidities and an excess of bureaucratization that has all too often penalized workers and companies by inhibiting the propensity to hire. In a context like the Italian one, strongly unionized and subject to a corporate conservation that can hardly be traced in other Western countries, the jobs act has represented a reform that even France or Germany have appreciated and in part even resumed. The second subject, Minister, is the vouchers: a subject that is very close to the whole world of work in my territory, the province of Bolzano - as has been mentioned just now - and of which we claim without inhibition the effectiveness so much as to ask you, Minister, not to make any changes to legislation that has already been tightened up that was not desirable. As the data recently provided by the competent authorities, which refer in particular to our territory, the use of vouchers, especially in agriculture and tourism, has given the possibility to activate new job positions by making employment in a legal way. We reject, moreover, the thesis of those who claim that the use of vouchers prepaid has occurred in damage to fixed-term contracts, because on the contrary - I always carry the example of the reality in which I operate and which I represent - not only the activation of fixed-term contracts has increased but to increase has been above all the so-called occasional occupation that in the past was not done: it was not possible to do it because there were no tools to legalize forms of work that could not be framed either in the fixed time or in the indefinite one. For these reasons, Minister, I would like to express our solidarity with you. As I have already said, we seek the dignity of the worker in work and not in controversy. [[Applause from the Aut Group (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT) - PSI-MAIE]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-737.ana.u20	He is registered to speak Senator Barozzino. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-737.ana.u21	Minister, we of the Italian Left, together with other political forces, have tabled a motion of distrust and, after listening to it, we think that we have not only done well, but that this initiative is a necessity: you cannot be Minister of Labour in Italy. He spoke of quality of work; she obviously doesn't live in Italy or she lies shamelessly, because, beyond the fact that there is no work, what little there is of quality doesn't really know what to do with it, the quality of work no longer exists. Perhaps you miss the fact that work in Italy is now reduced to vouchers (121 million vouchers in 2016): when workers strike to preserve their dignity and the job is replaced with workers paid with vouchers; so I literally don't know what you're talking about. He said he wanted to apologize to our young people. I think that in a democratic country, excuses should be accepted if they are sincere, Minister. Perhaps you miss the fact that, with the jobs act you endorsed with your Government, a worker who lives, barely of his own work, if he makes a much smaller mistake than his own, is fired and crucified. So, I don't understand why you can apologize when a worker can't do it. Perhaps she also escapes that, with the jobs act, if the judiciary recognizes that the worker was right, he is sent home for 30 denarii. [[Applause from the Misso-SI-SEL Group.]] He cannot retain his dignity in his place of work. Since on principle I think things have to be said to the end, I would add that I do not believe that if this government were replaced by another, things would improve because, as is said on my side, the fish stinks from the head. I would like to remind everyone in this House that we must not talk about the latest figures from ISTAT and, therefore, 12% of unemployment, 40% of youth unemployment, which in the South exceeds 50%, because these figures are not true. Mr Minister, you know that they are much higher because today, thanks to you and your Government, a worker who has a few vouchers is also declared to be employed, so that he is not unemployed. Minister, I invite you to reflect on what you are saying. One final consideration. The jobs act cost the beauty of 20 billion euros, literally given to multinationals that, moreover, do not pay taxes in Italy. If that money had been used to make a real plan on work or, at least, a guaranteed minimum income experiment, they would have gone to the people who need it and would have stayed in Italy, they would have been put back into circulation in the economy. You gave 20 billion public money to people who pay taxes abroad and have produced nothing but unemployment. Minister, you should be ashamed of all this because Italy needs more. [[Applause from the Misso-SI-SEL Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-737.ana.u22	He is registered to speak Senator Marino Luigi. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-737.ana.u23	Mr President, in today's debate on the information of Minister Poletti, the motions of mistrust presented by some minority groups are afoot. I have been opponent and competitor of Giuliano Poletti, but not in the political field; more recently we have collaborated to try to do something useful for the growth of our country. Poletti, of course, is not born Minister; he has his own story that speaks for him and that is neither obscure nor contradictory. It is the story of those who have worked to create businesses, employment, youth enterprises and youth employment. I am a direct witness to Poletti's many statements and the passion with which he supported and brought youth cooperatives and for example the commitment of the new generations in companies. My ideas didn't collide yesterday and they don't collide entirely with his today, but I have always appreciated the intellectual and personal honesty, transparency and correctness of behavior. Of course, in his style there is the taste of anecdote and colored bar, typical of the land of Romagna. However, I do not even think that in his well-known statement Mr Poletti intended to say what he did not say. You, Minister Poletti, did not offend young people, as Senator Quagliariello said; in the most absolute way. You didn't say that the young people who leave our country are a burden to get rid of. Those who have strongly exploited and criticized his words have focused only on the first lines of his statement. As you rightly pointed out in this House today, in the following lines - especially in the terminal part - you said (I quote: We must offer young people the opportunity to express skills, competence and know how to do this here (i.e. in Italy). What is this if not the call to Italy system to make our company more efficient and competitive in order to absorb employment and, of course, more and more youth? The spirit of the statements you have made today demonstrates your thinking and your intentions, beyond the manipulations that I have still heard in this House. Do we want to talk about young people? Do we want to talk about young people going abroad? Shall we talk about the so-called brain drain? We will look more fully at these aspects when the motions of mistrust are discussed. It will be interesting to see how that discussion will be articulated and what the proposals will be after making the diagnosis of those who - especially among the younger generations - go abroad. With the motions of mistrust oppositions take the opportunity to raise the shot on social and labour policies, as we also heard a while ago. The People's Area Group supported them with conviction, although improvements in vouchers and procurement are not to be excluded. We are defending the establishment of the labour market law, and that is why - yes here - we do not agree with your statement that the subject of the referendum does not arise if we go to vote first. Of course the subject is not raised, but we do not agree because we do not agree in the run-up to the elections and then because if this race does not allow the referendum to take place this is not right or fair. The country needs to be confronted again with the labour market measure and this needs to be done not in 2018, but in 2017. I shall conclude, Mr President: for these reasons, we hope that the information given here by Minister Poletti will put an end to the instrumental controversy. Minister, we also express our personal and Group solidarity with the recent personal attacks on you and your family. [[Applause from the AP Group (Ncd-CpI)]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-737.ana.u24	She is registered to speak Senator Montevecchi. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-737.ana.u25	Minister, you come here today with your ash-sprinkled boss and apologize for your unhappy utterance. We take note of that. However, you are making another slide in researching the reasons for the situation we are in today. It is right to retrace the excursus, but you start with the 2008 crisis, the 2011 pension reform and the school-business break-up, because there is an urgent need to create young people with skills, skills and know-how. For us, instead, we must create adults who know how to be active citizens and participate in this society, who therefore know how to think and rebel, when it is right, with constructive criticism. Then he goes on to tell us - and here is the slide - his fairy tale, the fairy tale of a minister in Wonderland. I, on the other hand, would like to awaken her from this fairy tale because in this world of wonders that she has told us by snooping some data, in reality, do not live so many young people and adults. In fact, yesterday's figures from ISTAT remind us that in this country youth unemployment has increased by two percentage points only in the last month, at 39.4%, and the overall unemployment rate is at 11.9% if we do not consider the inactive because, Minister, many people have lost the spirit and the desire to seek work, are frustrated and depressed because they do not see prospects. So if we add these people and count them to an unemployment rate of almost 20%. The world of work has certainly not improved, excuse me, with its policies because the jobs act has done everything except give more stability and less precariousness to the world of work in this country. Let's start with the vouchers that exploded. In 2016 we had more than 145 million vouchers and this thanks to its policies that have expanded the audience of those who could take advantage of it and raised the roof. We therefore have an increase in vouchers, compared to 2015, by 30 percent and 70 percent more than in 2014. The contributory reductions that had been planned to encourage permanent recruitment, I apologize Minister, have served to create a narrative, an occupational bubble that is only part of your political narrative rather than of real data, a political narrative, a slogan that you have used variously to try to bring home other political objectives that were not to really give stability and to combat precariousness in this country. Then why are these young people leaving? We tell them because they go away: they leave first because they feel ignored and abandoned by a self-referential policy that in this legislature has shown that they have more attention for the interests of lobbyists, banks, insurance companies and their interests in the field rather than really to launch policies in favour of young people and older people in order not to suffer the daily precariousness not only material but also emotional, which comes from not being able to rely on a job or being able to relocate to a truly flexible and functioning world of work. We have 28.7% of Italians at risk of poverty or social exclusion. The citizens' income, our proposal, has been in the Commission for two years and more because you do not want to reason and you are blind about it. 47.3 percent of people say they can't afford a week's vacation, 17 percent can't heat their homes properly, 11.8 percent of people say they can't have a proper lunch and 15 percent of people say they've had arrears for mortgages, rents or bills. They close 390 businesses a day and 11 million people give up care, and this is because you have pursued policies, and you have pursued policies in the world of work that have not only betrayed the expectations of young people and their parents, but have also betrayed the principles enshrined in our Constitutional Charter because Article 3 requires the Republic to pursue policies that ensure equal opportunities for all and a development of the full person through the guarantee of economic rights as well. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] Article 4 requires those who govern to guarantee the right to work, because it is also (and not only) through work that the development of the human person is carried out. Then, dear Minister, I hope to see you again in this House presenting concrete measures to ensure that young people do not feel abandoned, but feel accompanied and listened to by a government that is in perfect continuity with the previous one; moreover, you are still Minister of Labour, but also with those who preceded you were deaf and blind, as well as incompetent. [[Applause from the M5S Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-737.ana.u26	Senator Palma is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-737.ana.u27	Mr President, if politics were cynicism, as some colleagues have done, I would simply remind the Minister of the substantial breakdown of the so-called jobs act, namely the unemployment rate of over 11% and the youth rate of 39%; but since I personally believe that the true meaning of politics is humanity, I will not touch political issues and I will only focus on the real and substantial meaning of his statements. Minister, you said that Italy will not suffer from having people who have left abroad no longer standing in the way of them: it is textual. Then, Minister, I would like to say one thing: you know that this country has been flown for years by emigration and you know how much attention our Constitution and we ourselves lend to Italians abroad, so much so that they can have the right to vote. Do you really think, Minister, that our Italy will not suffer or have not suffered to no longer have Renato Dulbecco, Rita Levi Montalcini or our colleague, Senator Carlo Rubbia, who were forced to go to work abroad and there, through their studies and their research, collect the fruit of a Nobel Prize? A Nobel prize that probably, if that or this Italy had given them the opportunity to work, would have reached here in our country. You see, Minister, both you and Senator Marino, in repeating the sentences you had to say, you have paused on a point of the second period and you have both missed a passage in your statements that represents exactly your thought and your inadequacy to be the Minister: we must give them the opportunity to return home. No, Minister; a Minister for Labour must work to give young Italians the opportunity to work here in Italy. [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII]] Mr. Minister, let's face it: our children, except those who, for their specializations, need to go to work abroad, do not go abroad. They don't go because they have family protection here and they have families that support them. In other words, those young people who go out are young people without family protection who live the drama of a non-deserving selection that belongs to this country and which I do not think you, Minister, have done much about. We could still go on, but from the point of view of humanity, the one to which I referred earlier, Minister, your apology is unacceptable, because they do not take note of a serious tragedy in this country. It is not only and so much that of young people who are forced to go to work abroad, as that of detachment from families, from all those families who know or imagine that they know that they have young people who are not "guns" and are not the worst of all, but are young people who cannot work in this country and are forced to leave. And you, in order to do all this, what do you say? It tells us that Italy will not worry about not having them in the way anymore. I believe that your apology is not acceptable and I wonder one thing. I say this very frankly; I said it in a press release immediately after your statements and I repeat it here in this House. Do you really believe that your apologies can be accepted by the family members of Valeria Soresin, Fabrizia Di Lorenzo, Giulio Regeni, all three went to work abroad because they had not had the opportunity to find work here in Italy? [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII. Comments from the PD Group]] In conclusion, Minister, you have your age and your experience: take note of the situation, take note of the fact that your statements cannot be excused and take the steps you have to take, removing this House from all embarrassment when you have to vote - I hope not - the motion of distrust for your resignation. [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-737.ana.u28	She's registered to speak Senator Parente. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-737.ana.u29	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, we note the Minister's apologies in this prestigious Senate Chamber. An act of excuse is an act of humility and strength at the same time, and also of great responsibility. The case is closed for us. But in order to deal with these issues, we need truth operations. Meanwhile, to address the issue of the so-called brain drain, I believe that the Minister did not say something wrong when he said that the boys and girls who stay here in Italy have no less talent or talent than the others who go abroad. We need to address the issue of brain drain in various ways. First, we are living today in a world that offers much more opportunities than previous generations. So the brain drain should be renamed as a great opportunity. Those who choose to experience abroad are more free to do so than in the past. In a global world, there are many more international teams, especially in the field of science, and collaboration between talents is crucial. In Italy there are many examples of excellence: we have folders full of our young people who are awarded and our centres of excellence that are at the forefront of the world. This means that we must look after the history of generations. We are all talking about young people: I invite those who have not yet done so to go and see a beautiful exhibition by ISTAT that talks about the history of generations from 1926 to today. Let's just think about how much life expectancy has changed: Grandmother Mary, who is described in this exhibition, had a life expectancy of fifty-two years, while her granddaughter Giulia today has a life expectancy of eighty-four years. Let's think about how the history of generations has changed. The world we live in is a global world where our children have knowledge in their pockets and access to the world. That's it. And when Senator Quagliariello speaks of circularity of work, he refers exactly to this. Secondly, for those who want to return to Italy, there must be a public policy here that helps the return of our young people who choose to return to Italy. In the law of stability we have included substantial help, from the fiscal point of view, for our children (the so-called "brains on the run") who want to return to Italy. Finally, our commitment is how everyone can access this open world, and therefore build a society in which there are equal opportunities for access, and how our country becomes attractive (developing and creating jobs). I remember that in the law of stability is contained a package of measures, which has never been there before (Industry 4.0), to make our country attractive. I very much respect the debate on vouchers, and the Minister has just announced that there will be additional corrections, of which no one is talking, with substantial measures to strengthen the skills of our young people. But real public policy is the one that strengthens and aims to support the skills of young people in an open and global world. So the theme of politics today is to build opportunities in Italy for those who want to stay and develop a system that can attract even those who want to enter our country. I would like to make a comment on the data, as I have already done on other occasions. We can divide, majority and opposition, on the quality and types of interventions to be done at work, but we must talk about data with the necessary care, because the data photograph a reality. The annual increase in employment is indicative of the fact that we are moving towards a stabilisation of employment, even in the face of a major economic crisis, despite the fall in employment figures in November. And the rise in youth unemployment indicates the decline in inactive people. Our young people, that is, have more confidence in showing up and looking for work. Then we'll split up on policies, but on data, please, let's try to make some real sense. As the Minister knows, what still needs to be done is to support a genuine active policy, because only then will we be able to intercept the feeling of discouragement and loneliness of our young people. ANPAL, in fact, is leaving. This is a policy of truth, and deciding on public measures to help young people is part of everyone's responsibility. I conclude by saying that it is not acceptable, neither justifiable nor conceivable to attack the Minister's Minister and his family in these hours. Our solidarity is full. [[Applause from the PD Group]] Citizens and citizens, especially the youngest, need solutions and not a climate of hatred and violence. And, please, it is the responsibility of all of us, majority and opposition, to be attentive to the words we use here, to language, because we must be the first example for our children who look to the future. [[Applause from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-737.ana.u30	I declare closed the debate on the information of the Minister for Labour and Social Policy, whom I thank for being available.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-737.ana.u31	The next item is the debate on document IV-c, No 4, which contains: Application of the first paragraph of Article 68 of the Constitution in criminal proceedings against Senator Gabriele Albertini (criminal proceeding No 7061/13 RG). The Assembly's report on parliamentary elections and immunities has already been printed and distributed. I would remind you that the Council of Parliamentary Elections and Immunities decided, by a majority, to propose to the Assembly that it consider that the statements made by Senator Albertini constitute opinions expressed by a Member of Parliament in the performance of its duties and therefore fall under the first paragraph of Article 68 of the Constitution. I would ask the rapporteur, Senator Filippin, if she wishes to speak. (17.48 a.m.)
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-737.ana.u32	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, this case forms part of criminal proceedings No 7061 of 2013 for the murder of aggravated slander, referred to in the combined provisions of Articles 368 and 61 (10) of the Criminal Code. The investigation of this proceeding by Senator Albertini ended on 26 June 2014, as shown by the notice of conclusion of the investigations, on the same date, sent by the Brescia Public Prosecutor to the Senate by letter dated 13 August 2014. At the origin of this procedure is the exposition sent on 22 October 2012 to the Minister of Justice by Senator Gabriele Albertini, at the European Parliamentary time, on the work of Dr Alfredo Robledo. Before continuing in the examination of the case related to criminal proceedings n. 7061 of 2013, on which the Assembly is called to give its opinion, it is necessary to take into account the complex and articulated history that has seen repeatedly, in various locations and with various roles, confront the former mayor of Milan and European Parliamentary, Gabriele Albertini, then senator, and Dr Alfredo Robledo, then assistant prosecutor in Milan. The first phase concerns the civil proceedings before the court of Brescia (No. 17851 of 2012) following the suing of the then MEP Gabriele Albertini by the public prosecutor Alfredo Robledo, in relation to the interview given to the journalistic newspaper "Il Sole 24 Ore" titled: ==References====External links==* Official website For this and other interviews, Dr Alfredo Robledo filed civil case for defamation before the court of Brescia (No. 17851 of 2012). In relation to this procedure, Senator Albertini, at the time of the European Parliament, filed a request for the protection of privileges and immunities, but this request was rejected by the European Parliament on 21 May 2013. The same fate had the request for a review of 17 July 2013, rejected by the European Parliament on 24 February 2014. On 7 August 2014, Senator Albertini then invested the Senate, pursuant to the first paragraph of Article 68 of the Constitution, in the question of the insindacability of the opinions expressed in the interviews that had originated the aforementioned civil case. The Council of Parliamentary Elections and Immunities, which was being examined on 3 September 2014, proposed to the Senate Assembly that it declare its incompetence as being the competence of the European Parliament. This is because Senator Albertini, at the time of these interviews (2011), was a member of the European Parliament and for having been the latter also involved in the review. On December 4, 2014, the Senate Assembly approved the proposal of the Junta de qua quando declaring its incompetence to deliberate because the person concerned did not qualify as a senator at the time of the events. The second stage concerns a criminal proceeding (No 7061 of 2013) pending at the court of Brescia for aggravated slander. As he recalled, at the origin of this procedure there is a statement sent on 22 October 2012 to the Minister of Justice by Senator Gabriele Albertini, at the European Parliamentary time, on the work of Dr Robledo. Senator Albertini, on 28 July, also made a request to the European Parliament for the protection of privileges and immunities for such criminal proceedings. At the same time, however, on July 29, 2014, Senator Albertini asked the President of the Senate, again for the above-mentioned criminal proceedings, to invest the Senate in its indisputability of the opinions expressed. On 25 March, the decision of the European Parliament came, confirming the previous decisions of 21 May 2013 and 24 February 2014, but referring to the civil proceedings, thus stating that Gabriele Albertini was not defending the privileges and immunities in relation to the criminal proceedings. The European Parliament's explanatory statement was as follows: it was considered that there was no evidence that there was a direct and obvious link between the views expressed and the parliamentary functions. With a note dated 13 June 2016, Senator Albertini then presented a new application to the Senate Council, entirely replacing the previous one, in which he requested, pursuant to the first paragraph of Article 68 of the Constitution for criminal proceedings, the indisputability of the opinions expressed. In it, Senator Albertini radically changed the request stating, unlike before, the competence of the Junta of the elections and parliamentary immunity of the Senate also for his then role as European parliamentarians, and asked to assert the unmistakableness of the opinions expressed as they carried out in the specific course of his activity. As has been said so far, the Council of Parliamentary Elections and Immunities and this Assembly had already expressed their views on the issue of civil judgment No. 17851 of 2012 for defamation, always pending before the court of Brescia. Given the diversity of proceedings - civil the first, criminal the second - originated from different facts (interviewed in the first case and exposed to the Minister of Justice in the second), it is considered that the principle of ne bis in idem is not invoked. Thus rebuilt the overall history resulting from the statements made by Senator Albertini, there are arguments in which it is believed that the opinions expressed by the Senator can be considered covered by the healing of inindacability. First of all, the question of the competence of the Junta of the elections and parliamentary immunity of the Senate and therefore of the Assembly is, in essence, that of the existence of the criminal presuppositions of the alleged slanderous conduct of Senator Albertini. As I recalled, at the origin of this procedure there is the exposition sent on 22 October 2012 to the Minister of Justice by Senator Albertini, at the time unquestionably parliamentary European, on the work of Dr. Robledo. However, this exposition represented only one chapter in a long succession of acts and reactions, which saw the magistrate and the senator repeatedly confront themselves, with statements, complaints, complaints and complaints. I recall only the most significant ones, also taking into account their temporal succession: on October 22, 2012, as I recalled, Gabriele Albertini, then a European Parliamentary, sent to the Minister of Justice the exposition cited several times. On February 24, 2013, Gabriele Albertini was elected senator. On 27 March 2013, Dr. Robledo denounced Senator Albertini for what was stated in the exposition of 22 October 2012, pursuant to Article 368 of the Criminal Code and 61, n. 10, of the same penal code or for aggravated slander. On 4 July 2013, Senator Albertini renewed the exposition to the Supreme Council of the judiciary, which followed, on 20 September 2013, the transmission of the said exposition - still the same - to the Attorney General at the Supreme Court. On 29 January 2014, Senator Albertini presented a question to the Minister of Justice, always with the same content. In the absence of a reply, the question was put again on 10 June 2014. On 18 June 2014, the Minister of Justice replied to both questions. On 26 June 2014, however, the investigations were concluded, so the Brescia Public Prosecutor sent the conclusion notice. The request for referral to the judgment of Senator Albertini by the public prosecutor of Brescia is October 23, 2014. But this is only a part of it. Senator Albertini turns out to have carried out interventions or performed acts typical of the parliamentary mandate on this affair for the beauty of thirty-eight times. The fact that Senator Albertini was also exposed to the same issue during the 17th national legislature, that is, the one in place, cannot be considered irrelevant. On the contrary, this is precisely the basis for establishing the competence of the Junta before and of the Assembly after. The further statements challenged to Senator Albertini on the slope of the mandate of Italian parliamentarians were in fact numerous and fully coincident in terms of object, matter, assumptions, facts and objections carried out. In addition, these were not acts or declarations made afterward in order to cover the statements for which there is a criminal trial. Instead, it is in the presence of the natural continuation of the activity of manifestation of thought and criticism of judicial policy that is proper to the exercise of the parliamentary mandate; it places itself in direct teleological connection with the first statements (exposed of 22 October 2012), which have been taken into consideration by other bodies of constitutional importance (the Supreme Council of the judiciary) subsequently pronounced on the conduct of Dr. Robledo. I will not say why the MSM has spoken: I believe that all colleagues are able to find out for themselves. He pointed out that, in terms of criminal charges, the aggravated slander that challenged the then European Parliamentarian Gabriele Albertini was repeated, reiterated and better specified. It is quite clear that the absolute continuity of the senator's work would demand a scrutiny of the profiles of insindacability based on the continuity and logical coherence of his conducts. In this sense, moreover, the fact that the European Parliament has declined the healing of insinuation since there has been no evidence that there is a direct and obvious link between the views expressed and the parliamentary functions is an additional argument for the House to speak on the merits of fumus persecutionis and to acknowledge the full existence of the functional link of the Senator's statements made extramoenia with a perfectly consequent parliamentary conduct. But there is even more. It is worth noting that the same Protocol No 7 on the privileges and immunities of the European Union requires that: For the duration of the sessions of the European Parliament, members of the European Parliament shall enjoy: In the present case the reverse would be realized, that is, neglecting the bond of all evidence and, from the perspective of criminal indictment, the bond of continuation that unites all the conducts of the senator [[. (The microphone switches off automatically]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-737.ana.u33	Please conclude, Senator, if you can do that, because we have already gone a long way.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-737.ana.u34	FILIPPIN, rapporteur. I understand, Mr President, but I hope that you will be able to explain why the Junta adopted this opinion by a majority. All this would essentially leave the senator in a grey area of non-protection, resulting from the theoretical extension of the restrictive principle of European parliamentary insanity. All this to the detriment of the application latitude of the first paragraph of Article 68 of the Italian Constitution. I leave out the comments of the judgments already cited and, precisely in the light of these conclusions, it is proposed that the Senate Assembly should declare itself competent to assess in the substance the functional link between the statements of Gabriele Albertini and his position as senator, in the light of the whole story that saw him oppose the action of the magistrate, who is part of the criminal process at his expense. It is also necessary for the Assembly to consider the multiple statements made by Senator Albertini, including those contained in the statement of 22 October 2012, covered by the criminal referred to in the first paragraph of Article 68 of the Constitution, because in a logical and functional connection between them. From this comes the exclusion of the anti-juridicism of the statements for which Senator Albertini is burdened by the charge of aggravated slander. For these reasons, the Junta proposes, by a majority, to the Assembly to decide that the statements made by Senator Albertini constitute opinions expressed by a member of Parliament in the performance of its duties and therefore fall under the hypothesis referred to in the first paragraph of Article 68 of the Constitution. [[Applause from the PD and AP groups (Ncd-CpI) and Senator Buemi.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-737.ana.u35	I declare the debate open. He's enlisted to speak Senator Falanga. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-737.ana.u36	Mr President, I have only five minutes in general debate, so I will be able to make very few comments. I therefore reserve the right to be more careful when considering the matter in the explanation of vote, in which I have ten minutes. In reading the report of the Junta, Senator Filippin failed to mention the judgments of the Court of Cassation of 2004 and 2007, in which the Court states that in the former Article 10 (now 9) of the European Protocol No 7, on the privileges and immunities of the European communities, there is an express reference to national disciplines precisely in the matter of immunity for the conduct carried out in the country of belonging. Senator Filippin left him out of his report today as well as - alas - he broke this Senate Assembly when on 14 December 2014 she affirmed her incompetence by devulging the European Parliament's decision on the matter. Moreover, it should be noted the sterile attempt, which is incapable of deepening the issues underlying the issue, namely the continued crime referred to in Article 81 of the Criminal Code and Article 16 which deals with jurisdiction when there is a continuing possibility of a criminal offence. All of this today, in a scant report, without any legally relevant arguments, leads the Junta of Parliamentary Elections and Immunity to a conclusion to which I too, Senator Albertini. However, if you will allow me, I come to you with a more technically correct reasoning; a technical reasoning that on the other side of this Chamber - I must say - I am not even able to do so, so they leave out what is essential: they leave out the judgments of the Court of Cassation, they leave out the deepening of the continuing crime; they leave out the examination of Albertini's statements that went in a direction that I will tell you shortly in the explanation of vote, and not in the direction that they had identified the first time, on 14 December 2014. You have to tell me this; you have to admit it. I would have appreciated if Senator Filippin had said they were wrong in 2014. We told you you were wrong in 2014. Today we cannot come to the conclusion that we arrived at in 2014 - and we come to this House today - with a fluctuating of arguments that were perhaps useful at that time, indispensable in order to reach a different conclusion. The Democratic Party has alternating currents; I do not know what reasons today induce this majority to come to a conclusion diametrically opposed to that of a few months ago. For the truth, I can imagine them because I do not lack imagination, but I do not let myself be carried away by that culture of opposition, however and at all costs. I am glad that you have come to the conclusion you have reached; I am happy for you because in this way you begin to give signals - which I think you should give in a stronger, more determined, more determined way - of guaranteeing and protecting our functions and institutions in our country. I shall conclude this general debate. Then I'll tell you what you didn't consider precisely with regard to the correct application of Article 16 of the Code of Criminal Procedure, Article 81 of the Criminal Code and the interpretation of the judgments of the Court of Cassation (well two) of 2004 and 2007 in the field of investigation concerning the correct application of the aforementioned Protocol No 7, in particular of the former Article 10, today Article 9. I'll tell you later. [[Applause from the ALA-SCCLP Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-737.ana.u37	Senator Casson is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-737.ana.u38	Mr President, Senators, when, under this procedure, the first rapporteur appointed by the President of the Council of Immunity illustrated his considerations and conclusions during the sitting of 24 November 2015 asking for the substantial rejection of Senator Albertini's claim, I found myself in his linear and transparent legal and political requests, also because they confirmed the previous decision of the Council of Immunity and the Senate Chamber in relation to the civil case for which, too, Senator Albertini had requested and claimed immunity, which correctly, in relation to the civil case, junta and Senate had denied. When, however, at the session of 5 October 2016, the new rapporteur, appointed as a result of renunciation of the first, totally modified the previous conclusions, after a sort of long legal ride or, better to say, after an incredible climb on the slippery mirrors of the law, I realized that much did not fit and I started in Junta to ask to know the head of attribution, which then did not seem to be even the second rapporteur in its exact configuration. Inopportunely, the Junta decided by a majority not to acquire even the request for referral to trial, from which the head of accusation could have been clearly deduced. However, from the folds and the implications of the file, we were able to identify the head of charge and to know, therefore, that the court is proceeding against Senator Albertini for facts committed until October 2012, when that is, Dr. Gabriele Albertini was not even senator. I remember that the head of charge is certainly not fixed by the Junta or the rapporteur and certainly not by the Senate. Not even the court can change it from office or authority. The head of charge is set at the beginning on the basis of a constitutional principle and it is necessary to decide on that. Therefore, the head of attribution refers to October 2012. Dr. Albertini was not a senator and, therefore, the matter should simply end here, without having to go and discuss Article 81, which is not even contested in the head of attribution or of different and subsequent dates. The rapporteur's request today, however, obliges me to re-read Article 68 of the Constitution, which consists mainly of two paragraphs. The first refers to the opinions expressed and the votes given in the performance of the duties and states: Members of Parliament shall not be required to respond to the opinions expressed and the votes given in the performance of their duties. That is the principle that must be applied. The second paragraph refers to a whole other case and, that is, to that of interventions of a precautionary nature, real or personal, such as the restrictive measure, such as searches, such as kidnappings, for which the authorization of the Chamber to which it belongs is required. At the time when the measure is requested, it must be assessed whether the person is part of a branch of Parliament. All the other situation, as I recalled and read, is that which refers to the first paragraph, according to which votes and opinions must refer to the exercise of duties. The constitutional principle is very clear. I remember a Latin brocardo: in claris non fit interpreted. This is not about discussing the relations between Dr. Robledo and the current Senator Albertini, the clashes and the, even rather harsh, polemics that have occurred. There are different sectors and areas that are discussing it; there is a pending civil case: there is criminal proceedings, as we heard earlier; there has been a basically disciplinary procedure for the transfer of Dr. Robledo by the Supreme Council of the judiciary. These are, however, the institutionally correct areas for intervening on these events. 6.15 p.m. (Following CASSON). This is not about personal relations, but about our Constitutional Charter and respect for its fundamental principle. I say this because in the long climbing on the mirrors we try to find and use hermeneutical criteria of the Supreme Court of Cassation to settle the whole issue. Among other things, at least in my opinion, the Supreme Court of Cassation is also mentioned out of place in the general debate both in the Assembly of Parliamentary Elections and Immunities and in the Assembly. I quote the two judgments, one from 2004 and one from 2007. However, the judgment n. 10773 of 2004 has absolutely nothing to do with it, because it concerns paragraph 2 of Article 68, as clearly written by the Court of Cassation section six, which refers to a judgment of the Constitutional Court, expressly citing the interpretative, hermeneutical and application criteria of paragraph 2 of Article 68 of the Constitution (it was a search that had nothing to do with the votes expressed). The second judgment cited is No 35523 of 2007, which certainly refers to paragraph 1 of Article 68 of the Constitution, but simply referring - just read it - to the criteria, on the one hand substantial and on the other procedural, for the application of this privilege or immunity to European parliamentarians, as well as to Italian parliamentarians. I said that it is enough to read because we must not stop at the first part, which may be useful in some situations, but we must read it to the full, because first of all it is a reference to the European Protocol in question also mentioned by the European Regulation of 2014. Article 9 of the Protocol states, equal to Article 68 (1) of the Constitution, that Members of Parliament may not be prosecuted on the basis of opinions and votes cast in the performance of their duties. This rule of the European Parliament is very clear. Even when reference is made to all the other successive rules of the European Parliament concerning privileges, immunities and revocation, the defence of European privileges and immunities, one forgets - at least so far it has forgotten - that Article 9 of the Rules of Procedure refers to procedures relating to immunity for Members of the European Parliament. This means that if, in essence, the concept of immunity in force in the State from which the Member of the European Parliament comes applies, European procedures must be followed and, that is, the European Parliament must be asked to take action to withdraw or confirm immunity. The articles in question are 5, 7, 8 and 9, which (in particular Article 7) expressly refer to cases where a request for protection of privileges or immunities has been made if circumstances are considered to constitute, inter alia, an obstacle to the expression of an opinion or a vote in the exercise of the mandate. This is the substance and the procedure is expressly indicated: Commission, plenum, possibility of revocation. Let us therefore read these rules to the full and distinguish the fundamental protection from the procedural lines. I shall finish my speech quickly by saying that we are not required and must not intervene on the relationship between two people. We must reason on constitutional matters, without referring to statements made in the work of mayor and then to European Parliament. It is a question of judging whether, in the exercise of the duties of senator, the situation as it is contested has occurred. So that's why, in my view, we wouldn't even be competent in the first line, as we decided in 2014, as the Senate and as the Council of Immunity, in relation to the civil cause. The current and current situation is quite similar but if we were to go into the substance, the request for privilege and immunity must be rejected because there is no reason to argue that the statements in question were made in the exercise of the duties of senator. [[Applause from the PD Group and Senator De Petris]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-737.ana.u39	Senator D'Ascola is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-737.ana.u40	Madam President, I would not like to speak on the grounds that this report is too much of a document to show that Senator Albertini's statements have been made under the umbrella of the cover provided by Article 68 of our Constitution. Rather, I would like to address the question of competence because I regard it as the subject of misunderstandings and, above all, because it is the preliminary aspect of the matter. It is clear that we can be interested in whether or not it is possible once it has been established that the Italian Parliament is competent to assess Senator Albertini's statements. However, the misunderstanding concerns precisely the question of competence because it fails to evaluate not only Article 3 of the Rules of Procedure of the European Parliament but also Article 9 of Protocol No 34 on guarantees and immunities, the text of which, contrary to what I have heard several times in contexts that have always been objected to even in the course of the proceedings of the Junta of Parliamentary Elections and Immunities, in its double letters a) and b) is absolutely clear in asserting a principle that is stubborn not to understand. The principle is as follows and the reading of the text will confirm the goodness of my modest convictions, which, moreover, are perfectly consistent with what two judgments of the Court of Cassation, expressly devoted to the subject, have absolutely agreed. Article 9 contains a kind of equivalence clause. It is basically stated in point (a) that the European Parliamentarian for the facts committed in the territory of the State of belonging is subject to the guarantees and the protection criteria laid down by the internal order of belonging. The rule is very clear in its literal wording. In point (b), the text lays down a different principle that the European Parliament is, on the contrary, subject to different rules whenever the fact has been committed within the territories of different Member States, of course, by the Member State of origin. Therefore, we cannot escape this distribution of competence which is based on a historical rule for all kinds of proceedings, that is, the place of commission of the crime or, better to say, what is supposed to constitute a crime. This rule determines the perfect discipline of referral, as the Court of Cassation states, a perfectly receptive reference to the national rules of guarentigia to the facts committed in Italian territory by the European Parliament, so that we have a very clear situation: the Italian Member who has committed in Italian territory a fact that is estimated to be assessed in the same way as the first paragraph of Article 68, subject to this discipline. Therefore, and I say this with absolute moral certainty, it is perfectly irrelevant to mention Article 68 in its articulation, i.e. when it comes to the exercise of functions. In fact, the exercise of the functions of European Parliament is perfectly equivalent to the exercise of the functions of national parliamentarians whenever the fact of which it is discussed has been committed in the Italian territory. It is Article 10 of Protocol No 34 on the privileges and immunities of the European Community, now Article 9, which leads to this perfect overlap, in the sense that the European Parliamentarian - I say this once again - applies the legal discipline which applies to a national parliamentarians. There is more and this is clearly stated by the Court of Cassation: it is not only the substantive rule of law, i.e. the legal framework of immunity, but also the procedure and what it provides for the competent bodies to decide, since - this is said by both the sixth criminal section and the first criminal section of the Court of Cassation - Article 68 is not a rule but a principle: therefore, the implementation of the constitutional rule implies the application of all the procedural stages also in the identification of the bodies responsible for the application of Article 68 and the affirmation of the existence of its presuppositions. This statement - I repeat - lies not only in the good reading of the text of Article 9 of the Protocol, which is the rule linking the qualification of a Member of the European Parliament and submission to the discipline of Article 68, but also in the jurisprudence of the Court of Cassation; the latter, moreover, I add only incidentally, is an unfavourable discipline. In fact, in the two cases before the Court of Cassation, it was a question of whether the Member of the European Parliament should enjoy the greater and wider discipline laid down by the European rules, namely Protocol No 34, or the much more limited guarantee laid down in Article 68 of our Constitution. Article 10, now 9, of the Protocol on Privileges and Immunities states not only that a Member of the European Parliament cannot be held, but that he cannot be subjected to any form of judicial proceedings. The Court of Cassation, in deciding on this distribution of jurisdiction, excluded that an Italian Member could benefit from the much more favourable discipline of Article 10, now Article 9, of the Protocol on privileges and immunities laid down for Members of the European Parliament. Before closing my speech, because I believe that it is enough to read not only the articles we are dealing with, but also the case law mentioned in Senator Filippin's report to reach the conclusions that I can only suggest to this House, I would like to point out one more circumstance. Senator Albertini has a dual function in his figure: he was a European Parliamentary at the time of the event and he is a Senator of the Republic at the time when we are considering the applicability of the regime of Article 68 of our Constitution to a Member of the European Parliament. Here comes a further criterion, senators and senators, that of the effects of a possible judgment, because the political body prejudiced by a possible criminal procedure that would result in a judgment would, in fact, be the Senate of the Republic. Therefore, here not only applies the rule under which the European Parliamentarian, if he commits a fact on the national territory, as would have happened in the case of Albertini, subjugates, pursuant to Article 9, the rule interposed by virtue of the judgments n. 348 and 349 of 2007 of the Constitutional Court, but belongs to that body, Senate of the Republic, which would suffer the effects of a judgment handed down against him. [[Applause from the AP Group (Ncd-CpI) and PD]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-737.ana.u41	Senator Cucca is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-737.ana.u42	Madam President, I must say that I am a little embarrassed to speak after the thorough report by the rapporteur, Mrs Filippin, and especially after the, as always, masterly speech by Senator D'Ascola, who, I believe, has completely cleared the field of the doubts that could arise on this matter. Frankly, talking about climbing on slippery mirrors, when you read a judgment in a definite way, and the fact that Senator Albertini is not mentioned in the specific case, but it is a matter of different facts, can not imply that the principles established by those judgments recalled both by the rapporteur (they are contained in the report) and by Senator D'Ascola, in order to finally clear the field from any misunderstanding. Here we must try to understand what Senator Albertini has put in place and which is well explained in the report, which I invite you to read; unfortunately the time has been tyrant and it has not been possible for the rapporteur to make known the exact outlines of the whole story. But, reading the report filed in the proceedings, we understand what has happened in this matter. It is true, as Senator D'Ascola has already explained, that it was a story that was born when Senator Albertini was a Member of the European Parliament; but it is a story that has gone on over the years with a series of repeated behaviors implemented by Senator Albertini (not by the European Member of Parliament Albertini. All these behaviors led to thirty-eight complaints and thirty-eight measures against Senator Albertini, always with the same accusation. I would like to remind you that we discussed in Junta about the head of attribution and that in Junta it was said that the head of attribution was present in the proceedings; and it was recognized as being present in the proceedings, that was well clarified. We have never refused to acquire documents of any kind; this was a totally useless request, because in the documents the head of attribution was already present. I was therefore saying that that series of behaviors, which have been repeated for thirty-eight times and which have originated thirty-eight proceedings, cannot be considered individually, but must be evaluated in their complexity and in their entirety, united - as is well explained in the report - under the so-called constraint of continuation, provided for by article 81 of the penal code. It is also said - I want to read this part of the report - that, if we were to think differently, that is, if from the perspective of criminal indictment the link of all evidence between these behaviors were to be overlooked, then if we neglected the constraint of continuation, Senator Albertini would have found himself and would have been without any protection, even though he was acclaimed - I believe that even the decisions of the Supreme Council of the judiciary, called by the rapporteur in reading her report, confirm this in an undeniable way - that there had been an attitude that we can certainly consider as persecutory towards Senator Albertini. This led the Junta to take the decision it took, without changing its guidelines. I would also like to recall that the first decision had been taken on the basis of a single fact; but the question that was proposed by Senator Albertini in the matter we are dealing with today, and which led the Junta to take the decision to formulate the proposal of insindicability, instead, concerns the integrity of its behaviour. That's what we're talking about. We are considering, as we must always do in taking our decisions, whether there has been a persecutory attitude towards the Member of Parliament. We have established, we have established and we have convinced ourselves that this persecutory attitude has been there; in this sense, therefore, our proposal has been made. That's what we're talking about. Then there is the jurisprudence of the Constitutional Court, admirably and masterfully recalled by my colleague D'Ascola, who clears the field from any misunderstanding, even from the point of view of law. So it seems to me that the matter can be considered absolutely defined in its outline and that the decision taken is absolutely the correct one. [[Applause from the PD and AP groups (Ncd-CpI)]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-737.ana.u43	Senator Albertini is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-737.ana.u44	Madam President, the text I have prepared would take 17 minutes, but I am saving it for you. I just want to mention a few points to clear the way for some misunderstandings that have led to completely misleading assessments. The reasons for disagreement between me and Dr. Robledo are known and come from afar. He tried in every way to bring out charges criminally relevant in the years when I was the mayor of the city of Milan. Nothing to object on my part, except to defend myself; evidently, he had his reasons to consider me worthy of such attention. As we all know, the prosecutor has the right and duty to prosecute under Article 112 of the Constitution. However, once I had abandoned the role of mayor and elected to the European Parliament, I decided to defend myself in public from these attentions, which I know are improper and, above all, exercised with unworthy methods of judicial functions in a modern advanced democracy. It was then that I spoke, in some interviews, in very critical terms about the methods used by Dr. Robledo in carrying out his duties and, precisely, I pronounced the words "methods" by Gestapo, referring in particular to the way in which some people were treated, informed of the facts, during the investigations conducted by Dr. Robledo himself. I was sued for defamation. Once I had received the summons, and in the course of the mandatory mediation attempt, I even offered to reach an agreement that could close the dispute (good, without any retraction of criticism) but asking that the amount of money offered by me (35,000 euros) be donated in charity to the National Work of Assistance for the orphans of the military of the Carabinieri's weapon or other NGO at the choice of the actor, for a noble purpose. Dr. Robledo refused the offer and from this I understood that he intended to obtain a sum of money to keep for himself, believing that he could wipe out the terrible stain of my words. After the trial, the civil decision, last September 2, among other things, is expressed on the point: "Correctly, by the defendant's defence, the elements known and known by Senator Albertini at the time he made his statements to the press were highlighted, stating that the public assignee of the proceedings had used behaviors that could be defined as "Gestapo" methods. These elements were made up of the statements Giancarlo Penco personally made to the then mayor of Milan Albertini, in the presence of several persons. I will spare you all the reading of this subject, but I will leave it for your consultation. From this judgment emerge elements that lead to believe the truth, at least "putative," of the passage: "the investigation starts from the same prosecutor who questioned at night with methods by Gestapo the city councilors (...)" (Translated with Google Translate) Furthermore, factual truth also emerges. Those who want to read the sentence will find the sequence of the interrogation: fourteen hours of interrogation and threats of incarceration had not been affirmed what Robledo thought to be a truth. For a crime, then, inconsistent: i.e. the signing of blank amendments to the City Council. The same topics as the interviews were the subject of a presentation to the Minister of Justice. This was followed by the complaint of aggravated slander that we are talking about now. I should like briefly to refer to the parenthesis which has been mentioned, examining it from a different scenario, in relation to my request for inconvenience as a Member of the European Parliament. The proceedings conducted at that Assembly ended with a negative outcome. To my great surprise, the European Representative Assembly did not consider my statements to be covered by the scope of immunity deriving from the elective office. It has already been mentioned why this is surprising. However - and that is the point - the explanation of this outcome had to come to light in the months following the vote in Brussels, when I learned that Dr. Robledo had worked to influence the investigation into the insinability of the opinions expressed by me, and had put in place a stigmatizable course. Already as part of a process between individuals - the one in which he was an offended party for aggravated calumny - he should have refrained from any intervention in the particular fora in which the parliamentary bodies, and only them, must be able to assess the validity of the request for activation of the prerogative. But he should have done this more rightly as a magistrate of the Republic, which should not tend to influence, in one way or another, the development of a power proper to another power (in the case, even supranational and using improper and ambiguous links and adhesions). That is certainly not what I am saying, which may appear to be a partisan or biased argument to some extent. This time everything takes on an objective, certain and unequivocal light, since Dr. Robledo suffered a conviction from the disciplinary section of the CSM that, after having imposed a sanction on him in provisional and precautionary session, he then confirmed the validity of the charge and the blame, condemning him also in full merit and arranging the transfer from Milan to Turin. The device published by the CPMP disciplinary section on 11 November (it is very recent) found Dr Robledo guilty precisely in the head of blame concerning his undue interferences to influence and alter the course and outcome of the European Parliament's proceedings concerning me. Also in this case, in the shorthand report you will find all the elements of these provisions, with Chapter I and II of the device of the disciplinary section that concerns precisely the actions that have been carried out by Dr. Robledo spreading news about investigations carried out by his office and receiving in exchange information concerning my procedure to arrive - as in fact happened - a countermemory. I would point out that up to now I have maintained the description of events on a deliberately aseptic tone, without expressing any judgements except on the basis of the judgments of a court such as the disciplinary section of the CSM, where, moreover, I was also called to testify under oath. But there is more. When, on 3 November, it seemed that this House had to vote on the proposal approved by the Assembly of Elections and Immunities on 25 October, Dr Robledo went further. With a statement called "Petition" he worked in a collection of signatures against the next resolution of the Senate that he allowed himself to qualify as proof of an unbearable privilege, and as an effect or object of a vow of ignoble exchange. He then addressed other epithets to this Assembly and concluded by defaming me by giving credit to the idea that I would threaten to withdraw my support to the Government if I had not been granted parliamentary inadmissibility under the first paragraph of Article 68 of the Constitution. What is most striking is that he speaks of "something that is horrifying" and tries to describe this as "my personal matter." He writes: "They cannot, the senators, squirrel in their privileges, blackmail the institutions with their position and always remain unpunished." I recall that one hundred and seventy-four senators have signed a question (let me point out that I am one more than the last confidence in the Renzi Government and five more than the first confidence in the Gentiloni Government), in which the Minister of Justice is asked to initiate disciplinary action against this magistrate. I do not want to read the rest of my speech because the time allocated to me has passed, but I would like to conclude by reminding this House only that my case is not a personal one, an episode or a single one. What we are doing here and now, if you vote in the direction requested by the rapporteur, is the defence of Parliament's independence and the distinction between the powers that lie behind our freedom and our Republic. [[Applause from the AP Group (Ncd-CpI) and PD. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-737.ana.u45	Senator Albertini is authorized to hand over his speech to be attached to the Report. The debate is closed.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-737.ana.u46	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-737.ana.u47	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-737.ana.u48	FALANGA (ALA-SCLP). Promissio boni viri est obligatoio: I promised you a little while ago in general discussion that I would explain to you in more detail the reasons that induce our Group to believe that the conduct of Senator Albertini is unassailable. [[Comments of the FI-PdL Group XVII]] It's Senator Caliendo! PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Please, Senator, continue your speech by addressing the Presidency. FALANGA (ALA-SCLP). You see, ladies and gentlemen, there are those in this House who are unable to undress themselves as magistrates, judges, to wear those of the Member of Parliament. Senator Casson, you know how much you value her, but - alas - you have this little flaw; you cannot strip yourself of your culture as a magistrate to hire, share and marry that of a Member of Parliament. A short time ago I referred to Article 81 of the Criminal Code, in the matter of continuation in the crime, and Article 16 of the Criminal Procedure Code, which identifies jurisdiction for related proceedings at the court responsible for the most serious crime. Reasoning in this way we must say that there is a contest of crimes that move from 2012 to 2016, so the competence, in the absence of a greater gravity of the crime, must be attributed - as the norm says - to the judicial office in which for the first time the crime was committed. But here, dear Senator Casson, we are making a lawsuit. We are turning the Senate Chamber into a courtroom and that is not allowed, it is not right. We here must fulfil a function that the Italian people have assigned to us, quite different from that which is conferred on the magistrate who passes the competition in the judiciary. We must look at the matter in its uniqueness. We cannot overlook the fact that Senator Albertini's conducts must be seen, analysed and deepened in their complexity, without rigorous application of the rule. What did Senator Albertini do? That is what we need to assess in this House; that is what the majority has failed to do in other cases. Welcome, then, if today, at least for the story of Senator Albertini, you can reason correctly. What did Senator Albertini do, did he defend himself? I don't think so. Senator Albertini has protected an institutional body of our country, namely the City Council of one of the most important Italian cities. The investigation activities were not directed exclusively at the mayor of that time, Senator Albertini, but they were going to strike the City Council of Milan and Senator Albertini, even if he was no longer mayor of that city but European Parliamentary, intended to protect that institutional body which he had chaired for a long period of time, as he felt necessary to do in his activity and action as a politician. In essence, Senator Albertini exercised a power that was his own as a European Parliamentarian and as a parliamentary of our country today; a power of control that we should all exercise, but not only in this case, but always. I am referring to a control for the respect of the balance between the powers of the State, the different powers of the State. The point is therefore that he intended to denounce something which seriously undermined the balance between the powers of the State. You see, ladies and gentlemen, when this balance is compromised, when it is distorted, there is a serious risk to democracy that we, in the name of the Italian people, must first protect. Senator Albertini invoked the respect of this balance between the powers of the State and did so in a perspective that goes beyond his personal defense, because he was not defending himself from an accusation that was moved to him in the exercise of the function of mayor; his defense went beyond, went to protect the entire City Council of Milan with respect to the conduct of a magistrate who, as we have read and seen, was strongly censored in his conduct by his own body of self-government. We cannot therefore dwell on a game of competence, but we must watch - and we should always do so - how and for what a representative of Parliament is accused, investigated, searched, or alas arrested. This is our duty. I see that today the majority, with this report by Senator Filippin, make a decision that goes in the right direction. I welcome this and also reflect on that Assembly of Parliamentary Elections and Immunities in which we as a political force with 18 senators are not present, with our own representation, for a number of reasons and also for inattentiveness on the part of the organization of this House of the Italian Parliament. We can only do so today in this plenary, while we could have made a guarantee contribution even in the narrowest institutional fora such as the Junta, but we were not allowed to do so. Perhaps our guaranteeing and liberal culture in a certain sense frightens those who think they want to stay on the justiceist side. Today we give a faint signal, we take note of it. We share it, we also express appreciation and say: from time to time, you also learn to listen to liberal voices who can give you suggestions that go in the direction of the affirmation of democracy in our country and, in this specific case, in respect of that balance between the powers of the State which, as I have told you, is a cornerstone of the democracy of a social group and a people. [[Applause from the ALA-SCCLP Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-737.ana.u49	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-737.ana.u50	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-737.ana.u51	BUEMI (Aut (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT)-PSI-MAIE). Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, my speech, of course on these matters, will be on a personal basis, as always on a personal basis within the Council, which pointed out the matter in advance. In fact, I think that, when we have to judge certain situations, we cannot rely on the collegiality of the Group but to deal directly with our conscience and with the knowledge that we have had available. With regard to the technical elements - I am referring to the admirable and courageous report by my colleague, Senator Filippin, and the President of the Senate Justice Commission, Senator D'Ascola - the legal issues are those, the facts are those. There is, however, one issue, ladies and gentlemen, on which I believe we need to focus, and it is the question of the issues, that Mr Albertini's experience clearly highlights: in our work as MEPs, Italians, senators and Members, can we allow ourselves to criticize and draw the attention of those who have the duty to monitor the behaviour of the untouchables? That's the thing. [[Applause from Senator Albertini.]] And that is the issue that has been going on for decades now, ladies and gentlemen, because we live in an unbalanced system, in a system in which we are subjected to judgment, we are invested by popular sovereignty; others, on the other hand, submit to judgment other institutions and public and private subjects without responding to anyone, if not to their body of self-government, which often - let me say - has a disorder. I recognise to the current Supreme Council of the judiciary a certain activism, even in the direction of a verification of the behaviour of its own self-governed, but it takes more courage, it takes more time; one cannot arrive at the events of Milan of an explicit, direct and daily confrontation between operators of justice without there being the necessary interventions. This, Mr Albertini, comes from that world when Mr Albertini had the courage to raise the question of matters. So, ladies and gentlemen, this is not just a question of legal technicality; it is a problem of our political action: can we fully exercise our role as legislators and also as inspectors, with our parliamentary prerogatives, with regard to others or not? If today the response to the relationship of the Junta were negative, who feels to present an act of inspection union towards those environments? We should in fact anticipate the retaliation of someone who feels untouchable and who is allowed, not only to move in the legitimacy of his condition to defend himself from an accusation he considers infamous (the use of methods by Gestapo: how many methods by Gestapo, colleague Albertini, have we had to suffer and suffer in these decades in our country?), but it also allows itself to intervene on the activities of constitutional bodies. I was not in the European Parliament - Mr Albertini said - but I am in the Italian Senate and I know what has been done with regard to the members of the Council, the President of the Senate and the senators who are called upon to decide on this matter. Allow me to say that what happened is at least irrational; for a magistrate in service, however, irritality is not a lack of ignorance, but, alas, a responsibility. Colleagues, I therefore believe that we must vote in favour of this report, as I will do, because it recognizes a situation and recalls sentences from the Italian judiciary and the Court of Cassation (not just one, to be honest) that we often forget when we have to fool someone else. I say this also in function of the Junta because, not always, as in the case of my colleague Albertini the first time, there was the reference to this competence, which was already highlighted in the judgments of the Court of 2004 and in the following years; I refer to the competence of the Italian Senate, in this specific case, to judge according to the legislation in force in Italy a Member, then European and now Italian, who may have committed a crime in the Italian territory. The issue, as colleagues and Senator D'Ascola explained in particular, would have assumed different profiles if the crime had been committed in another country. Colleagues, the legal issues are resolved, but the political question remains, which we must resolve with our vote. As far as I am concerned, it is resolved by a vote in favour of Senator Filippin's report. [[Applause from Senators Silvestri and Longo Fausto Guilherme.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-737.ana.u52	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-737.ana.u53	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-737.ana.u54	D'Ascola (AP (Ncd-CpI)). Madam President, I merely anticipate the vote in favour of the People's Area. [[Applause from the AP Group (Ncd-CpI).]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-737.ana.u55	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-737.ana.u56	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-737.ana.u57	CRIMI (M5S). Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, I will try not to make a legal or technical analysis because I do not think there is a need to explain much to you. I will try to explain what we are voting in such a way that it is intelligible even to the citizens who follow from home because it is important that they understand what is before us. An example that has brought me a colleague is this: a foul outside the area is not rigor. It seems to me that even children who approach football understand this. A foul out of the area will never be rigor, even if it continues within the penalty area. If it starts out of area; it's out of area. I'm taking this as an example to understand what we're talking about. Senator Albertini has committed a crime; that is what Mr Buemi has just said. He said it was a crime. [[Comments of Senator Buemi]] I correct myself: the colleague spoke of a possible crime. According to the D.A., he was going to commit a felony in 2012, and I want to make that clear. Then he is elected senator and since he is elected parliamentarians he intervenes a kind of amnesty of all the crimes previously committed if he repeats them as senator. We are witnessing this. I believe that the vote with which you recognized Mubarak's "grandson" by voting on this issue in this House is comparable to that. The evidence is denied. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] In fact, someone says that vow was more true than that. We're denying the evidence. There has been talk of the exercise of functions. Explain to me in 2012 - the Senate was elected in 2013 - what was the exercise of Senator Albertini's duties when he criticized the institutions, Robledo and what else? What was your right? Then I turn to my colleagues: if you have done slanders before entering Parliament, repeat them now, because, continuing, we make a nice link and say that the crime has continued and this and what you have done before is acquitted of the plano. Let us remember some facts, because it is important to remember. At the time, Senator Albertini addressed the European Parliament, which told him: no, there is no functional link between your political activity and what he has said. Senator Albertini asked the European Parliament to reconsider its request, and the European Parliament told him: then you did not understand well, we have already told you that there is no functional link, enough, stop. And for the second time he said no. Senator Albertini then addresses the Italian Parliament for civil cause and the Senate says: Albertini, if you did it in 2012 (you voted it, all of you and not others) is out of the competence of the Senate. The Senate is therefore incompetent. This is what the Senate voted for in 2014. Then comes the criminal trial and Senator Albertini again asks the European Parliament, which repeats: Albertini, perhaps we did not understand each other: there is no functional connection between the two things. Then Senator Albertini is again addressing this Parliament. Of course, when the request came to Junta the rapporteur, Senator Pagliari - it is right to quote him - asked himself: what are we doing again? Same story, same thing? Of course the Senate is incompetent. What are we talking about? The rapporteur, Pagliari, says a few words, which are contained in the synographical reports available on the Senate's website and which are therefore not a secret act (I say this for Senator Caliendo just to clarify, since in the past we had some discussion about it). Senator Pagliari said: First, Article 68 (1) of the Constitution constitutes a functional guarantee for the exercise of parliamentary activity and cannot therefore be regarded as a privilege. Consequently, this prerogative cannot be applied outside the context of the reference, having to be specifically related to the expression of opinions linked by a functional link with parliamentary activity. Senator Pagliari then repeated what had already been said before. Well, at some point something strange happens. These are the facts, which I explain here: some statements come through the press of Senator Albertini according to which if the unindicability is not voted the government can forget the support and you know how, at certain times, the support of the government has been played on numbers really reduced. Well, at a meeting of the Assembly of Parliamentary Elections and Immunities, the Democratic Party supports and votes on the request to postpone the debate and vote on Senator Pagliari's proposal to reject Senator Albertini's request. This took place on February 3, 2016. On October 5, 2016, after eight months, the Junta returned to the topic and Senator Pagliari withdrew from the role of rapporteur. He feels offended, probably in a regurgitation of pride of a person who knows a little 'right is asked: what are we talking about? What are you making me do? What do you want me to do? I also see this face today in Senator Cucca and in all the colleagues sitting on that side of the House, who are aware that they are forcing and denying the evidence. It is evident that you are really trying to admit something that is neither in heaven nor on earth. I trust someone to understand that this vote, like the one on Mubarak's nephew, will remain in your senator's resume and no one will take it away from you. The vote that denies the evidence of reality will remain in your criminal record as a senator. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-737.ana.u58	Senator Crimes, there's no criminal record of a senator.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-737.ana.u59	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-737.ana.u60	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-737.ana.u61	MALAN (FI-PdL XVII). Madam President, the Senators of Forza Italia who are members of the Junta - Senator Caliendo, Senator Alicata and myself - voted in favour of Senator Filippin's report and we did so because we fully support it. I refer to what has been said in Junta, particularly by Senator Caliendo and Senator Alicata, and what has been said in this House by the rapporteur, Mrs Filippin and Mr D'Ascola, and I do not dwell on the arguments except to underline something that the previous speech has left aside a little, namely that it is not true that the only title of Senator Albertini in order to be able to have the unmistakable both that he later became a senator, because at the time of the events he was a Member of the European Parliament and for all the reasons and precise legal reasons that have been cited, the safeguards, in our opinion, are due to him. I would also like to add another element that has not been mentioned. We are dealing with an affair concerning a complaint against Senator Albertini for slander, but why did he express undoubtedly negative words against a magistrate? He expressed them not in order to defend himself from some accusation that had been made to him, because no accusation had been addressed to him, but in order to defend the public interest in the matter relating to the actions of Milan - Serravalle, where the Court of Auditors has established an erarial damage of 118 million euros. Gabriele Albertini, who was not senator at the time, as mayor, from the beginning, had fought against those who caused that erorial damage. Perhaps this should be remembered by the colleagues of the 5 Star Movement who now make rigorists with Senator Albertini. It should be understood why Senator Albertini expressed those words: he did so in defence of the public interest, in order to find the culprits a lack, of an erarial damage of 118 million euros. I believe that this, even to the voters of the 5 Star Movement, interests more than the single situation of Senator Albertini today. So this is the picture: Senator Albertini didn't suddenly take it out on a magistrate. This magistrate filed a complaint for slander following the words of Gabriele Albertini, who complained about the lack of effectiveness of these investigations. We do not go into the matter because that is not the point, this is the origin of the matter. We, as the Senate, as the Assembly and, before, as the Council of Immunity, have already dealt with this case in civil matters and have expressed our views on the indisputability of Senator Albertini's statements. We express ourselves in the same way today. We note that in the previous phase, when referring to civil action, the response of this Assembly was not in favour of Senator Albertini and we appreciate that a different position has been taken. It would be interesting to analyse the causes and perhaps, rather than the causes, the times when the two opinions were expressed, but I believe that today it is only appropriate to appreciate the current position of many of those who had expressed themselves for the disoriability of Senator Albertini's words, considering therefore that he should be pursued in order to have too much heat defended the public interest, because the only sure thing is that the damage was there. So let's talk about today's situation. It has been widely illustrated that there are all the premises for believing that the words for which Senator Albertini has been accused should be covered by the indisputability provided for in Article 68 of the Constitution, not in defense of the individual person, in this case not in defense of Gabriele Albertini, but in defense of the power of a Member of Parliament to pursue the public interest (and I would say that in this case it is particularly evident that the public interest was pursued), even in a harsh way that in other circumstances could possibly be pursued. Of course you could go into the matter, but this is not the place. This is the reasoning we have made in Junta and I believe that this approach is widely shared by the Forza Italia Group. The indication for the Forza Italia Group is that of freedom of vote and therefore a call to the conscience of every senator of our Group, to evaluate in the light of what has been said and of what they have been able to read and listen: a call to the conscience of each person to evaluate in the best conscience and knowledge of the facts, in the light of all the elements proposed and available. We believe that freedom of vote is particularly appropriate and necessary in such a decision, which is not a political decision. If it were a political issue, we could put it on the side of the majority and the opposition, so Senator Albertini is a majority and we are opposed, but we have not applied this dynamic in any way, neither when it was a person of our own political side, nor when it was a political opponent and we are not applying it today. We appeal to the conscience of everyone and we hope that everyone will do so, in this case and in all cases that will still arise, in this or in other legislation, because here really is not a political issue, but a question of conscience and the conscience of each one with certainty we entrust ourselves, in this as well as in any other similar occasion. [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII and Senator Falanga.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-737.ana.u62	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-737.ana.u63	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-737.ana.u64	MINEO (Misto-SI-SEL). Madam President, I would like to say at once that our position is generally guaranteed. This is, however, about crimes of opinion and not about other more serious accusations that the institute of insindacability, as well as immunity, is questionable. I would also like to add that Senator Albertini is a man of honor and a person we have appreciated many times for his speeches. However, we cannot vote in favour of the majority report, because the facts clearly refer to a period when Senator Albertini was not a senator and because the European Parliament, from our point of view, institutional, non-unionary, for three times felt that it could not agree with Senator Albertini's demands and it would be completely improper for the Senate to decide today to cover this matter with a decision of indisputability. So, in this particular case, since we would not be competent, we will vote against the report and the Junta's proposal. [[Applause from the Misso-SI-SEL Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-737.ana.u65	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-737.ana.u66	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-737.ana.u67	Mr Russo (PD). Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, there is no doubt that the positions which emerged during the work of the Junta and today's debate may appear in many different and partly conflicting passages. This is not surprising and is partly linked to the delicate evaluation of an affair that has been at the center of public controversy even harsh, especially in view of the exceptionality of the circumstance, given that the opinions of Senator Albertini the subject of censorship have been expressed not only on the slope of the mandate of Italian parliamentarians, but also during the period when he was mayor of Milan and European Parliamentarian. [[Brusio.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-737.ana.u68	Excuse me, Senator Russo. I beg the House to lower the buzz.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-737.ana.u69	Please, Senator Russo. Mr Russo (PD). Thank you, President. If, in fact, in itself, on the one hand it is stated that the minimum requirement to assert the healing of inindacability is that the parliamentarians are in office at the time when the fact of which the lawfulness is contested takes place, however - we have been reminded - the statements of Senator Albertini can also be contextualized in a much broader framework, as evidenced by the fact that Albertini himself has carried out related interventions or performed typical acts of the parliamentary mandate for thirty-eight times, even during the present legislature. I believe, then, that this situation, undoubtedly sui generis, can explain better than any controversy the positions emerged during the work of the Junta, sometimes to deny the existence of the functional link and therefore the prerogative of inindacability, others instead of diametrically opposite sign, which then ended up prevailing within the College. Without further entering into the matter, it must therefore be reiterated that today the Assembly of the Senate is called to rule not on the possible criminal responsibilities of Senator Albertini, but exclusively on the existence or not of the functional link and therefore on the applicability or not of the parliamentary guarantee of inindacability. This assessment, as is evident, is extremely delicate and articulate and each individual senator will be called to examine carefully the decision taken by the Junta in the case under consideration, assessing its choice to consider the formal application of the tempus regit actum principle not to be invoked in order to exclude its competence to decide, considering that there is a "limitation of continuation and systematicity" which, by joining all the acts carried out and the opinions expressed by Senator Albertini as an Italian parliamentarians, has placed them in direct teleological connection with the first statements made when he was a European parliamentarians. Precisely because of the peculiarity of the case we are dealing with, the democratic senators will therefore express their vote without any constraint or indication of the Group, within the framework of the most correct relations between the powers of the State, expressing themselves freely only and only on the existence of the functional link, that is, whether or not the opinions expressed in the case in question by Senator Albertini fall within the exercise of the parliamentary mandate and, therefore, within the scope of the prerogative of the inindacability referred to in the first paragraph of Article 68 of the Constitution. [[Applause from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-737.ana.u70	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-737.ana.u71	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-737.ana.u72	STEFANO (Misto-MovPugliaMore). Madam President, I would like to inform you that I will not participate in the vote, in line with the role played in the Junta and the conduct always reserved in Junta.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-737.ana.u73	We take note of that. We shall therefore proceed to the vote. SANTANGELO (M5S). We call for the vote to be taken by simultaneous ballot by electronic means. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I refer to the nominal vote by simultaneous ballot of the Junta's proposal for parliamentary elections and immunities to consider that the statements made by Senator Albertini constitute opinions expressed by a Member of Parliament in the performance of its duties and therefore fall under the first paragraph of Article 68 of the Constitution. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). [[Applause from the PD and AP groups (Ncd-CpI)]] Appreciate the circumstances, postpone the discussion of the subsequent items to the agenda to another sitting.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-737.ana.u74	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-737.ana.u75	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-737.ana.u76	GIROTTO (M5S). Colleagues and citizens, while the energy bills of Italians rise uncontrolledly (as of 1 January, +5 percent those of gas and +1 percent those of electricity), while the production of electricity from fossil sources increases and the production of electricity from renewable sources decreases... [[Brusio.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-737.ana.u77	Senator Girotto, wait a minute. I would ask my fellow Members to leave the Chamber or, if they hold back, to do so quietly.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-737.ana.u78	GIROTTO (M5S). Thank you, Madam President. While this happens, economic development minister Carlo Calenda thinks he will have the same players rewrite the rules of the national energy strategy that those increases are determining. On this point, the 5 Star Movement has tabled a question on which we ask for an answer as soon as possible. What happened specifically? It has happened that Minister Calenda has chosen to involve the US private company Boston Consulting Group, from which Francesco Cuccia, currently head of the technical secretariat of the same Minister, in the consultancy for the review of the national energy strategy. So, a person who worked at the Boston Consulting Group until recently is now head of the technical secretariat, and his former company is given this prestigious assignment. I mean, there's some doubt about it. It would be useful if the Minister came to Parliament to report, instead of entrusting his intentions to a very short tweet. Now, we will check whether or not there is a conflict of interest on the matter, but we would like to clarify another fundamental aspect: who pays that advice. In fact, dear Italians, you must know that this money will not be taken out directly through the Ministry of Economic Development, because the Ministry does not pay them, but Terna and Snam put them, therefore indirectly, always you Italians. Terna and Snam because, obviously, they have a future tied hands and feet precisely to the destiny of the national energy strategy. Therefore, the two main actors are those who pay for the study on which the modification of the national energy strategy should be based. Among other things, two companies that are mainly foreign stockholders and, therefore, may not be able to do national interests. But why was this study not entrusted to our very good technicians, really good, to the Manager of energy services, research of energy system and the national body for new technologies, energy, and sustainable economic development? Why continue to make decisions on national energy strategy and strategic aspects foreign investors? Dear Italians, we have passed, in recent years, from a public strategic control of energy to one at the service of particular private interests whose objectives, however, I fear do not coincide with a model of sustainable development to which we must aim with the national energy strategy, namely the achievement of targets and 2030 targets on reducing emissions, on the increase of the production of renewable energy and energy efficiency, in a word: combating climate change and unemployment. Yes, unemployment, because energy efficiency and renewable sources mean hundreds of thousands of new jobs. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-737.ana.u79	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-737.ana.u80	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-737.ana.u81	RICHIUTI (PD). Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, on 5 January 2017 Tullio De Mauro died suddenly in many respects. I think it is important to remember him also in this Assembly after, in a wide and informed way, Giuliano Amato (who wanted him to be Minister in his last Government), Alberto Asor Rosa, Francesco Erbani, Paolo di Paolo, and many others were publicly mentioned in the press. The reasons why I think it is essential to keep always in mind the contribution of De Mauro, for me who are the daughter of immigrants from the South, who have come to seek a better life in the great outskirts of Milan, are two. For one thing, De Mauro explained to us that language is a place. The language, its languages, its words, its lexicons are a great square to which you enter and where you live. Who can't talk, can't get understood and doesn't understand, so he doesn't have access. He has no access to rights, no access to opportunities, no access to emancipation. So language is a factor of development and equality. There is a close link between language, education and democracy. In this first teaching, however, De Mauro showed us his passion for the knowledge of dialects, for the ways of saying, for the neologisms. He aged, perhaps he founded, Italian linguistics, but he made it a social science, which required the possession of technicalisms but then went beyond, seeking historical depth and future projection. There is no need here to remember his two linguistic stories: the...Language history of united Italy of 1963, and the...Language history of Republican Italy of 1963, whose second edition is 2015. In short, for De Mauro the Italian language is just a "beautiful place" in which can live the cities and the countryside, the centers and the suburbs, the young and the less young. The other reason why I remember De Mauro is connected to the first and has an eminently political connotation: the language, which is a factor of development and emancipation, must therefore rely on an effective, rich and stimulating school. His last battle, that on the illiteracy of return, was born from the reflection that the school must teach to learn, to always be interested in everything, the taste of reading. De Mauro was also very ironic, but his irony was always aimed at disassembling the clichés: he said that reading is a pleasure only for a few, more often it is a fatigue, a complex intellectual operation. So school is a fundamental moment for the individual but also for the community. Language and culture are political profiles. De Mauro explained that if, vice versa, from the knowledge and skills acquired at school he regresses instead of advancing, one gets lost and loses the way to that beautiful square that is our language, that same language in which the Constitution is written. In an introduction to a publication of our Constitutional Charter of UET 2006, De Mauro exalted the Italian of Italians, the clear and profound language in which our rights and duties are carved, and where the dignity of the person is so well represented. [[Applause from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-737.ana.u82	The Presidency is associated with the pain for the death of Professor Tullio De Mauro. He was a cultured man who put culture at the service of democracy and civil growth in our country, so thank you for remembering him, Senator Ricchiuti.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-737.ana.u83	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-737.ana.u84	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-737.ana.u85	THE COURT (PD). Madam President, with this intervention I continue today a relay with which, together with many senators and many senators, we remember every woman who is killed at the hands of a man to whom she is or has been linked by a loving relationship. We will do so as long as it is necessary to remind Parliament and our country of the urgency of combating violence against women. On the night between 23 and 24 December, in Bee, in the province of Verbania, Alessia Partesana, twenty-nine years old, was killed by her partner with a knife. [[Brusio.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-737.ana.u86	I would ask colleagues who do not want to listen to the speech to continue speaking outside the Chamber. We're commemorating people who died violently.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-737.ana.u87	She wanted to leave me, and I couldn't stand it. That's what the murderer said. The couple had a five-year-old girl. In the night between 26 and 27 December, in Parma, Gabriella Altamirano, 45 years old, was killed by stabbing, along with Kelly Manici, transsexual and drag queen, by her partner, who had left after he had initiated her into prostitution by living the proceeds of that activity. Gabriella had repeatedly denounced him for persecuting acts and several times called 112 because he was lurking under the house. This is how the 33 women we remember in this relay, started only on June 30, 2016. Many of them killed after a separation, even just announced. Also as a reaction to a recent separation, a further feminicide attempt took place on January 9, in Messina, where Ylenia Bonavera, twenty-two years old, was set on fire by her boyfriend and is now in hospital with her body devastated by burns. Ylenia did not report her partner, who indeed tried to exonerate despite the overwhelming evidence. Unfortunately a very usual scheme, the same for which yesterday a twenty-three-year-old Albanian girl went to the emergency room in Budrio, in the metropolitan area of Bologna, with a wrist broken by her partner, but refused to report. According to L'ISTAT, a woman is killed in Italy every 2.2 days. 46.3% of the women killed die at the hands of their partner or former partner. The severity of sexual and physical violence has increased. There are also growing cases of assisted violence, that odious psychological mistreatment that consists in letting minors witness acts of violence against an adult who, in most cases, is their own mother. It's not just about the news. There are profound cultural reasons for violence against women and acts of feminicide. There is, in our country, a male issue, understood as an inability of many men to handle the relationship with the other gender in a correct, equal and non-violent way. Let us therefore make our appeal with conviction. It is an appeal to the Government, waiting for the delegation to equal opportunities to be reassigned: the directing booth monitors the application, the merits and the limits of Law No 119 of 2013 to combat gender violence, approved by this Parliament in implementation of the Convention in Istanbul and, above all, give full and accurate implementation to the anti-violence plan. It is an appeal to the media: stop justifying, even with the wrong language, the murderers and to blame women. It is an appeal to the country, men and women: 160 women are killed every year, we can no longer accept this massacre. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-737.ana.u88	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-737.ana.u89	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-737.ana.u90	Mr Barani (ALA-SCLP). Madam President, I would like to remind the House that Lelio Lagorio died on 7 January. He was Minister of the Republic in the 1980s, first President of the Tuscan Region from 1970 to 1978 and mayor of Florence. He was the first Minister of Socialist Defence at the time of the Cold War and he was the first to start our military presence for reasons of peace in Lebanon and in other theaters of the Red Sea, who saw us as protagonists of peace. He increased the military budget, modernised the organization of the Italian military apparatus, as widely recognized in recent years. His contribution was also decisive in the relief and reconstruction actions, with the Army, during the 1980 earthquake of Irpinia. Lelio Lagorio was also Minister of Tourism and Entertainment and several times Deputy of the Italian Republic. He was a great socialist, one of the most visible representatives, along with Luigi Mariotti, of the Florentine Socialist Party. I remember Mariotti was the one who created the health care we now have in Italy. He was the godfather of Law No. 833 of 1978, placed in the PSI on autonomous positions where, according to Lagorio, it was meant autonomy from the Italian Communist Party, the strongest party of the Italian left and the largest communist party of the West. Lagorio will always be next to Bettino Craxi, as he was even when he had to go into exile. I conclude by saying that it was important to remember him as a great figure, because among other things he was Minister in more Dicasteries, but above all he was a pupil of Piero Calamandrei. He, who was born in Trentino-Alto Adige, in Florence gave so much and was lucky enough to be among the collaborators one of the fathers of the Italian Constitution like Calamandrei and this has never forgotten. The memory of all the socialists therefore goes to this great man who made Italy great. [[Applause from Senator Di Giorgi.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-737.ana.u91	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-737.ana.u92	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-737.ana.u93	CHAMPOLILLO (M5S). Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, this speech aims at denouncing the evil administration of the Municipality of Bari by its mayor, dear Decaro, also president of the National Association of Italian Municipalities (ANCI). In order to retrain the public garden Isabella d'Aragona in the beautiful old town, dear Decaro has had 57 centuries-old pines demolished, so as to lead to the blockage of the yard by the competent Superintendence. The fact, denounced by the local press and by myself on social networks, was also the subject of an exposure to the prosecutor of the Republic by the parent to the Municipality of the 5 Star Movement, Mangano. The case, however, is not the first and in fact the dear Decaro, as at the time denounced by me, had already shown himself in this role of tree killer, bringing down 18 majestic pine trees in the neighborhood Japigia, already depressed, in order to realize magnificent concrete rotations of the cost of more than one million euros. To these enterprises must be added the splendid renovation of the central Via Sparano, with the disappearance of at least 25 palm trees, which have been adorning the pedestrian street of the shopping in Bari for years. Finally we could remember the deafening silence of dear Decaro in front of the real massacre of pine trees carried out last July inside the construction site for the new parking lot of the children's hospital in Bari. In short, the city model of dear Decaro, the pupil of the immense Renzi, is marked by the motto "less green and more concrete" and will probably now be exported, as a model of the ANCI, also at national level. Bari is a city with very little greenery, yet the dear Decaro, aspiring woodcutter and now established tree killer, whistling of the rights to health and beauty of the citizens of Bari and, especially, of children, continues unstoppable his shameful administrative action, also assisted by a former parliamentarians of the Greens, already supposedly bulwark of the hypocritical environmentalism of the left, such Vito Leccese. In short, yet another bleak example of the administrative squalor of this PD of Government. The 5 Star Movement invites everyone to reflect on the importance of greenery in our cities as the indispensable duty of every public administration towards citizens, respecting their right to a happy and healthy life. Fortunately, Madam President, even for Bari, despite dear Decaro, the moment of change will soon come.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-737.ana.u94	I communicate that Parliament is convened tomorrow, Wednesday 11 January 2017, at 4.30 p.m. for the vote on the election of a judge of the Constitutional Court. The call will begin with the senators.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-737.ana.u95	The motions, questions and questions received by the Presidency will be published in Annex B to today's report.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-737.ana.u96	The Senate will meet again in public session tomorrow, Wednesday 11 January, at 9.30 a.m., with the following agenda: (See agenda) The sitting was closed at 7.45 p.m.
