ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-822.ana.u1	The sitting was opened at 11.03 p.m. The Minutes shall be read. Mr Frevezzi, Secretary, gave a reading of the Minutes of the sitting of 11 May. PRESIDENT. - The debate is Since there were no comments, the Minutes were approved.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-822.ana.u2	The list of senators on leave and absent on assignment received from the Senate, as well as further communications to the Assembly, will be published in Annex B to today's Minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-822.ana.u3	I would warn you that qualified votes can be taken in the course of today's sitting by electronic means. Therefore, from this moment the period of 20 minutes from the notice provided for in Article 119, paragraph 1, of the Regulation (at 11.05).
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-822.ana.u4	I inform you that Parliament is convened at 2 p.m. on Thursday 18 May for the election of a judge of the Constitutional Court. Mr Senator will be voting first. Therefore the scheduled afternoon session of the inspection union will not take place.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-822.ana.u5	The next item is the continuation of the debate on motions 1-00751 by Senator Mandelli and other senators, abbreviated pursuant to Rule 157 (3) of the Rules of Procedure, 1-00753 by Senator Barani and other senators, 1-00754 by Senator Bignami and other senators, and 1-00755 by Senator D'Ambrosio Lettieri and other senators, on Down's syndrome. I would remind you that during the afternoon sitting on 28 March there was an illustration of the motions and agendas and the debate. I call the representative of the Government, and I would ask him to give his opinion on the motions and agendas that have been presented.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-822.ana.u6	Mr President, I express my views on the motions and I reserve the right to hand over to the Offices the reasons for the opinions which took account of the debate that took place.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-822.ana.u7	The Presidency shall authorise it accordingly.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-822.ana.u8	FARAONE, State Secretary for Health. I would immediately like to point out that there is a sharing by the Ministry on many parts of the motions presented. With regard to the Government's position on the individual commitments of the motions, with regard to Senator Mandelli's and others' motion No 751, I welcome the first commitment of the mechanism; I welcome the second commitment, provided that it is preceded by the formula: "within the limits of budgetary constraints, to assess the appropriateness of the mechanism," and I welcome the third commitment. As regards Senator Barani's and others' motion No 753, a favourable opinion is expressed on the first commitment of the mechanism, provided that it is preceded by the formula: "within the limits of budgetary constraints, to assess the appropriateness of """; a favourable opinion is expressed on the second commitment; a favourable opinion is expressed on the third commitment, provided that it is preceded by the formula: "within the limits of budgetary constraints, to assess the appropriateness of """; a favourable opinion is expressed on the fourth, fifth, sixth, seventh and eighth commitments. As regards Senator Bignami and others' motion No 754, I am in favour of the first commitment of the instrument; I am in favour of the second commitment, provided that it is preceded by the formula: "to assess the appropriateness of the instrument"; I am in favour of the third, fourth, fifth and sixth commitments. I give a favourable opinion on the seventh commitment, only when reworded with reference to the use not of textbooks, but of ad hoc teaching material, on the basis of the principle of personalisation, in accordance with the assessments made by the Ministry of Education, University and Research; I give a favourable opinion on the eighth and ninth commitment; I express a favourable opinion on the tenth and fourteenth commitment, provided that they are preceded by the formula to assess the appropriateness of the eighteenth commitment; I express a favourable opinion on the fifteenth and sixteenth commitment: I express a favourable opinion on the seventeenth commitment, provided that it is preceded by the formula to be preceded by the limit of budgetary constraints; I express a favourable opinion on the eighteenth commitment, provided that it is preceded by the formula to assess the appropriateness of the nineteenth commitment; I express a favourable opinion on the nineteenth one, provided that it is preceded by the formula to be preceded by the limit of budgetary constraints, to assess the appropriateness of the eighteenth commitment; I express a favourable opinion on the twentieth and 21st commitment, provided that they are preceded by the formula to assess the desirability of the appropriateness of the following. With regard to motion 755, by Senator D'Ambrosio Lettieri and others, a favourable opinion is expressed on the first, second and third commitments; a favourable opinion is expressed on the fourth commitment, provided that it is preceded by the formula 'within the limits of budgetary constraints', to assess the appropriateness of the commitment; a favourable opinion is expressed on the fifth and sixth commitments; A favourable opinion was expressed on the seventh, eighth, ninth and tenth commitments, provided that they were preceded by the formula "to assess the appropriateness of "." As regards the Senator Centinario's agenda, I am in favour, provided that the commitments indicated are so partially reworded: I welcome the first commitment, provided that it is preceded by an assessment of the appropriateness of the second commitment; I support the second commitment, provided that it is preceded by an assessment of the appropriateness of the first commitment; and I welcome the third and fourth commitment. With regard to Senator Panizza's agenda, it is a favourable opinion, provided that the first and second commitments are both preceded by the words "considering the desirability of" the matter. The opinion was in favour of the third and fourth commitments.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-822.ana.u9	We shall therefore proceed to the vote on the motions and agendas.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-822.ana.u10	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-822.ana.u11	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-822.ana.u12	COUNCIL (LN-Aut). Mr President, there are about 48,000 people with Down syndrome who, as well as all people with intellectual disabilities, are saying enough to prejudice them as weights and subjects only to assist and care for. These people are saying enough to discriminate, taking more and more protagonism and awareness of their fundamental rights. There is a cultural change that must necessarily lead to a profound change in the social context as well. And at the center of change there must be children with disabilities, as still too few people with Down syndrome are being seriously assisted. Mr President, in my explanation of vote I do not want to do any history of what can and cannot be done. During the research I carried out on this syndrome I found a funny story to tell, which unfortunately is not flour of my bag. The story tells of a parent who has two children, the first of whom has Down syndrome, unlike the second, who is a child. The two children are very close, but over time the little sister, now five years old, begins to ask questions about the conditions of her older brother. The child has a desire to know why - for example - the brother goes to therapy and sometimes has to leave his classroom and companions to go somewhere else. The little sister also wants to know why a companion takes his brother to school and why he uses an iPad to communicate. Until a certain moment the parents were able to answer the questions of the child highlighting the different challenges that each one has to face, without ever mentioning the word Down. However, one day - that day always comes sooner or later - the little girl specifically asks what Down syndrome is. Caught off guard, Dad takes a few moments to gather ideas because, even if ready and prepared for a lifetime - or perhaps not until the end - providing an answer to the child is not the easiest thing. You are probably never ready enough to give such answers. The father then turns to his little girl explaining that Down's syndrome is something that occurs in people before they are born and that people with this syndrome have difficulty doing some things like talking, writing or cycling but, with the help of friends, relatives, teachers and doctors, they can accomplish a lot of things. The father says you just have to be patient and work together. At that point the child asks her dad if she knows someone with this syndrome and the father, after pointing out various situations, mentions the name of the little brother. She will not be the only one, nor the last time Dad finds himself answering her daughter's curiosity about her brother's condition. He gave the child the best possible answer and we must find the right words in recognizing the challenges and goals of his brother. Information, honesty and a lot of time spent together: these are the reasons and objectives that we must pursue in raising our children. The child, after this answer, runs out to play, making it clear, if ever there was still a need, that the brother will do things differently, he will do them his way, but for her it is all he has and for her it is simply a fact of his family life: he is a member of his family, an interesting person to be with, the best big brother possible. Mr President, I am of course in favour of the agenda presented by my Group, and also of all the other motions that have been tabled, although I am a little sorry because on many points the motions are watered down by issues always linked to economic considerations. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group and Senator Manconi]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-822.ana.u13	I must conclude that he accepts, therefore, the proposed rewordings.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-822.ana.u14	COUNCIL (LN-Aut). Yes, I accept you, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-822.ana.u15	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-822.ana.u16	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-822.ana.u17	Granaiola (Art.1-MDP). Mr President, the fact that so many motions have been tabled on Down's syndrome demonstrates a transversal and common awareness of all political forces. However, we must ensure that all motions put forward do not remain words on paper. This should be an opportunity to spread an increasing awareness of Down's syndrome, to stimulate a common commitment of all political forces to put in place concrete actions and measures so that no one is left behind and, therefore, to achieve those inclusion paths provided for by the various motions in school, work and in everyday life, such as having a home, going out with friends, living their sexuality. We really need to take into account the perspective of independent life, according to the UN Declaration on People with Disabilities of 2009, and thus support families, paths of autonomy for children, personalization of interventions and local policies that allow work, home and protect the right to happiness and health of people with Down syndrome. Among the commitments requested by the Government, it seems particularly important to take initiatives to encourage in financial terms research activities not only on prenatal diagnosis, which is also very important, but also on the identification of tools to reduce the intellectual deficit and learning disorders, in particular of children in their growth phase; to ensure greater psychological support for children's parents and a real responsibility for the whole life process of the person; to facilitate the employability of people with Down syndrome, regardless of the percentage of disability recognized and with guided paths; to promote the full accessibility of people in gyms and sports centres, also ensuring adequate professional training of sports operators and, finally, to provide for conscious sexual education programmes. The Article 1 Group - Democratic and Progressive Movement therefore expresses a favourable opinion, assuming the precise commitment to ensure that all commitments are maintained, because they are not, in reality, an impossible mission: it would be enough to look around our country and take example from all those beautiful experiences, carried out above all by voluntary associations, and act accordingly. [[Applause from the GroupArt.1-MDP and Senator Amati.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-822.ana.u18	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-822.ana.u19	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-822.ana.u20	Mr Barani (ALA-SCLP). Mr President, our Group too, in motion 1-00753, obviously wanted to make its contribution to a disease, trisomy 21, which the British doctor John Down had already described in a wonderful way since 1866. In Italy about 40,000 people are affected by this disease and every year one out of 1,000 is affected by it. As you know, there is a Gauss curve linked to the mother's age. We are in a society in which the first pregnancy is at an increasingly advanced age and from forty to forty-five years you have the highest peak for this disease. Therefore, we must prepare ourselves, Mr President, representative of the Government, to have to deal with many more cases in a few years' time. There will be no more 40,000 cases, but 50,000 or 60,000. The only way to prevent prenatal screening is: willing or not, dear colleagues, with prenatal screening you can identify the syndrome and be consequential. Otherwise, we will be faced with a real epidemic that we will have to deal with from a social point of view. I remind everyone that these children, in addition to physical growth disorders, cardiocirculators and breathing - if God wills, science has led them to have an ever longer life perspective - have an intellectual quotient that, scientifically, is around 50 percent. Senator Council first set the example of a little girl who has her older brother suffering from trisomy 21 but that is a lucky case. In the so-called law of after us - I remember that it is a bill at my first signature, the Senate Act 292, converted into Law No. 212 of 2016 - at least the sick person has a family member. So, in the after us, he has a certain point of reference, unlike many who do not have this luck instead. To close, of course we cannot fail to vote on all the motions, even though they have been rewritten by the government and I repeat rewritten and not watered down. In the case of this disease, which is the congenital one most widespread in the world and in Italy, it would have taken more courage from the Government that - we repeat - must take all the initiatives aimed at stimulating in financial terms the research and development of projects and programmes for the support of children suffering from trisomy 21; to put in place initiatives that improve the living conditions of people with this widespread disease, taking into account their increased prospects for life; to put in place appropriate investments aimed at strengthening the independence of people with such syndrome, activities that, moreover, translate into great social gain, as well as economic savings; to promote policies for the encouragement of sports practice in favour of these disabled people (are also suffering from intellectual disabilities), activities that can increase their social inclusion; to put in place communication campaigns aimed at making known the importance of social inclusion for people suffering from Down syndrome and especially to work in the educational context for the reduction of episodes of bullying that - alas - arefrequent. I've already talked about the law after us. Finally, the Government must undertake to proceed with the definition of the essential levels of benefits in the social field to be guaranteed to people with Down's syndrome and the related health programmes to be provided in their favour, to assess the opportunity to widen the audience of beneficiaries and to ensure that the time and modalities for the practical implementation of services and direct support to the people and families of persons suffering from this syndrome are clear. In any case, dear colleagues and dear representative of the Government, prenatal screening is not only necessary, but should be made mandatory. Finally, I accept the reformulations proposed by the Secretary-General.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-822.ana.u21	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-822.ana.u22	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-822.ana.u23	PANIZE (Aut (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT)-PSI-MAIE). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I have very little to add to what has already been said. I have personally appreciated all the motions that have been presented, because they show sensitivity and attention to the subject and are in the wake of the progress that our country has made in this field since the introduction of Law No 104 of 1992. Of course, there is still much to be done, and not only for people with intellectual disabilities or Down syndrome, starting with the definitive removal of all those material and cultural barriers that still do not allow the full accessibility of disabled people to social and working life. In this legislature we passed a law of great civilization, such as the one on the after us, to meet the harshest of the questions that a parent of a disabled person asks: what will become of my son or daughter when I am no longer there or will no longer have the strength to look after him? That is also why I presented the G2 agenda, which was already presented in the course of the debate, which points out some aspects that are particularly important to us, some of which I thought were missing from the other motions. The family is the beating heart of every intervention and around the family must be built an intelligent form of welfare, even with the aim of making less heavy the material, psychological, economic load, to which it is constantly subjected. Together with the National Association of families of persons with intellectual and/or relational disabilities (ANFASS) of Trentino and the National ANFASS we are preparing a specific bill to give parents a pension slide for the recognition of the minimum pension for those parents who have paid at least fifteen years of contributions and show that they have been employed in the care of children with disabilities recognized continuously for at least ten years [[Applause from Senator Bignami]] In this way, families would have greater opportunities to care for their children, allowing savings to be made to the public body that would otherwise be called upon to provide direct assistance. The second point concerns all those realities that, with passion and competence, lend support activities but that, too often, are not considered as deserved. We therefore need formal recognition and active and timely involvement of the most representative and competent national organisations and organisations to deal with these issues. The experience that I have gained in my Province, that of Trento, but also in the rest of Italy is extremely positive: there are really many realities that work in a serious and competent way, with great passion, and above all in a structured way, that have allowed to achieve truly extraordinary results. I assure you that even at the last meeting of the ANFASS last week I was able to understand directly how much has been achieved. So, really, to all the volunteers and all the people who take care of it, our thanks go. The last point concerns support for people with intellectual disabilities or Down syndrome, in order to promote their self-determination through a stronger involvement of movements and self-representation platforms. It is certainly not a matter of overtaking families, but of giving even more strength, where possible, to the processes of inclusion of those subjects who are able to self-manage themselves. What we have put on the agenda for G2 are, in essence, issues particularly felt among operators in the sector, families, the same people with Down syndrome. I therefore hope that this agenda will be adopted, but above all that we will continue along the path of social policies that will increasingly meet the expectations and needs of this world. I would like to thank Mr Faraone for the willingness he has shown towards our documents and I welcome the proposed rewordings, because I also fully understand the needs of our finances. I therefore announce the vote in favour of the Group for Autonomies (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT)-PSI-MAIE. [[Applause from Senators Bignami and Zin.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-822.ana.u24	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-822.ana.u25	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-822.ana.u26	D'Ambrosio Lettieri (GAL (GS, PPI, M, Id, E-E, MPL, RI)). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, a mother says: I wonder, when I look at you, if you know how much you are loved. When I look at you, I wonder how she got lucky to be your mom. When I look at you, I know you've changed my life for the better, and you're gonna keep doing it. When I look at you, I feel true and deep love. Says a dad: Thank you, my son, for what you have given me. Thank you for giving me your existence. Thank you for making us love life. I believe that these statements, taken from the letters of a father and a mother for a son carrying Down syndrome, published and available on the Internet, tell another truth, which seems to us a thousand miles away. When we look at a child who is differently skilled or a bearer of Down's syndrome, we think with great sadness and bitterness that what happened to his family is a tragedy, but this is not and tell us the same parents and family, who even explain to us that what we, from the outside, consider a trauma or a tragedy, is in fact a resource for them. I therefore believe, Mr Undersecretary, that, in a full and profound spirit, declinated and concrete recovery of the principles of solidarity, we certainly need to devote more resources to this very sensitive issue as well. I believe that the Government and the political forces in general, as clearly emerged in the debate on this issue, must contribute to a real cultural revolution, so that the condition of those who bear a disability or Down syndrome is considered as a condition of normality. We need more normality and less indifference, more integration and less marginalization, more solidarity and less loneliness, more awareness and more respect. And I believe that the debate has developed around these very points and the acts of commitment required of the Government have also been articulated. More knowledge is needed of the support measures for families with disabled children; more assistance through better adjustment of the essential levels of care; more balance between disability and employability, including through the use of traineeships; more research and solidarity in the provision of social security, to review the criteria for access to social security benefits. I believe that these points mark the path that must be taken with renewed commitment. The motions presented by all political forces offer us a story that intertwines, in the various stories and sensibilities, a single goal to be achieved: to bring back in emergence - so I dare say - unknown problems that affect many families and many bearers of conditions of disability. Mr Undersecretary, on behalf of the LAG Group and in accordance with the different sensitivities, I welcome the requests for amendments made, with regard to motion 1-00755 of which I am the first signatory, and I strongly support not only our motion, but all the motions tabled, which will ensure that, from next year - but I hope also from the outset - 21 March is not just a day of celebration dedicated to the carriers of Down syndrome or disability, but will become the awakening of a new spring of rights. [[Applause from the GAL Group (GS, PPI, M, Id, E-E, MPL, RI) and Senators Bignami and Rizzotti.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-822.ana.u27	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-822.ana.u28	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-822.ana.u29	ANITORI (AP-CpE-NCD). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, this is a particularly important moment when we discussed how to develop the approach of society and, even more so than the State, how to improve living conditions and the development of people with Down syndrome. As Senator D'Ambrosio Lettieri has just mentioned, the 12th World Day of Down Syndrome was celebrated on 21 March, officially recognized and proclaimed by the UN General Assembly since 2011. The more than 40,000 people in Italy who highlight this syndrome can play an active role in the community. In this respect, the associations in the third sector and, more generally, civil society have demonstrated in these weapons of great vitality and commitment to meet the needs of these people, often much more attentive and effective than, unfortunately, put in place by the institutions. Indeed, those very institutions which seem so far removed from the concrete needs of citizens have been repeatedly urged by associationism to relaunch public engagement in favour of Down people. One of the results that I am pleased to mention today is a project funded by the Ministries of Health and Labour, the results of which have been presented in Parliament. I am referring to the project of the Italian Association of Down People called "Right to Rights" aimed at raising awareness among institutions and public opinion of the need to improve the quality of life of Down people in terms of school inclusion, employment and self-sustaining life. On 28 September 2016, in the Chamber of Deputies, the documentary summary of the project, realized from the life experiences of many Down people, reminded the MPs present at the debate the constitutional principle of Article 3, according to which, with equal rights among all citizens, it is the task of the State to remove the obstacles that prevent everyone from exercising them. In other words, to these citizens in particular conditions, the State must guarantee greater opportunities and rights, in order to fulfil their desire to live an autonomous life, emancipated from that of their parents, based on independence and supported by work. People with Down syndrome have every opportunity to participate in everyday and social life and make a contribution to their communities, provided that the State plays its part and values their peculiarities and abilities. The institutions are called to promote the active participation in the social life of children and adults with Down syndrome through new methods of intervention and in full collaboration with private bodies that have always dealt with this matter. We must encourage Down people to express their vision of the world, putting them in a position to express their different personalities in all possible ways. It is, without a doubt, a long and complicated journey, from the earliest age. In this first scenario, in fact, parents must receive all the information and support necessary to enhance the development of their children in the area of learning and of school and social integration. Therefore, during the adolescence phase, the foundations must be laid for the family and institutions to be able to transmit the tools and elements useful for the valorisation of personal skills and initiatives. Finally, adults with Down syndrome must have the opportunity to choose, make decisions and exercise control of their lives in practice. The goal of independence is based on the construction of satisfactory social relations, on the implementation of processes of inclusion in the school and training system, on the possibility of working and enjoying full and equal rights, without discrimination, in compliance with Articles 19 and 23 of the UN Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities. I would like to recall, at this point, an instrument that Parliament has made available to families with Down children, as a guarantee of their future life plans and independence, even once their parents have failed. I am referring to the law on post-weapons which, since June 2016, identifies and recognises, for the first time in the legal order, specific safeguards for persons with disabilities when relatives who have followed them until then fail. The aim of the measure is precisely to guarantee the maximum autonomy and independence of these people, allowing them, for example, to continue living in their homes or in structures managed by associations, avoiding the use of health care and enhancing the contribution of individuals and the third sector to protect them. The commitments of the four motions and the agenda accepted by the Government reflect precisely these objectives: on the one hand, that of not leaving the parents alone at the time of the diagnosis of the Down syndrome of their child, welcoming the whole family in a path of information and accountability of the actions to be put into practice - in other words, we must ensure greater awareness and knowledge of the syndrome, to create a new culture of diversity and to promote respect and integration in society, starting from the preschool age, of families composed also of children and girls with Down syndrome - on the other hand, the objective remains to put in place more financial resources to be allocated both to research, and to the support of Down people. From the first point of view, in fact, science has not yet been able to determine precisely the causes of the chromosomal anomaly at the origin of Down's syndrome and currently there are no tools to predict and prevent such transformation during fetal development. On the other hand, a greater financial investment is most necessary to develop programs and projects that accompany the lives of Down people, first within the family of origin, then through a phase of autonomy and finally towards full autonomy and independence. For all these reasons, I announce the positive vote of the Popular-Centrist Alternative Group for Europe to the commitments of all four motions and the agenda accepted by the Government. [[Applause from the AP-CpE-NCD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-822.ana.u30	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-822.ana.u31	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-822.ana.u32	BIGNAMI (Misto-MovX). Mr President, Down's syndrome is totally mistreated by the state. Politics doesn't deal with it. The job, which would be important, is not there. Family homes, few, are only for those who can afford them. If anyone asked me if I wanted a Down daughter back, I don't know, to be honest. I can tell you that having a Down daughter is an experience that has improved the whole family. [[Applause from the PD and Art.1-MDP Groups, and Senator Liuzzi]] These are not my words, this era (unfortunately, it was), and someone has already recognized it, Oliviero Beha, Daddy of Saveria, a Down woman. So I want to remember him in his end-of-life despairs. He, a man, a journalist and a father, not on the hunt for sensationalist news, but simply on the hunt for the truth. I remember this journalist, esteemed by all of you, saying: Down's syndrome is absolutely mistreated by the State, which he wrote with the capital S. Here's the real "after us": die aware that the state is not there yet. The state is still attached to the sad, charitable thought, demonstrated by the intervention - which I do not want to define, because of adjectives I would have it in iosa; I get help from Dante, who wrote that "a nice silencer was never written" - of the senator who fears an epidemic of boys with Down syndrome. That saddens me. But what epidemic? They're not infectious. By the way, he talks about Gaussian curves and I'd like him to draw a curve and maybe write an expression, to see if he knows what a Gaussian curve is. These are not Gaussian functions: the conceptions of Down boys are constant in time; but conceptions, while births, which are another thing (maybe I'll explain it later, Senator), are different. Clearly, after thirty years of investigation, many throw them away, abort them, because there is no culture of acceptance and hospitality. For this reason, Senator, review his curves and study conception in relation to birth: he will see that conception is always constant. Don't worry, there will be no epidemics of Down; rather, I fear epidemics of such politicians, who talk without even knowing what [[Applause from the PD groups]] , Art.1-MDP, Mixed-SI-SEL and Mixed-MovX). The state must work, aware that good rehabilitation leads these children to be ready for the world. This is a certainty: they, if well treated, are ready for the world. The problem is the opposite: the world, unfortunately, is not ready for them. How so? It's simple, just look at the data. In my surplus motion of demands, quite demanding. Clearly, they have the right to play sports, but only 8 percent of gyms are able to welcome and physically work a disabled boy. What are we talking about? What was the good school? It was a Waterloo for Renzi, but, in our opinion, it was a damage for all our youth. What about Down couples who come to autonomy, but who are not allowed to rent apartments, because people are afraid and do not know that they are capable? They turn off the stove, don't worry, they don't blow up your apartment. The state must intervene and develop a culture of welcome. Not to mention sex: it's a complete taboo. But these people can have a sex life and they're entitled to it. Let's go back to school. There is no access to the Erasmus programme for people with disabilities; they are not even covered. These are all bugs. An informative campaign, which has little emphasis, informs that when in a company there is a guy with Down syndrome everyone works better, because in front of happy and serene people ask existential questions that can induce you to think that maybe profit is not all that matters in our lives. A righteous state does not give in equal way between unequals, but must give to each one what he needs. This is very difficult but it is yours, our task. I accept the rewording, really hoping that this motion will eventually turn into well-being for these kids. [[Applause from the Mixed-MovX Groups, PD, Art. 1-MDP and LAG.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-822.ana.u33	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-822.ana.u34	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-822.ana.u35	SERRA (M5S). Mr President, we will be voting in favour of the four motions and also the two agendas presented, because the commitments that are being asked of the Government are more than acceptable. Helping parents of children with disabilities and providing them with all the information they need to improve their lives, encouraging programmes for support and learning both in the family and in school, work and sports, are first and foremost common sense. However, I would like to stigmatize that Down's syndrome is the best known among those that cause intellectual disability, and some motions (those of Mandelli and Barani senators) take into account only this syndrome, perhaps because the new LEAs place this syndrome no longer in the chapter from rare diseases, but in those of chronic diseases, changing the regime of research funding, which are greater for rare diseases than chronic ones. In fact, the syndromes that determine intellectual disability are numerous: to be precise, there are as many as 750. Considering the twenty-seven most known, it turns out that about 0.25 percent of the population (so one person every four hundred) has intellectual disabilities due to one of these genetic syndromes. Only the first-signed motions of Senator Bignami and Senator D'Ambrosio Lettieri broaden the spectrum of intervention to intellectual disability. These include galactosemia, mucopolisaccharidosis, Hurler's syndrome, Ito's syndrome, Rett's syndrome (autistic portraits), fragile X syndrome, Klinefelter's syndrome, Turner's syndrome. There are various alterations, related to chromosome 4, chromosome 5, chromosome 6, chromosome 9, chromosome 10, and so on up to chromosome 22. The above list is certainly partial, but it seemed right here to recall some, because even Down syndrome, the most frequent, represents one third of the intellectual disabled, and these syndromes as a whole are two thirds, that is double. The people affected by these syndromes are citizens and therefore deserve identical respect, the same aid and attention. I wanted to remember them because for us of the 5 Star Movement no one, but nobody at all, has to stay behind. [[Applause from the M5S and PD groups and Senator D'Ambrosio Lettieri.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-822.ana.u36	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-822.ana.u37	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-822.ana.u38	MANDELLI (FI-PdL XVII). Mr President, today will certainly be important if what we are saying this morning is not just the exercise of an assembly, but will be followed up. That is why I wanted to present a motion based on what was established in New York, in the United Nations headquarters, which decided to celebrate World Day of Down Syndrome on 21 March. This is a truly important international event, but not because - as some people say - we want to focus only on someone by excluding others: absolutely not. It is an important issue because we, today, wanted to light a lighthouse on a topic in order to involve everyone and to represent that the improved living and health conditions of these people allow to reach adulthood. We therefore need to accompany these people and not just think about the prenatal diagnosis at the initial moment, but to focus on the possibility of devoting resources to research and rehabilitation, for their real accompaniment. Today we are also being listened to by associations closest to the boys and girls who have this syndrome: well, I find that the commitment that we are taking should be considered as the desire to start a path that does not end, but begins here. I accept the rewordings that the undersecretary of Pharaoh proposed and announced that I will present a drafting of the device, the text of which I will deliver to the secretariat of the Assembly, and that we will vote in favour of all the motions tabled. [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-822.ana.u39	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-822.ana.u40	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-822.ana.u41	SILVESTRO (PD). Mr President, Mr Undersecretary, Senators and Senators, on 21 March 2017 in New York, the United Nations Headquarters celebrated World Day of Down Syndrome. The celebration of this day highlights the desire to maintain an international appointment, officially sanctioned also by a UN resolution, to stimulate attention and spread a greater awareness of trisomy syndrome 21 and promote respect and integration of the people who are affected by it. The speeches this morning have shown that this is a common and widespread consideration, on which we are all committed, paying great attention. It is known that the incidence of chromosome abnormalities in general and trisomy 21 in particular is constant in the different populations in time and space. We also know that all possible etiological hypotheses formulated so far have not found scientific evidence in the numerous studies and research carried out. However, several epidemiological investigations have shown that the incidence increases as maternal age increases. In this respect, it should be pointed out that the funds allocated for research on trisomy 21 are allocated more to prenatal diagnosis, while resources are scarce for research, rehabilitation and the identification of tools to reduce the intellectual deficit and learning disorders, particularly of children in their growth phase. We could really do something important and meaningful about this. On this last aspect, a common reflection can be activated, as I said, not only in order to acquire additional funds, which would be appropriate and necessary, but also in order to redirect the use of aspects not yet fully taken into consideration, underestimated or neglected. The living and health conditions of those affected by the syndrome have been objectively improved in recent years and have allowed them to reach adulthood and a clear increase in autonomy. It should not be underestimated, however, as has been pointed out and said, that this situation - although absolutely positive - nevertheless does not allow them to be able to fully cover the needs they have. A support must therefore be hypothesized, activated and maintained, also in order to give greater serenity to the families and make compressible the paths of anxiety and concern of the parents, especially to the thought of the future of their children. The improvement of living conditions is certainly related to that of school inclusion. I am convinced that this has helped to produce greater knowledge and closeness of children to children suffering from Down syndrome, and therefore, with their development, their growth and the attainment of adulthood, greater social inclusion and, consequently, also work. In fact, it is documented that inclusion in the world of work is more widespread, where positive and proactive paths and attitudes are found in different production sectors. There is no doubt, however, as pointed out in all the motions, that much could and still must be done to stimulate and support children and to support adults with ways and behaviours adapted to their potential and to offer and guarantee them further opportunities for a serene, participation and therefore quality life. In this, in addition to what the Undersecretary has already confirmed in his reply, the Law of 3 March 2009, n. 18 concerning the ratification and enforcement of the United Nations Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities, with Optional Protocol, made in New York on 13 December 2006, and the establishment of the National Observatory on the Status of Persons with Disabilities, can be a major driver. In fact, the law, which provides for the establishment at the Ministry of Labour, Health and Social Policies of the National Observatory on the condition of persons with disabilities, must be quickly operational by constituting the Observatory, which the law itself provides. It is therefore important and necessary to put in place what can guarantee a broad and adequate information on all support measures and conditions of school, social and professional inclusion currently available for people with Down's syndrome and for parents of children with Down's syndrome. To take part in initiatives to support and encourage research programmes and activities and projects that support children with cognitive and learning difficulties, especially in the evolutionary age. In this regard, it becomes important to optimise the provisions of the decree of the President of the Council of Ministers on the essential levels of assistance and to put in place further programmes to increase social and working inclusion in order to improve the living conditions of people with Down syndrome, taking into account their increased life prospects. Putting concrete actions in place also means defining and delineating the phenomenon specifically and detecting the ways in which different regions deal with situations related to Down syndrome and people with cognitive disorders. Many municipalities and local authorities are already experimenting with projects and act on pathways of inclusion, support and promotion of life projects that see these fellow citizens there, proactively and positively. In these actions, the Democratic Party will be actively involved in both national and regional and municipal policies in the deep conviction that no one should be left behind, but must be accompanied, supported and supported by the entire national community. Therefore, the Democratic Party Group strongly accepts and supports the views expressed by the representative of the Government and declares an opinion in favour of the rewordings indicated by him. [[Applause from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-822.ana.u42	Before we proceed to the vote, I warn you that, in line with established practice, motions will be put to the vote in the order of presentation. As noted, all the motion-makers accepted the proposals for rewording made by the Secretary of State in his opinions; therefore, the Secretary's opinion became favourable, as the comments made at the various motions and also on the agendas were accepted. Following the vote on motions under Rule 160 of the Rules of Procedure, the agendas for the G1 and G2 will be put to the vote. We shall now proceed to the vote on motion No 751 (text 2). Mr Calderoli (LN-Aut). We call for the vote to be taken by simultaneous ballot by electronic means. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of motion No 751 (text 2), tabled by Senator Mandelli and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (see Annex B). We shall now proceed to the vote on motion No 753 (text 2). Mr Calderoli (LN-Aut). We call for the vote to be taken by simultaneous ballot by electronic means. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of motion 753 (text 2), tabled by Senator Barani and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (see Annex B). We shall now proceed to the vote on motion No 754 (text 2). Mr Calderoli (LN-Aut). We call for the vote to be taken by simultaneous ballot by electronic means. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of motion 754 (text 2), tabled by Senator Bignami and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the vote on motion No 755 (text 2). Mr Calderoli (LN-Aut). We call for simultaneous ballots to be carried out by electronic means. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I refer to the nominal vote by simultaneous ballot of motion No. 755 (text 2), tabled by Senator D'Ambrosio Lettieri and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). Having been requested, I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of the agenda G1 (text 2), tabled by Senator Centinario and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). Having been requested, I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of the agenda G2 (text 2), tabled by Senator Panizza and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B).
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-822.ana.u43	The next item is the continuation of the debate on motions 1-00603 (text 2), tabled by Senator Romani Maurizio and other Senators, 1-00774, tabled by Senator Mandelli and other Senators, 1-00776, presented by Senator Gaetti and other Senators, 1-00777, presented by Senator Council and other Senators, 1-00779, presented by Senator Barani and other Senators, 1-00780, presented by Senator D'Ambrosio Lettieri and other Senators, 1-00781, presented by Senator De Biasi and other Senators, 1-00605 (text 2), presented by Senator D'Ambrosio Lettieri and other Senators, 1-00614, presented by Senator Guerra and other Senators, on hepatitis C and Stomized Subjects. I remember that in the afternoon sitting on 11 April the motions were presented. Senator Council is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-822.ana.u44	Mr President, this is the third day when people's health motions are the master of it. We've moved from HIV motions to hepatitis C motions, passing through Down syndrome motions. This is a desire - perhaps a need - for this House to light a beacon, if anything, on health issues. Today we are talking about hepatitis C, which affects 80 million people worldwide. The motion that I am going to explain contains in the premise a brief summary of what was done at the Conference on retroviruses and opportunistic infections (CROIs) held in Seattle with the imperative to eliminate hepatitis C, as well as with reference to the paradoxical situation of the new drugs that work so well and cost the wrath of God. The hope is to treat all these subjects, of which 80,000 are Italian. AIFA identified in 11 points the treatment criteria which, on paper, should also lead to the treatment of patients with less severe forms of chronic hepatitis C. In the motion we ask that the government undertake to implement the new plan, with the forecast to cure about 80,000 people suffering from hepatitis C per year for three years. In addition, we have stressed in the premises the tragedy of people with hepatitis C, who have difficulties in accessing new therapies that eradicate the virus. It seems quite clear to me that this is not worthy of a national health system that is defined as universal and fair. As I said earlier, in our motion we call on the Government to implement immediately the new plan for the eradication of hepatitis C and to make every effort to ensure that prices for access to medicines are as low as possible. We also call for clarity on point 8 of the new criteria laid down by the AIFA so that there is extreme clarity in the interpretation, especially with regard to which cases and on which sick people can and must intervene. We have also focused on the question of research and prevention, in particular on the need to combine research with the obligation for the State to ensure that the price is always lower in order to extend treatment to all and to touch with hand the difficulties of prevention in order to break the chain of infection from the hepatitis C virus in people at high risk, such as prisoners in prison. Hepatitis C also affects 30% of these people, and it is important that these people, often young adults with drug addiction experiences, be aware, like everyone else, of the risks associated with certain behaviors and the possibility of preventing the spread of infection during detention, but especially when they leave prison. The drug, Mr President, will continue to be a valuable commodity, so it is inevitable that it will be sold. It is clear that a valid National Health Service should at least interfere with the laws of the market, especially in cases such as this regarding hepatitis C medicines. The National Health Service must make medicines accessible to all, which is not the case; but the absolutely incomprehensible issue is about health cuts. It is clear that putting a state in a position to have access to treatment that is absolutely affordable against the inability of this government to cut health costs. This allows us to have a positive attitude towards the other motions and, above all, ours, but we note great difficulties, since a health minister openly declares to go abroad to buy the same drug at much lower costs. Perhaps this is not the ideal way to have a positive attitude towards health.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-822.ana.u45	Colleagues, a greater summary of the speeches would perhaps allow us to vote on the motions on this subject too, since at 1 p.m. the work of this House ends and there are also important meetings of the Commission that have already been convened. I therefore appeal to my colleagues to do so. Senator Dirindin is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-822.ana.u46	Mr President, the motions on hepatitis C that we are debating today stem from an extremely positive fact: the success of scientific research in the field of pharmacology, the result of which is an extremely important drug, because it is effective, at least as far as we know in the short term, compared to this infectious disease. Yet the placing on the market of this new drug has made clear, in all its complexity and in a resounding way, a situation in which, I believe for the first time at global level, a supply is being compared on the market, which we can certainly define speculative and which sees the drug only as a source of profit, and a demand, that coming from states, governments and health protection systems, unfortunately unable to fully exercise the functions of programming, negotiation and regulation. These are not my words, they may sound like strong words, but the UN says so, which in September 2016 published a report on hepatitis C drugs, in which it states: The price of the new hepatitis C drugs is imposed for each country at the highest possible level for national wealth, so that it is sustainable only on condition of treating a minority of patients. In this way an unprecedented rationing is required, which not only violates equality in the face of health, but forces medications to be used in the most serious patients, who can benefit little and wait for those who could avoid irreversible damage to the liver to be increased. And it is not a side effect - says the UN - but wanted. The high price of treatment - continues the analysis - and the relevant selected access is not attributable to the high costs of research or the high costs of producing the drug. The price is kept high simply because thus remains high profits, which have turned out stratospheric, and the stock market quotations of the company's shares, first monopolistic, and then of the others that have been added further in these years. It's just a speculative matter. [[Senator Airola's comments at the government representative's address.]] I wanted to mention these words because it is important to realize the difficulty faced by all the countries which, as the World Health Organization always says, are threatened - and I quote - by undue political and economic pressure to obtain higher prices for the pharmaceutical industry. Well, what has been done so far in Italy? Unfortunately, even for Italy we can only experience a serious weakness in the regulatory and negotiating capacities put in place in recent years in relation to a phenomenon that has presented itself now for the first time, but that will appear more and more frequently with regard to all other innovative medicines (innovative really or only in part), especially for cancer diseases. On this lack of regulatory and programming capacity, I just want to mention something on which we have discussed for a long time on other occasions. Suffice it to say that we have about 1.5 billion paybacks that we cannot collect from the pharmaceutical industry because of the uncertainty of the available data and the numerous appeals that industry has made and the effects of which may put the health budgets of the regions in serious difficulty. In the face of these difficulties, what did AIFA do? He tried to negotiate and the Ministry tried to produce documents, decrees and circulars, useful to deal with the emergency but not to plan. This is extremely serious, because I remember, and I emphasize it in particular to the representative of the Government, after having emphasized it several times, that the law of stability... AIROLA (M5S). He hasn't listened in hours! PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator Airola, let Senator Dirindin continue. AIROLA (M5S). Yes, but the Undersecretary has to listen to what he's saying! DIRINDIN (Art. 1-MDP). The 2016 law of stability contains a paragraph, which has also been the subject of favorable opinion by the Government, which demanded precisely to intervene with respect to these situations, through a strategic programming that defined all those elements that, to date, to a large extent have not yet been defined. Well that request, formulated by a state law, the Government has not yet implemented. It has implemented only in an episodic way to individual aspects and, above all, has not implemented the most important part of the demand that is transparency of contracts. Still recently, a few weeks ago, the first drug made available on the market was renegotiated. The director of AIFA said that, despite the confidentiality of the results obtained (i.e. we do not know exactly what the cost of drugs is), it is believed to have ripped off the most affordable prices of other countries. What is difficult to believe because, since the interest of the industry is to make the contracts of all countries confidential and secreted, it is difficult to make a comparison and say that the price that we have sprung up is one of the best. So, what is needed and what do these motions ask for? They all call for a strong commitment from the Government to address this issue in a structural, non-emergency, non-episodic and non-weak way towards the enormous strength represented by the pharmaceutical industry. In particular, it is important to bear in mind the need to promote greater competition also with respect to the products we buy. For example, the regions could be allowed to make further price bargaining, but this would require real-time and not retrospective knowledge of the real price of drugs, otherwise on what basis do the regions contract? You could perhaps allow competitions in equivalence, but also for this reason it is necessary that this is put on the agenda by the Italian Drug Agency (AIFA) and that the Agency pronounces itself so that the Regions can proceed. [[Applause from the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and ……]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-822.ana.u47	Senator Aiello is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-822.ana.u48	Mr President, we shall not give up our explanation of vote, so I would like to ask you to add the time available to the Group for that stage to that for the debate.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-822.ana.u49	The Presidency takes note of its resignation and will take it into account in the harmonisation of work.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-822.ana.u50	AELLO (AP-CpE-NCD). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, we have had the opportunity to listen to the illustrations and proposals that have been brought to our attention during the debate and the illustration of the motions presented. We all know how many people are infected almost annually by the hepatitis virus and we also know that there are approximately 160-180 million people in the world suffering from chronic hepatitis; however we also know that among the Western countries ours is the one with the largest number of cases diagnosed (about 350,000, excluding the submerged naturally), with a prevalence of the population increasing from North to South and with the growing age. In addition, over the years hepatitis infection has generated a huge number of chronic carriers due to the high rate of chronicisation. Let us not forget, indeed it is well to remember in this House, that in Italy hepatitis C is the main cause of chronic hepatitis, cirrhosis, cancers, liver transplants and deaths of AIDS patients, of course because they are co-infected. So, among communicable infectious diseases, this disease, this infection is the one that causes the most deaths. The introduction of new therapies has been more effective, so we hope that in the short term the epidemiological scenario of chronic liver diseases can change and evolve positively. One of the main characteristics of this infection is the high rate of chronicization, with the consequent progression of liver damage that, as said, evolves into cirrhosis and especially in carcinoma. It is also necessary to evaluate the so-called submerged, i.e. those who are infected and do not know it. With regard to new infections, today the scenario is drastically and dramatically changed: currently, the main modes of transmission are those nosocomial, from drug addiction, from aesthetic treatments, from tattoos; moreover, even if the infections have decreased, every year the reported cases are about 1,200, a huge amount. Despite all this, the epidemiological picture in Italy regarding chronic hepatitis from virus C is quite little defined: some scholars even define it as nebulous. The only available data are historical and refer to the past. A prevalence study of hepatitis C infection in the various Italian regions in recent years has never been systematically addressed. This, unfortunately, has hindered the work of those who have had to anticipate the expenditure to be allocated to the use of new molecules. To date, the epidemiological trend of acute infections is much better known: in fact these cases are now rare. What does this mean? A very important aspect is that the chronic infection reservoir is not significantly fed by the occurrence of new cases and that an extension of the criteria of fitness to treatment may hesitate, in a limited time range, in the control of the residual reservoir of patients. The therapeutic panorama over time is very favorable for some categories of patients, although there are gaps to be filled for some categories, such as renal deficiencies, or those who have developed resistance mutations towards drugs currently being used. Certainly it will take a big investment in new therapies, but surely over time, in a medium to long period, they will also reduce the social cost of chronic hepatitis, which is currently very high. For these patients having access to therapies means drastically reducing the high risk that the disease may develop into cirrhosis or hepatocarcinoma. The problem of patients who are outside the eligibility criteria, on the other hand, is a matter that needs to be taken into account precisely. It will also be necessary to examine whether a possible cost reduction will lead to an extension of the refundability criteria and, in this case, whether the centres currently authorised for prescription will be able to manage a larger number of patients and therefore whether it will be necessary to expand the centres and increase the number of them, in short, by organising the so-called right centres. Therefore, among the various evaluations, there is no doubt that of the costs of sustainability. Of course, it is true that treatments have high costs in the short term, but much could be saved in the long term, especially by taking into account the economic impact in terms of productivity and quality of life and the costs of residual liver disease. I would like to take a brief step on the issue of quality of life: we have already had the opportunity to support this, forcefully, when we discussed HIV. In the case of hepatitis C infection, too, this is sometimes overlooked in pre-treatment evaluations and is represented precisely by the social implications caused by seropositivity. There are also patients who, after learning that they have been infected, paralyze their lives, deprive themselves of affections, isolate themselves and sometimes refuse help, because they do not accept the situation. Others have problems at work and suffer discrimination of various kinds. For some years now, with the evolution of the concept of health, understood as a state of well-being that goes beyond the absence of the disease and with the affirmation in medicine of the biopsychosocial paradigm, it has been felt the need to deepen the analysis of clinical data, taking into consideration also the subjectivity of patients as an important indicator in order to verify the psychological attitude towards the disease, its motivation and the presence of attitudes that cannot be monitored clinically. In fact, HCV patients complain of a generalised reduction in quality of life. To consider this is very important because, after a certain initial state of unbelief, they live feelings of rejection, anger and hostility, they grow discouragement, anxiety and depression and therefore increasingly worsen the quality of life, they establish relationships of mistrust among the same family members, they renounce affective relationships and different patients live discrimination of all kinds. This must lead those who have the responsibility to organize integrated biopsychosocial approaches, even legally, with the parliamentary contribution, that go beyond the purely classical therapeutic aspect. In addition to this, it should be remembered that guaranteeing equal treatment is a constitutional obligation and a right of all, also in order to put an end to that incomprehensible discrimination of persons who have co-infections and who are excluded from the requirements of priority in access to treatment. Let the new AIFA criteria come along, and let's do whatever it takes to treat them with zero fibrosis. In this sense, it is worth giving credit to the fact that the investment problem arises, both in the 2015-2016 budget and in the 2016-2017 budget, which in fact made the allocation of EUR 500 million permanent. It's all right and we really appreciate the commitment, but, as they say, that's not all. Work must be done to ensure that access to treatment is also guaranteed to those at the early stages of the disease. Action must be taken to organise a serious prevention plan and a plan for evaluating outcomes, to respond to the quality of interventions and, above all, to the safety of care and, not least, to the management of chronicity. This would therefore mean an effective relationship between hospital and territory, often lacking relationship, sometimes non-existent, especially when there are issues of comorbidity to be dealt with or when, as we have mentioned, relational and emotional aspects prevail. It is therefore a matter of organizing and building support and counselling paths and this can only happen through a valid multidisciplinary integration, which can start from above, i.e. from the Ministry, and go down to the regional and departmental level. Only in this way can we create a plan of effective chronicity, which can really be a turning point that finally leads to positive results giving these patients a new life. [[Applause from the AP-CpE-NCD Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-822.ana.u51	Senator Romani Maurizio is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-822.ana.u52	Mr President, having already discussed and described the motion on hepatitis C, of which I am the first signatory, I will now make a slightly broader speech to make clear the importance and how my commitment to the defence of hepatitis C patients was born. We live in an era of transition, with the old world disappearing and the new that is not yet sketched out. An era dominated by disenchanting, after the failure of the utopias of the twentieth century, with the consequent crisis of the institutions, unable to dominate global finance and where emerges what some politicians call post-democracy. In this way, the post truth opens up in the world, in which fears, mistrust, suspicions and latent aggression make the exposition of facts irrelevant and emotional narration and personal conviction prevail. In one word, prejudice. In this extraordinary epoch, medicine, a practice that takes place in a world of values and makes use of multiple sciences, should in itself pass unscathed. However, the crisis underlies two factors that affect the role of the doctor. On the one hand, postmodernity means the breaking of every hierarchical relationship; which calls into question the role of a doctor as a professional manager of health and disease. On the other hand, what we call post truth weakens, on the contrary denies the experts, looked at with mistrust and replaced by the consent of the network. Maintaining the principles that inspire health services can help to overcome an age of crisis and not be overwhelmed. We are the Italy of Values, the Italy that wants all patients with hepatitis to have access to a drug that the Italian institutions can and must offer them, regardless of the severity of the disease and without making preventive selections, which are a nasty thing - not to say worse - in a civilized country. We are the Italy of Values that does not want to give billions to financials disguised by pharmaceutical companies, especially when we have legal means not to do so. We are another Italy of Values, which is tired of hearing words and proclamations that are not followed by facts, ideas that are not followed by actions for their practical application. This is precisely the case that we have been discussing in this motion of ours, in your hands for over a year. We are a Italy of Values that does not forget that there are patients suffering from chronic-degenerative diseases highly disabling, such as Menière's disease and spasmophilia (only to make two examples among many), for which recognition and inclusion in the essential levels of assistance we Senators of Italy of Values are committed. I might add that the money that the state would save with the production of the hepatitis drug could use them to treat both the patients with Menière and those with spasmophilia for free. We are a Italy of Values that would like to see those who traffic in minors, who put at serious risk the high human and ethical value of adoptions, say their own reasons before a judge instead of speaking on television and sending threats to desperate families for the nefariousness suffered. We no longer feel authorized to present a medicine as super parts. Being super partes, as well as ethically unacceptable, is truly impossible. The medicine must courageously take a partisan position, obviously choosing the part of the oppressed. An ethical imperative is required: to open the heart and mind and lend hands to humanitarian medicine. Precisely because we are another Italy of the Values, this Government or whoever represents it at this moment must explain to us point by point what is not going on in our motion; or take the responsibility to reject it without reasons. At that point it will be that part of real Italy, which still believes in these values that we feel deeply ours, that will no longer choose those who have not known or wanted to take this opportunity to defend them. [[Applause from Senator Bencini.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-822.ana.u53	Senator Zuffada is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-822.ana.u54	Mr President, I believe that what has been done by all my fellow senators, who have presented these motions concerning, in particular, hepatitis C, has been very timely. And I believe that the intervention on motions, as other colleagues have done, is an opportunity to be able to enter into the substance of how treatments with the most recent and most expensive medicines are managed lately and to ask ourselves whether it is still worth using and whether it is justified to claim that our health system is a universal one, for which we continue to say that we are among the best in Europe. In the literal sense it is true, but in this field I believe that, unfortunately, there have been some shortcomings; above all, in my opinion, there has been more emergency management than planned with regard to treatment with new drugs. Some doubts have been raised about the management by AIFA of the secreted contract, arising from the close agreements with the pharmaceutical industry which is the guardian of the patent. Above all, there are many clouds about the costs that have been borne by the Italian State for the management of hepatitis C. In fact, since the contract is secreted, it is difficult to understand how it was done. It has been declared that a contract of 750 million euros has been made to treat 50,000 patients out of 435,000 who turn out to be - at least according to the Tor Vergata University of Rome - the Italians chronic carriers of the hepatitis C virus. Well, the fact that you choose 50,000 patients out of 435,000 shows, in my opinion, that there is no universality in the treatment. If you simply treat those who are in an advanced stage of the disease and, to cure those who are at an early stage, expect them to come to the advanced stage, it does not seem to me that a universal principle applies. As has been mentioned, it will be necessary, in the end, to determine the criteria of choice, which, at least, the AIFA has put in place in the update of 8 March 2017, establishing homogeneous and above all rational criteria in the choice of who is to be treated. It is not possible that, in a state that makes a pact with citizens who regularly pay taxes, a sick citizen who demands answers in terms of services, safety and health care must then travel to India or Egypt to buy the same drug at an extremely lower cost. This has been done and repeatedly observed, leading the Minister himself to issue a circular to regularize the phenomenon. It is said that politics has the function of making choices to give decisive answers: well, in the last Economic and Finance Document that you approved in this House, with regard to the resources placed in the field of health, we have noticed (which I repeated during the discussion on the DEF) that, instead of increasing the resources available to give certain answers to ensure a universal system, in fact the percentage of appropriations to health for the years ahead is reduced. So it is not true that we are trying to improve the service and it is not true that rational choices have been made and above all in the interest of the national health system: on the contrary, there has been a reduction, placing Italy in relation to the other European countries in a lower percentage of GDP. That means the government hasn't made any choices, but it's a bit of a boat. That is what emerges from all the indications contained in the motions and I hope that the Undersecretary, when expressing his opinion, in the face of the requests - in this case I am referring to those provided for in the motions of Forza Italia - does not, as is usual, use the expression 'in the limits of budgetary constraints', because it would really be a catch for the backdrops for the many sick of hepatitis C at national level. [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII and Senator Liuzzi]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-822.ana.u55	Senator Padua is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-822.ana.u56	Mr President, the objective of the motions on which I am speaking, namely the motion on incontinence and on stomachs, which are also on the agenda, as we know, is to promote functional interventions to ensure a better quality of life for incontinent and stomized people, in order to make the stages of prevention, treatment and rehabilitation related to these diseases more efficient and effective. There is no doubt that both the stomached and the incontinent, the disease represents a particularly complex moment of crisis, a condition in which the psychophysical balance is altered and the quality of life is changed significantly. The most complex change is that linked to the perception of one's identity and body image, to having to learn techniques and strategies to face, autonomously, one's own life. There is an inevitable alteration of self-perception, overloaded in the case of stomies by the need to process the loss suffered and the fear of having to face embarrassing and uncontrollable situations. All this causes, very often, a dizzying fall in self-esteem and repercussions on the sexual sphere. For these reasons, targeted operations must be promoted with the aim of developing more appropriate intervention mechanisms to ensure appropriate care and assistance both qualitatively and quantitatively, so that the actions put in place to help those affected by these diseases are characterized by the principles of efficiency and effectiveness, territorial homogeneity and free accessibility within the whole national territory. In this sense, the establishment of a national register of stumbled and incontinent subjects, as requested in our motion, is crucial. Territorial homogeneity is particularly important because it falls within the regional competence, among others, the provision of prostheses and technical aids indicated in the new tariff nomenclature. However, often, there are difficulties and operational problems in the management and distribution of medical devices and prosthetic aids. In particular, these are the choices that patients should make about what they consider best suited to their needs. In this context - I would like to point out - the need for rationalization of expenditure and the centralisation of purchases cannot, by eliminating it, invest in the need for targeted and differentiated interventions according to the personal needs of patients, without standardisation or unification of any kind, as emerged in the Health Commission during the debate on the reform of the essential levels of care. It is good to recall also, in this context, the resolution n. 520 of 2013 of the Guarantor for the privacy, which has dictated a specific discipline for the delivery operations of the sanitary facilities. On the basis of the information provided to the health care companies, the aids must be delivered to the place identified by the person concerned at the times chosen and preferably in his hands; to third parties, on the other hand, only if consent has been given. Moreover, the garrison cannot be left unattended in the vicinity of the indicated place and must be packed in a non-transparent container, which must not contain in the outside the indication of the contents; this, to protect confidentiality. Among the other objectives to be pursued, then, it is essential to emphasize the need to ensure adequate and effective social and health care interventions also at work or school, because of the peculiarities to which the individuals stomized or incontinent are exposed. The increase in embarrassment in living one's own pathology within social contexts in which the relational aspects can be particularly frustrated reveals even more the need to intervene in this sense. Finally, it is more appropriate to work towards improving specialised medical and nursing care, with adequate skills and closely related to the treatment of these diseases, as it is very important to intervene in a targeted way both medically and psychologically-emotionalally.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-822.ana.u57	The debate is closed. I have the right to speak to the representative of the Government, and I would also ask him to give his opinion on the motions that have been tabled.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-822.ana.u58	Mr President, I shall make a few brief comments on the motions on the two subjects. The issues relating to incontinent and stomized patients have long been in the attention of the Government: the decree of the President of the Council of Ministers of 12 January 2017 containing "Defining and updating the essential levels of care" has introduced new medical devices, specifying their characteristics, to guarantee their quality. In view of these forecasts, which are explicitly intended to protect the health of people with incontinence, together with those who guarantee that all persons with care will benefit from home care when there has been a condition of non-self-sufficiency, which prevents the person from going to health care facilities, it is considered that at the level of general national planning the effort required by the motions under consideration has been duly carried out. As regards the adoption of organizational arrangements which in practice guarantee the homogeneity and quality of assistance in the national territory, reference should be made to the determinations of the Regions and the Autonomous Provinces, to which this competence is constitutionally assigned. In this respect, it is only clear that a working group has been set up at the Ministry of Health to verify the structure of the national classification of medical devices in relation to the specific type of products. In this case, the market is represented by a classification of products that can be easily used by users and prescribers of the National Health Service. In addition, the verification of the appropriateness of the care is carried out also through the analysis of the consumption, thus putting in place policies and logics of government of the expenditure through conscious and transparent purchasing processes. I would also like to remind you that with the Ministerial Decree of 2 October 2015 the working group on problems related to urinary and faecal incontinence was set up at the Ministry of Health for the implementation of guidelines on assistance to people suffering from these clinical conditions. With regard to the motions for resolutions on the first three commitments, on No 605 (text 2), submitted by Senator D'Ambrosio Lettieri and other senators, I welcome the opinion, while on the fourth the opinion is in favour, provided that it is followed by the formula "taking account of available resources and budgetary constraints", on the fifth and sixth commitments I express a favourable opinion, while on the seventh and eighth the opinion is in favour, provided that they are reworded in the diction: "to assess the desirability of", on the ninth commitment the opinion is in favour, provided that it is reworded as follows: "having regard to the available resources and budgetary constraints, to assess the desirability of", on the tenth the opinion is in favour, while on the eleventh the opinion is in favour, provided that it is reworded as follows: "to assess the desirability of". As regards Senator Guerra and others' motion No 614, I welcome the first commitment; I welcome the second commitment provided that it is preceded by the formula: "to assess whether it is appropriate"; I welcome the third commitment; I welcome the fourth commitment provided that it is preceded by the formula: "having regard to available resources and budgetary constraints". With regard to the opinions on the motions on hepatitis C, the Ministry of Health has acted, especially in recent years, in full awareness of the gravity and complexity of the situation generated by the spread in our country of a virus that affects hundreds of thousands of people in a state of infection. This is an incontrovertible fact that brings us back to the need to take extraordinary measures as well, because there is a strong belief that we are facing a real health and social scourge. Among these measures I would like to mention first of all the establishment, with the 2015 Stability Act, of an experimental fund with a financial allocation of EUR 500 million for each of the years 2015 and 2016, which allowed the regions to buy the first innovative drugs that are able to eradicate hepatitis C, or to heal the people who are affected by it. The positive results of this biennial trial, which has allowed us to treat those for whom the disease was already in an acute phase, are the basis of the forecast included in the 2017 Budget Law and the establishment of a fund for the purchase of innovative medicines with an annual budget of EUR 500 million, aimed at allowing the widest possible access to these medicines. In the same direction, the Italian Agency of the drug is also moving, which is about to activate the new monitoring registers for hepatitis C drugs on the basis of the new and much larger access centres provided for in the new plan for the eradication of HCV infection. A plan whose implementation will allow the treatment of approximately 80,000 patients with hepatitis C each year and which, thanks to the increase in the number of centres authorised for the administration of new antiviral medicines, will contribute to the progressive reduction of the incidence of the infection, with the aim of achieving in a few years a complete eradication of the disease. The plan, acting on criteria for access to new antiviral medicines, will therefore allow in the medium and long term the inclusion of treatments of all infected subjects and, therefore, over time, the substantial eradication of the infection. In a first phase, it will also be possible to provide for additional access as well as for those already covered by the current criteria, including for all patients with levels of F2 fibrosis and for all cases of comorbidity. So much is said in relation to the general objectives that the Ministry of Health is already pursuing and that will allow to achieve lasting results in the coming years and with reference, in particular, to certain commitments contained in the motions that are being discussed today, about which clarification has been requested by the Government. As regards the opinions on the individual motions, with reference to Senator Maurizio Romani's motion No 603, and others, the following rewordings give a favourable opinion on the first commitment: • to assess the existence of the conditions for exercising the compulsory licence provided for in Articles 30 and 31 of the TRIPS international agreements and governed by Regulation (EC) No 816 of 2006 • to give a favourable opinion on the second commitment with the following rewording: • to assess the existence of the conditions for initiating the trial, with a view to introducing also in Italy (...) • to give an opinion against the third commitment. With regard to Senator Mandelli's and others' motion No 774, we welcome the first, second and third commitments. With regard to Senator Gaetti's motion No 776 and others, a favourable opinion is expressed on the first undertaking, with the following rewording: "to assess the existence of the conditions for exercising the compulsory licence provided for in Articles 30 and 31 of the TRIPS international agreements and governed by Regulation (EC) No 816 of 2006", and to give a favourable opinion on the second, third and fourth commitments. With regard to Senator Council's and others' motion No 777, a favourable opinion is expressed on the first, second and third commitments. As regards Senator Barani's motion No 779 and others, a favourable opinion is expressed on the first, the second, the third and the fourth commitments; a favourable opinion is expressed on the fifth commitment with the rewording: "to assess the desirability of" the proposal; a favourable opinion is expressed on the sixth commitment with the rewording: "to assess the appropriateness of" the proposal. With regard to Senator D'Ambrosio Lettieri's Amendment No 780 and others, a favourable opinion is expressed on the first commitment with the adoption of the following wording: "within the limits of budgetary constraints, to assess the appropriateness of """; the opinion is in favour of the second and third commitments; a favourable opinion is expressed on the fourth commitment with the adoption of the formula: "to assess the appropriateness of ""; a favourable opinion is expressed on the fifth commitment; a favourable opinion is expressed on the sixth commitment with the adoption of the formula: "to assess the appropriateness of ""; a favourable opinion is expressed on the seventh and eighth commitment. With reference to motion 781, at the first signature of Senator De Biasi, the opinion supports commitments 1 to 6. As regards commitment 7, the opinion supports the following rewording: "to assess the existence of the conditions for exercising the compulsory licence provided for in Articles 30 and 31 of the TRIPS international agreements and governed by Regulation (EC) No 816/2006." Finally, the opinion was in favour of commitment 8.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-822.ana.u59	Colleagues, I would like to remind you that the sitting is scheduled for 1 p.m., because there are important meetings of the Commission which have already been convened at the same time. If we wanted to, we could conclude the discussion of this item on the agenda, since opinions were either in favour or in favour with rewording except on a point of a motion and since many senators have already spoken in the general debate, should colleagues give up the explanation of vote. In this way, we could proceed to the vote. I see a general point of agreement and I do not register disagreements. I would remind you that the opinions were all in favour, with proposals for rewording which I imagine are accepted, also in the light of the speeches made, with the exception of point 3 of motion No 603, on which the opinion was opposed. Senator Maurizio Romani, does he accept the proposals for reformulation made by the Government with regard to the commitments 1 and 2 of motion 603 (text 2)? I remind you that the representative of the Government has expressed an opposite opinion on commitment 3.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-822.ana.u60	Mr President, I agree with the contrary view expressed with regard to commitment 3, which is why I come from the text of the motion. However, it seems absurd to me that, after a year of tabling this motion, we still have to assess the existence of the conditions for exercising the right to compulsory licences, which are there. I accept the proposal for reformulation made by the representative of the Government, but I will ask the Court of Auditors if there is the basis for making a request for erarial damage with reference to the time that the Ministry has allowed to pass before assessing the existence of the assumptions. [[Applause from the Mixed Groups and Art.1-MDP]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-822.ana.u61	Yes, Senator Maurizio Romani, but I am obliged to ask if you accept the proposal for reformulation.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-822.ana.u62	ROMANI Maurizio (Misto-Idv). Yeah, I'll take it.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-822.ana.u63	In view of the publication of commitment 3 and the reluctant adoption of the proposals for the rewording of points 1 and 2, the opinion was therefore favourable. We shall now proceed to the vote on motion No 603 (text 3). MARTELLI (M5S). We call for the vote to be taken by simultaneous ballot by electronic means. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I refer to the nominal vote by simultaneous ballot of motion No 603 (text 3), tabled by Senator Romani Maurizio and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the vote on motion No 774. MARTELLI (M5S). We call for the vote to be taken by simultaneous ballot by electronic means. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of motion No 774, tabled by Senator Mandelli and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). Since the Government's proposal for rewording has been accepted, we shall proceed to the vote on motion No 776 (text 2). MARTELLI (M5S). We call for the vote to be taken by simultaneous ballot by electronic means. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of motion No 776 (text 2), tabled by Senator Gaetti and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the vote on motion No 777. MARTELLI (M5S). We call for the vote to be taken by simultaneous ballot by electronic means. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of motion No 777, tabled by Senator Council and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the vote on motion No 779, on which there is a proposal for a rewording of the commitment in points 3, 5 and 9. Are you welcome, Senator Barani? Mr Barani (ALA-SCLP). Yes, I accept the proposal for reformulation. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. We shall now proceed to the vote on motion No 779 (text 2). MARTELLI (M5S). We call for the vote to be taken by simultaneous ballot by electronic means. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of motion No 779 (text 2), tabled by Senator Barani and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the vote on motion No 780, on which there is a proposal for a rewording of the commitment in points 1, 4 and 6. Do you welcome you, Senator D'Ambrosio Lettieri? D'Ambrosio Lettieri (GAL (GS, PPI, M, Id, E-E, MPL, RI)). Yes, I accept the proposal for reformulation. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. We shall now proceed to the vote on motion No 780 (text 2). MARTELLI (M5S). We call for the vote to be taken by simultaneous ballot by electronic means. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of motion No 780 (text 2), tabled by Senator D'Ambrosio Lettieri and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the vote on motion No 781, on which there is a proposal for rewording the commitment to point 7. Are you welcome, Senator De Biasi? DE BIASI (PD). Yes, I accept the proposal for reformulation. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. We shall now proceed to the vote on motion No 781 (text 2). MARTELLI (M5S). We call for the vote to be taken by simultaneous ballot by electronic means. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of motion No 781 (text 2), tabled by Senator De Biasi and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the vote on motion No 605 (text 2), on which there is a proposal for a rewording of the commitment in points 4, 7, 8, 9 and 11. Do you welcome you, Senator D'Ambrosio Lettieri? D'Ambrosio Lettieri (GAL (GS, PPI, M, Id, E-E, MPL, RI)). Yes, I accept the proposal for reformulation. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. We shall now proceed to the vote on motion No 605 (text 3). MARTELLI (M5S). We call for the vote to be taken by simultaneous ballot by electronic means. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of motion No 605 (text 3), tabled by Senator D'Ambrosio Lettieri and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the vote on motion No 614, on which there is a proposal for a rewording of the commitment in points 2 and 4. Do you welcome you, Senator War? WAR (Art. 1-MDP). Yes, I accept the proposal for reformulation. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. We shall now proceed to the vote on motion No 614 (text 2). MARTELLI (M5S). We call for the vote to be taken by simultaneous ballot by electronic means. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I refer to the nominal vote by simultaneous ballot of motion 614 (text 2), tabled by Senator Guerra and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B).
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-822.ana.u64	The motions, questions and questions received by the Presidency will be published in Annex B to today's report. I remember that the Senate will return to meet in public today, at 4.30 p.m., with the agenda already printed and distributed. The session is adjourned. (at 12.58).
