ParlaMint-IT_2017-11-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-911.ana.u1	The sitting is open (9.32 a.m.). The Minutes shall be read. Mr Volpoli, Secretary, gave a reading of the Minutes of the sitting of 16 November. PRESIDENT. - The debate is Since there were no comments, the Minutes were approved.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-11-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-911.ana.u2	The list of senators on leave and absent on assignment received from the Senate, as well as further communications to the Assembly, will be published in Annex B to today's Minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-11-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-911.ana.u3	I would warn you that qualified votes can be taken in the course of today's sitting by electronic means. Therefore, from this moment on, the period of 20 minutes from the notice provided for in Article 119 (1) of the Regulation (9:36 a.m.).
ParlaMint-IT_2017-11-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-911.ana.u4	The next item is the debate on draft law No 2960. The rapporteurs, Senators Zanoni and Gualdani, have requested permission to carry out the oral report. No comments were made and the request was accepted. I therefore call the rapporteur, Senator Zanoni.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-11-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-911.ana.u5	Madam President, it is indeed a pleasure to be here in this House to report on the budget law, an important budget law being the last of this parliamentary term; an important law because it comes to the end of a difficult period, which began with... [[Brusio]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-11-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-911.ana.u6	Colleagues, it is the introduction to an important debate. I would ask you to lower your voice so that the rapporteur can speak and be heard.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-11-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-911.ana.u7	ZANONI, rapporteur. It is a budget law that arrives at the end of a legislature, and I invite everyone to remember what our country was like three or four years ago. The measure before us now allows us not only to discuss the important measures contained in it, but above all to make an overall assessment of the economic and public finance policies of the last five years and the legacy - in our view positive - that we leave to the next government. Today our country is in a state of public finances in order, which will continue in the coming years, and with an economy in sharp recovery. In short, we are in a position to finally look to the future with greater confidence and awareness of being able to further improve our fundamentals. The picture is completely different from that we inherited at the beginning of the parliamentary term, which has seen us hard engaged over the years to reverse the situation in a positive way. The economic and public finance framework at the beginning of the legislature reflected elements of uncertainty. Compared to a 2.8% decrease in GDP in 2012, we see today a situation with a GDP growth of even more than one percent. In this context, the maneuver in our examination wanted to look with confidence at development and growth, even if it continues to burden the open question of VAT and, therefore, the sterilization of the so-called safeguard clauses. In this context, while committing only 15 million to maneuvering, it was not conceivable to allow the raising of VAT, which would surely have killed the few elements of recovery and the clear signs present. The maneuver pays attention to growth and development. Incentives are given for the business world to recover. Incentives are given to help young people enter the world of work. Measures are planned starting from early childhood to enter the world of work. The Senate's work was important and strategic. We have taken in hand a budget law already good and used all possible spaces to insert structural measures relevant to the country. We used the Senate's maneuvering space to complete the intervention on the baby bonus. We used it for 60 million to reduce the impact of the so-called superticket. We used it for 20 million for caregiver measures. We used it to help orphans of feminicides. And for this reason we were pleased to have been able to announce on 25 November, which is International Day for the Elimination of Violence against Women, the provision of an appropriation for a fund that deals with an issue that - alas - we still have to deal with every day. The Senate is busy almost every week remembering the names of the women killed. We then accepted in our budget the result of the negotiation with the National Association of Italian Municipalities (ANCI). The municipalities are the closest institutional level to the citizens and the measures taken are important because they put the municipalities in a position, after so many years, to make the budget by the end of the year or, at most, by the beginning of next year. I now come back to the elements of politics and economics and finance. Over the last four years, the economic and financial policy implemented by the Government has had to proceed within a narrow path - to use an expression so often taken up by Minister Padoan - often agreed with the European Union, whose borders are compressed - on the one hand - by the effects of an unprecedented economic crisis in recent history and - on the other hand - by the need to reduce the deficit and public debt. The measure - as already mentioned - focuses priority actions on some guidelines: firstly, measures aimed at implementing safeguard clauses on VAT and excise duties, which Cuban for as many as 15 billion; the reforms and various policies approved in recent years have further reduced the difference between Italy and the EU average and have restored credibility to our country. And the draft budget for our review is part of this with the aim of continuing to increase the growth potential of the national economy, employment and the innovative and competitive capacities of enterprises. The next government will therefore have the task of not dispersing the results achieved and of continuing the path outlined in this legislature. There are many measures taken in the fields of agriculture, school and university. I think we can safely think of a budget law aimed at development and growth. Now the measurements are all there. The signs of growth are present and it is up to us to ensure that we continue along this path. I would ask you to hand over the written text of my speech, so that it can be annexed to the Minutes of today's sitting. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. The Presidency authorizes it to do so. ZANONI, rapporteur. I conclude, therefore, by giving thanks not ritual, but heard, to all those who in the last days have worked a lot. I thank the offices, who had already committed themselves to a law as important as that of conversion of the tax decree, and who have strongly engaged with us still day and night, in the examination of this provision. I thank all the staff. I thank, of course, Deputy Minister Morando, who has always shared with us the path taken. I thank the other rapporteur who has worked hard with me and with whom I have shared battles. I thank all the group leaders and in particular Giorgio Santini, who is here next to me now as it has been for the whole period of work. I thank, then, especially the many senators who, with their amendments, have made us discuss them extensively these days and have made us think about what is best for our country, even in the diversity of positions. There has been a lot of work together, even with oppositions, in a constructive overall climate, so much so that many of the synthetic amendments that we have produced as rapporteurs have been unanimously adopted. And this is because many topics were heard by all the Groups and, therefore, the synthesis tried to take into account all the needs and differences. I believe that this is a good signal for our country, to which we must look with confidence and for which to implement all the best policies we are capable of. [[Applause from the PD Group and Senator Bencini]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-11-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-911.ana.u8	I call the rapporteur, Senator Gualdani.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-11-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-911.ana.u9	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, the examination of the draft budget bill for 2018 was completed last night in the 5th Commission. The work has been carried out in a climate of good collaboration, all aware (majority and minority in the Senate, as well as the Government) of the repercussions of our choices and decisions that we are making. After weeks of intense work we arrive in the Senate Chamber with the last budget law of an extremely delicate legislature, due to the particular economic and political conditions of our country, in a national and international scenario in constant and continuous change. The fiscal maneuver for the year 2018 is developed in a framework of economic recovery and employment. Clearly, not all macroeconomic data and numerical estimates are positive, but the constant feature of government and majority action in Parliament was to put in place effective actions aimed at improving our country's policy. Therefore, on the day that ISTAT certifies the collapse - alas - of births in our country, the baby bonus becomes a structural measure. I would like to stress that the Budget Commission has unanimously voted on this amendment, demonstrating that the family and support for parenthood are at the heart of the attention of the Members of this House on all sides. We are all clearly aware of the limited resources available for the next three years and in particular for next year. However, this will certainly not undermine the commitment to extend the measures adopted in relation to the family. The adjustment of the income thresholds for deductions for dependent children seems to be a significant necessity and we hope that this increase can be introduced into the House. My colleague spoke on a number of issues just now. I would like to stress that great efforts have been made in the fields of pensions, the family, health care, and I also remember, not least, the field of sport, which is a very important area. In fact, the possibility of wishing to create lucrative societies in the sports field has been envisaged, thus allowing the creation of small companies. I am beginning to conclude, although there are many issues to be highlighted, thanking, as a Member of Parliament and as a Leader in the Budget Commission, all of the Commission's colleagues, of majority and minority, also for the sense of responsibility that has seen us carry out together, over the last five years, major interventions and targeted actions. I also strongly thank the Offices, finding their high sense of duty and preparation. Not least, I would like to thank the President of the Budget Commission, who has come to this House at the moment; the members of the Government, who have led us in a continuous and exemplary way to the Commission, and my co-rapporteur. I hope that the alliance that has been established over the past five years has produced really important measures for the country. I would therefore like to thank all Members of this House, and I am honoured to have been part of this team, together with my co-rapporteur. [[Applause from the PD Group and Senators Bencini and Dalla Tor.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-11-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-911.ana.u10	I declare the general discussion open. Senator Amidei is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-11-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-911.ana.u11	Madam President, I believe that with the draft budget law we have reached the limits of decency: the bill includes everything, except what may be relevant to the meaning of the law itself, and it contains within it a series of favours against common sense and logic, which the citizens would like to see applied. This measure has entered everything and more, shamefully, and it is right to say so to Italian citizens. I am referring first of all to a very serious matter, namely the amendment signed by Senator Santini, which I see now on the telephone, with which at some point the prediction that regasifiers are regarded as productive buildings and factories is deleted, just because they are located at sea, although they are planted. In this way, the payment of hundreds of millions of euros to multinationals, which should have gone to municipalities, and thus to citizens, is subscribed. It is unacceptable, as was the lack of recognition, for which I have fought, of excise duty on offshore installations and regasifiers: even in that case the rule has been removed, to the detriment of citizens. You must therefore know that the government is interested not in the citizens, but in the few. We are then faced with a shameful situation, with regard to the world of school: I am referring to teachers who, for ten or twenty years - or perhaps more - have been working as precarious, with annual assignments, for whom they have not had the right to switch to permanent contracts. Teachers from private conservatives have been appointed - not within the scope of the individual curriculum - and this is a measure which must be denounced and which I consider unacceptable. I am proceeding quickly, because unfortunately there is very little time at my disposal. We have seen another amendment: there has been an amendment to Law No 394 of 1991 on parks, indicating as an inter-regional park the Po Delta Park, when at some point, in inter-regionality, the will and opinion of local authorities, mayors, administrators, trade associations in the world of agriculture and fisheries and how many others would have been entitled - and indeed have a title - to express an opinion. The government has largely screwed over the opinions of the people on the ground, but this will surely be remembered by the citizens when it is time to go to the vote. This is also unacceptable and I hope that the House will take account of the injustice perpetrated against AFAM teachers who are once again excluded, because of what would have been a ridiculous cost to the state's coffers - because it has to be said that the costs of a measure that would have been truly derisory are also assessed. This is also a fault that the government will have to feel on itself. Then we talk about the world of agriculture, the primary sector, the one that feeds us. Even if we are all ready to tell a different version here and even if each of us one day, after the election, he may have to return to his work, there is one thing that we will all continue to do every day, and it is to sit down at the table - even if we do not sit down at the table - and eat. And our future, like it or not, depends on what we eat and how we eat, but especially on what we eat. The world of agriculture is a primary sector and must be defended. I cannot accept the rejection of an amendment calling for an increase in age in order to gain access to facilitation and contributory relief for young farmers and to remain at 40 when this government is constantly raising the retirement age. If you raise your retirement age, you must also have the consistency to consider young a person a little longer than you normally do, but it is too convenient. Obviously we must try to make miserable savings for the benefit of a few and not of those who really need to work, create business and believe in this sector, so that what about the Made in Italy that many people fill their mouths with. I am a member of the Committee on Agriculture and many times I have heard of Made in Italy as if it were a status. It is not a status: that of the farmer is a life of sacrifice. That of the farmer is a figure that preserves the environment and must be protected, just as young farmers must be protected. I therefore ask that account be taken of the possibility of raising the age for access to the facilities from forty to forty-five years, considering a farmer at that age who is still young, because by now we will retire - perhaps, if we get there - to seventy years. Let us stop with this wrong way of considering agriculture, an area for which I think very little has been done. We have been talking for a long time about the severe crisis in the cereals, fruit and vegetables and sugar sectors, but nothing has been done about the serious situations that have been affecting the world of agriculture for too many years now. I would like to focus on these points, and for obvious reasons of time I cannot represent the difficulties that the whole sector, of which I have been particularly concerned, is bearing. In my brief speech, I urge you to become aware of the fact that agriculture is a sector that affects everyone. We must be competitive in order to be able to value what is so much praised as made in Italy. We must put in place all the necessary rules to safeguard our products and their quality, first and foremost for consumers, but also to guarantee those who produce them, and I remember that the Italian farmer always adheres to them correctly, unlike others who do not respect them, protocols and specifications (and we see it with products coming to Italy from abroad). And it was also done - let's say so - to try to make sure that the place of production was identified with the place of packaging or the production plant, so defined in a slightly clumsy jargon. We must ensure that those who produce it through labelling show the place of production and the history of the product, which means representing the professionalism of those who produce it. Well, the draft budget law before us has lost a great opportunity for the agriculture sector. But he also missed the great opportunity to give a strong signal about the attitude of politicians and the government towards citizens. Today, with the rule, which I consider truly absurd, contained in Senator Santini's amendment, it has been established that the regasifiers will not be subject to the IMU: a huge damage to the municipalities and to all citizens. That is why, Madam President, Mr Vice-Minister, ladies and gentlemen, I hope this is the last time we have had to witness the action of a government that has misruled us over the years. I hope that the citizens will soon be given a voice and that once and for all the citizens will have a voice: certainly not with an electoral law - as I have already said - unjust and wrong, with which the citizens do not once again express their preference, which is the only democratic system, as is the case in the European and regional elections. Once again we see candidates chosen by the parties and not by the citizens. Therefore, I am absolutely opposed to this budget law which creates damage, and not an advantage, to the Italian people. [[Applause from Senator Bertacco.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-11-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-911.ana.u12	He's enlisted to speak Senator Lucidi. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-11-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-911.ana.u13	Madam President, members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen, the last budgetary manoeuvre of this parliamentary term was born in a strange way. This legislature was born, in fact, with the idea that we should not vote for one because - if you remember - we entered Parliament, it was said that we should go to the elections even in May 2013. And instead, we are still here to tell us about the fifth budget law. And I say this not only because this is the last maneuver of the legislature, but also because - as it happens - there is no conjecture behind it - just before the general elections. Such a coincidence finds another correspondent in the macroeconomic-political cycle, i.e. the possibility of maneuvering accounts and actions by governments and the majority to ensure that, in the wake of the elections, everything seems to be going very well. It's kind of what we've been seeing in the last few days. We see that there is no more timid recovery of GDP and, everyone is satisfied; we have the 80 euros and a whole series of manoeuvres that are accompanying us in a serene way towards the next elections. Of course it is not, because we know that this is simply a cycle that you are operating. In two months we'll find out what the truth is. I shall divide my speech into two parts: the first is on the method used for this budget law, but also on other occasions; the second part will deal with a subject which is dear to me and on which I have already spoken. First of all, I would like to talk about the way in which this budgetary session took place, which I believe - and I do not think I am going beyond my right of criticism - has taken place in a violent and repressive manner. And I use these terms because it is hallucinating that a fundamental issue, probably the fundamental law of our political year, is being discussed in such a way. We have had meetings of the Budget Commission which lasted until morning, in extreme working conditions, and this only determines one fact: on the one hand, those who have a good vision could say that their members work a lot, but on the other hand, we must put all people in a position to be able to work easily. But there is also the possibility of being able to interface with offices and to talk and confront people who are outside these buildings. Compressing the entire debate on the draft budget law in a few hours, most of which are concentrated in night sessions, in adverse conditions to most, is a violent maneuver that is done at the democratic level and in political debate. Why do I say that? This determines the following condition. A legitimate amendment is tabled, and - as our rapporteurs and the government have said - it is acceptable, but there is no time to discuss it. For us this is the fifth budget law, while for some of you it is probably the 50th. Perhaps, over time, we could have learned to improve the discussion procedures and diluted them over time. The reason is very simple. I find it unacceptable that the answer given to the tabling of an acceptable amendment is that there is no time to discuss it. If this amendment concerns an important issue - like all the 3,000 amendments tabled - then I wonder what the ratio of such a procedure is. What I am saying is not secondary, because it happens not only in Parliament (in the Senate or in the Chamber of Deputies), but also in all the municipal and regional councils of our country. The methodology of not putting the institutions and all the citizens - I repeat that for the 5 Star Movement there is only one type of political man, who is the citizen - in the condition of carrying out the political debate is - in my opinion - a serious damage done to our country and our Republic. A few days ago in Umbria, in the City Council of Spoleto, a controversy arose because one of our city councilors was accused of being little present at the work and was forced to justify herself. Guess what's the reason: at that time she was becoming a mom and, fortunately, she became a mom and she continued to be a mom. The justification for those absences, therefore, was there. But the problem is not so much that it is absent and unable to participate in the work: no one has raised the question of saying that we must put everyone in a position to exercise the fundamental right that is to carry out a political debate. This - in my opinion - is the serious deficiency in this House, in the parliamentary committees and - I repeat - also in the municipal councils. We must address the issue of how to put all citizens, regardless of their needs, in the condition that we can have a political debate within the buildings, without forcing and compressing the debate in a repressive way. I now come to the subject, and I would like to focus on some of the speeches I have made on the draft budget law together with my colleagues, the result of the work we have carried out over time. In particular, I have followed in a very constant way an amendment on social hospitality. I remember, unfortunately, that Central Italy was hit by earthquakes in August and October 2016 and we all know that tax breaks have been granted, which have access requirements. In other words, a number of parameters have been established so that an economic entity - whether a private individual, an economic activity or an undertaking - can have access to those facilities. What happened? A turnover loss threshold of around 25 per cent is established. Amendment 2.28 simply called for the 25% threshold to be considered net of the revenue allocated to what is defined in the conventions between regions, local authorities and civil protection, social hospitality. What does that mean? That many accommodation activities have hosted unfortunately displaced citizens due to the earthquake and civil protection service operators. This contribution, sometimes small, sometimes important, but still made at cost prices, has led to a breach of the threshold. I believe that accepting this amendment would have been a very important gesture. Unfortunately, the government has done some checks in the time we have been given, but it was not possible to accept it, so I turned it into an agenda. That is why I say that it would have been very important - and I close the circle of my initial speech - this time, but also many other times, to have the opportunity to dilute our work more effectively. One thing, in fact, is to discuss a fundamental law for the state at 10 a.m. or 4 p.m., one thing is to do it at 5 a.m., not necessarily we would have been more efficient, but maybe we would have used other ways. [[Applause from the M5S Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-11-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-911.ana.u14	He's enlisted to speak Senator Caliendo. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-11-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-911.ana.u15	Madam President, I speak not so much to criticize this budget law, which is neither more nor less a series of small speeches dictated by the imminence of the electoral moment. These are small tips, but also interventions that affect the same functionality of our country's system. I am therefore speaking on a matter of merit and method, not deceiving myself of the possibility of correction, although, Mr Vice-Minister, I believe that we all have the responsibility to ensure that the democratic process of legislation takes place according to certain rules. I confess to you that I had a lot of confidence that you were the one who followed the budget law, along with President Tonini. Article 80, which was approved and included in the budget law, does not understand what ratio it responds to; let us try to identify some of them. Perhaps the government, regretted having brought to 70 years the age of the pension of the magistrates, thought to give a condolence, not worrying to solve the problem of the tax section of the Court of Cassation. You have all heard in this House that the tax section of the Court of Cassation is burdened not only by a huge backwardness, but also by an influx of appeals every year that are equal to a third of the total amount of appeals that come to the Court of Cassation. Well, after a long debate in university discussions, in conferences, with associations, which lasted almost two years, an amendment was made, which meant: we establish by law the tax section at the Court of Cassation and allow it to operate with a suitable number of magistrates. All this was identical to what was done for the work section. I am not so worried - even if it has not been understood why - about the rejection of an amendment that I had previously tabled, both in the tax decree and in the budget law. On the other hand, I am concerned, Mr Vice-Minister, that the Commission has unanimously stressed the unconstitutional nature of the rule that is about to be adopted. Why are there profiles of unconstitutionality? Our Constitution provides for the possibility of appointing honorary magistrates for the function of individual judges. What do we approve of with this rule? The honorary magistrates will even compose the judging colleges of the highest judicial summit in our country, the Court of Cassation. As we probably did not know why, we have heard a number of reasons for this: "You cannot do what the Commission has said, because the tax section already exists and you can think that this would become a duplication" (and note that we are not talking about my amendment, but about one formulated by the whole Commission unanimously). Probably this ignorance is determined by the fact that it is not known that the current tax section was established by the first President of the Court of Cassation, and that, being a table measure, it cannot determine that number of magistrates that only that change could have guaranteed in the number of 45. This would have meant the serious possibility of returning to the normal time of decision of the Court of Cassation, which would then have restored that system of normal flow of proceedings to itself which, if decided in time, determine its proper function as nomophilachia. If, as is happening, the delays in decisions were years, many times - I do not have to teach you, since we are discussing changes in tax rules almost every year - the rules to be applied in the process are no longer in force and therefore the function of nomophilachia is lost. But there is another aspect on which I have tried to reason. In the face of the fact that the Justice Commission was doubtful about constitutionality in relation to the rule contained in the draft law, it was replied that the Ministry of Justice was against it. Again, I would like it to be clear once and for all that I do not believe that the Minister of Justice was against it and I do not say so for a reason of knowledge: in fact, the Minister, in this House, during a question time, just a few months ago, urged to consider that hypothesis of modification of the tax section, which provided for the institution by law, said that he fully shares my reflection and that he was willing to include it immediately in the reform of the civil process. This has not been done, because the reform of the civil process has not been completed. But there is more: Senator Moscardelli and myself had tabled the same amendments to the reform of the tax process. We have also had consensus in that place and today we come to say that we cannot touch something that has been done, we do not understand why. Do you realize that for three years the retired magistrates are used and that they should solve the problems? How are retired magistrates used? Nominating them as honorary magistrates. Do you realize that? Is there a rule in the Constitution and is there an attempt to make it up to you to have introduced pension limits at the age of seventy then, in small respects that may affect some people, do you not take the opportunity to make a definitive reform that could allow the functioning of the system? Mr Vice-Minister, I believe that Parliament's work cannot be reduced to bargaining determined by those who have the most influence to obtain a certain rule or article. The basic problem is that we must realise that when we ask the opinion of a technical Commission of this Parliament, we must then have the strength, the possibility, the legal and political duty to respond in Parliament and to explain the reasons that lead to a departure from an opinion given unanimously which raises on the one hand doubts of constitutionality and on the other hand of the functionality of the system, suggesting that we adopt a certain amendment. I know that you will not reply, because there is no possibility of giving any technical or logical justification to the rejection of an amendment that was shared. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator Castaldi is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-11-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-911.ana.u16	Madam President, I would ask you to allow me to deliver the written text of my speech, given the limited time available to me.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-11-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-911.ana.u17	The Presidency shall authorise it accordingly.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-11-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-911.ana.u18	CASTALDI (M5S). I do not want to go into the substance of what has been done in the budget committee, because other Members will probably do so, but in my Commission, the 10th, we have made a contrary report and we will vote no to trust, of course. The way things went down, I can't help but repeat what was written in that report. There is a riot of funds that have been refinanced, reprogrammed, definanced or even abolished. Resources are being lost in a myriad of small interventions with very limited effects, meeting multiple objectives, ignoring the real priorities and using the flexibility of the European Union to sterilize the mechanism of VAT clauses and increase the deficit and current expenditure, without being able to share public investment, a fundamental lever for creating growth, development and good employment, down by 4% in the last year. They voted for "manifest" rules because the elections are approaching and therefore flagging measures makes. Maybe, but I think, in fact, I am convinced that this time you have done the wrong things. Nor do I want to point out that a well-known political part in this House has conditioned several decisions to assert its primacy on a number of appropriations, thanks also to an explicit political blackmail to which the majority has not opposed, on the contrary. However, I would like to point out that the 5 Star Movement Group, as it has done since the beginning of this adventure in Parliament, has proposed a series of ideas to solve real problems, and even in this budget law it has remained unheard of. Each of us, in our own field of action, has proposed solutions useful to the community and with the aim of aiming for the common good. For example, as far as I am concerned, I have tried to exempt the persons for whom exposure to asbestos has been recognised, albeit only in the degree of merit of the process, from the refund of pension benefits provided for workers exposed to asbestos. It cost only one million euros and you said no, but at the same time you found 10, 100 times as much for localistic, targeted and profitable, obvious (at this point the expression is due) marchette. As well as, through the tax credit it has been tried to facilitate the clean-up of asbestos or asbestos-containing materials in public spaces and open to the public. We were aiming for the progressive replacement of asbestos materials with other products of equivalent use. Much has been proposed on sustainable mobility, starting from the support to the cycling to continue the realization of the green Adriatic Corridor in the Abruzzo region, for the recovery and the redevelopment to use cycle-pedal of the already existing tracks and for the realization of the necessary interventions in the municipalities concerned, as has been tried to encourage, through the provision of grants, the purchase of electric bicycles with assisted pedaling. By granting loans at a reduced rate to private individuals operating in the fields of green economy and research in the field of smart cities, we thought we would find your support for a useful action to strengthen employment, which is the main problem of our country. Here too: spades. In order to encourage the daily use of local public transport and to promote the State's contribution to the achievement of the European standards of the local and regional public transport fleet, an attempt has been made to increase the funding of the fund for the purchase of vehicles designed to improve the services offered for local public transport. Then, reclamation of the isochemistry, Bussi sul Tirino, fund for tourist cycling, aid to small municipalities through reduced VAT rates, tax credit, gas oil and LPG facilities, incentives for the production of energy from renewable sources. All rejected. No alternative and different solution proposed by the majority. Nothing. By principle at the 5 Star Movement you have to say no. And so, again this time, the action that a real budget law could have if faced with different criteria and with a country vision that is not linked only and exclusively to the immediate electoral return will be frustrated. All this has been considered useless. It is rage, Mr President, not because the rejection of some of these proposals comes from a political choice; in that case I would have accepted, not understood, but accepted. You've made choices at least questionable. The ratio of the Industry Plan 4.0, wanted and claimed several times by the Minister of Economic Development, was as clear as it was simple: to build two pillars, the investments in technology and the skills to govern them. At one year of the presentation we can say with little doubt, indeed without, that the first pillar worked, while compared to the second little, or even nothing, has moved. For example, the competence center chapter is completely impaled. The almost total concentration of the Italian Government's National Industry 4.0 Plan on manufacturing and factory production is not positive at a time when, thanks to the Internet of Things, industry and services are always interconnected, giving rise to business models, markets, processes, products and consumption dynamics, not only new, but also integrated. The technology has also deeply affected the way we look at the world of travel, expanding the possibility of obtaining information to a great extent, revolutionizing the traditional concept of mediation and thereby reducing the information asymmetry between producer and consumer. The resources to be committed in the tourism sector had to be directed and qualified more to support the growth of the digital dimension, which is now unstoppable. If the opportunities of this new challenge were not to be grasped, the negative effects of the spread of automation and new technologies could also be amplified, negatively impacting both economically and socially. In conclusion, Mr President, there is anger at the fact that many of these proposals of common sense have been sunk down to please localistic interventions, but that is, and perhaps, indeed, that is why so many citizens like us have decided to come here with the aim of replacing you as soon as possible. [[Applause from the M5S Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-11-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-911.ana.u19	Senator Gasparri is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-11-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-911.ana.u20	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, representatives of the Government, rapporteurs and colleagues, we have tried to make a positive contribution to the debate and the launch of the Stability Act today in our examination. In fact, never reasoning in the name of the much worse, the better, we have tried with specific proposals, concrete, motivated and with so much coverage, to draw attention to a number of themes. Here I would like to mention two of the many, on which other colleagues such as Senator Mandelli and colleagues from the Budget Commission, who have participated in the usual marathon, will be able to speak and make further comments. On all the front pages of the newspapers today I read news about the trend of birth in Italy. There are alarming data; as has been the case for a long time, the number of births, even those of foreigners, which everyone cited as a numerically important contribution to the resident population; then we must see whether citizens or not. There is a further decline and a complex crisis, but this is not the place to analyse in detail the social, economic, housing, psychological, cultural and various problems affecting the birth rate. Well, we, in view of this news, read in the newspapers of these hours, on the one hand, the demographic data ISTAT and, on the other hand, the announcement that the bonus baby - we as center-right to the government have made policies that have looked in this direction, to the birth rate, to the support of families with children and to the large families; we have foreseen social policies protecting the house with the launch of the taxing of the first house, which was definitely a message to the families, along with many others - it is extended for the next year, but then halved for the following year, 2019, that is the day after tomorrow. Therefore, the Renzi Government and that Gentiloni Silveri, in its continuity (because it is a policy that has continued), and the Democratic Party, which is its pivot, go to strike the family with a reduced bestowal at the moment when current events should tell us that we need to act more. Don't you know where to find the money? You're spending 5 billion euros on immigrants this year, other than cover! There are overcoats for the family, the baby bonus and the birth rate; it's that you don't care about these things and you cut them off. I mentioned the 5 billion per year for immigration, but many other things could be mentioned. You say you extended it, but then you cut it in half. I know that everyone then deludes themselves that the next year there will be another law, but in the meantime this is the law that you bring to the vote and this law - I say it also to those who should follow us out of here - halves the baby bonus since 2019, while they do not halve but considerably reduce the births. There is no relationship of cause and effect, but a country's development that should involve housing, fiscal and social policies of various kinds and, instead, you did not. Staying in the family, for direct family assistance to people with disabilities, which is a particular chapter of suffering and discomfort, I and many colleagues from Forza Italia signed an amendment - I want to acknowledge my colleague Bignami that he had great tenacity in pursuing this cause by finding broad consensus - but we cannot fail to say that the figure is small. A chapter of expenditure will be opened that can be increased in the future, but some have split up and there will be 7 euros that are responsible for any case of discomfort. So, you could do more and better. We, as usual (as Vice Minister Morando knows, with whom we have been discussing this issue for some time), stressed the need for security. Already in the tax decree, which today goes to the vote with confidence in the House - I don't know if they modified it or if it remained identical; I am told that it remained the same - we of Forza Italia from the opposition had to fight to recover funds for the payment of overtime of the Police Forces, that perhaps they will have - hopefully if they will not make accounting tricks in some office of Government - a residual figure in 2017 and 2018 for a partial payment of overtime. I'll tell Deputy Minister Morando and his colleague that he's repeating his lesson. President, I expect Deputy Minister Morando to finish the conversation. This is already a useless rite... PRESIDENT. Deputy Minister Morando, listen. Senator Collina, don't disturb the Deputy Minister, so you can listen to Senator Gasparri's speech. Gasparri (FI-PdL XVII). Perhaps there is a reshuffle of government, so we also free the Deputy Minister from requests who knows whether petulants or important. Deputy Minister, I wanted to draw your attention to the issue of overtime for the police forces in the tax decree. We had identified a figure of 66 million; then a final formulation was made which provided for the remaining figures. Make sure something stays here until December 31st. I'd like you to stay on the record. I would not want that chapter to be drained from here to 31 December, so that the postponement of those figures to 2018 for overtime remains nothing. In this law we had proposed an appropriation for the security and defence sector of 1.7 billion for 2019, but initially of 1.2 billion for 2018. I realize that these are important figures. However, everyone rinses their mouths on security, emergency, going to Ostia, not sending the army, sending the police or paratroopers. It serves in the sector, because even now that Christmas is approaching there is the Security Plan of the cities and Christmas markets. Of course, they are beautiful, but today people are turning around in Europe who consider them a target. In short, there is a need for security that grows: military and police requirements. We have proposed that this appropriation be made. How do you cover it? We have indicated this in detail. There are many cuts and more at productive costs. I remember spending five billion on immigration this year. Instead, for the police contract, nothing. The contractual blockade is ancient; I know that various governments of all directions are guilty of it, but there was a decision of the Constitutional Court of 2015 that requires the renewal of public employment contracts. The security and defence sector, thanks to a law wanted by the Berlusconi Government, has its specificity in that it carries out a risky and dangerous job, which is considered a specificity within the public employment. But where's the contract? The 80 euros have been extended but then, included in the salary, they have become 35 because, of course, taxation erodes them. We have then said, with a text 2 to an amendment in this budget law, that if 1.2 billion is too many (5 billion to immigrants yes, but to the security and defence sector no), well, we allocate 200 million. And we didn't make that up, but we read it in the papers. The "Corriere" of the evening days ago, gathering the alarm cry of high police officers had quantified this public lamentation of high exponents, not of politics, but of the police forces, defining in 200 million the minimum requirements: like the staff, overtime and some hiring. There is something, but it is very little what you do. You said no. This I would like to summarize. I don't have much more to say. Then, the amendment, the marathon: yes, something is done and settled. But also where it is granted, like for family care for people with disabilities, we talk about 7 euros for each case. On the family and security this law of stability not only disappoints but does not give answers. Half the baby bonus for future years and does not give answers to the security and defence sector: how will the contracts be made? How will security be ensured? They will do extraordinary things that no one will pay; we are talking about the police, the firemen and the public aid, which we have all rightly praised in emergencies. In this regard, with a gruesomeness I read the chronicles of the events of Rigopiano and I am pleased that there has been a regional councillor of the Abruzzo of Forza Italia, Lorenzo Sospiri, who had said that there were the dead when instead all bureaucrats said that nothing had to be done. Then, after deprecating the bureaucracies they minimized, we all praised the firefighters who (also there, as elsewhere, in the earthquakes) demonstrated their worth. Then, however, when we get to the appropriations, there is nothing. So, ours is a very serious and very reasoned no. We have tried, and I have also shown this with the intervention on the tax decree and other measures, to replace the government's fugitive in the matter of essential costs. Police overtime is one of the most urgent issues. The demonstrations, protests and terrorism: I do not have to motivate. In the law of stability you have said no to a few proposals of this nature. So, I believe in security workers and Italian families will take this into account. Sooner or later, we will vote. We do not yet know the date, but the legislature is coming to an end. And you will be rejected by your failure, your arrogance, your inability and your inattention to issues of priority importance. About family and security we will call you to respond, not so much in this House where you will arm yourselves with yet another confidence, but in front of the country that that confidence will not give you.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-11-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-911.ana.u21	The 26 winners of the 2017 Work Alfieri Award will be present in the gallery and will be awarded tomorrow by the Head of State. I greet them on behalf of the Presidency and all the senators and congratulate them because they are young people who have achieved excellent results in their studies and who will certainly have an important role in the future. Welcome to the Senate and many good wishes to all of you. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-11-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-911.ana.u22	Madam President, Mr Vice-Minister, ladies and gentlemen, this government's last budget law clearly captures the tensions within the majority, made evident during the work of the Commission, and returns to the country a picture with many shadows and few lights, an instant of a legislature characterized too often by flaunted "I want but I cannot", false promises or promises that are often heard of electoral ads. The work of the Budget Commission has certainly corrected the pitch of a measure in many respects disappointing. Something more was expected: the country was waiting for more incisive, structural, concrete and definitive measures. On the other hand, it was preferred, once again, to intervene to limit the damage and not to displease anyone. This, at least, is the feeling that many - too many - have had. In this case too, therefore, there has been a lack of a strategic and overall vision, a vision capable of providing adequate responses to the demands of the country and the less privileged classes. This time, too, it has weighed heavily on the European Commission's call to avoid going back on structural reforms, particularly pension reforms. Moving on to the measures that we members of the Mixed-Doing Group! We have proposed, we regret to have to point out, among other things, that we did not want to find a solution for the extension of the so-called "women's option" mechanism. As we all know, these are women who are called to face a daily life that is far from easy and who, with commendable self-denial and determination, often, we can always say, are able to overcome the shortcomings of our social welfare system. I therefore call on the Government, also here, to take action in order to give a concrete response on such a sensitive and equally awaited issue, perhaps during the passage of the provision to the Chamber of Deputies, in which we really hope there will be further attention. Mr Morando, I would like to address you: women are asking for this, not for a good time or for the pleasure of staying at home and leaving work, but - I repeat - most of the time they are really obliged to remain on the front line and to compensate for the shortcomings that arise from the crisis and the difficulty of using the structures of the socio-assistant system, which are sometimes too burdensome and difficult to access. A response - and we will see how comprehensive it is - has been given to savers, who have seen their assets taken away from them within a system which, in the light of the work that the Committee of Inquiry into the banking system is doing, has made them victims. This was a due act, partially refreshing of the treatment given by those banks to accountants and shareholders. Thanks to the cooperation between the various political forces - we must acknowledge this - and the interaction on this issue has succeeded in giving a first response. I would therefore like to thank all those who have done so in the Commission and I also thank them for the first step that the Government has taken, accepting our requests. The establishment of a fund for savers, in our opinion, is only a timid first step, but the dynamic aspect of the norm leads us in the right direction and we hope that this is really the starting point, to give breath again to savers, families, pensioners and all those who believed in a system that, instead, led them to ruin and, unfortunately, sometimes, also to the definitive choice of suicide. So we really feel responsible for a failing system, which has invested and phagocited these people, proposing to them a unfortunately non-existent future. More incisive interventions should be provided to small municipalities and provinces. Local authorities, many in difficult economic situations, have seen an alarming decline in their policy capacity in recent years. Particular attention should be paid - and on this I would like to ask the Government to intervene in the passage of the measure to the Chamber of Deputies, as has been stated in the Commission - to the fully mountainous Provinces, therefore to disadvantaged and in difficulty Provinces, to which the specificity has for now been recognized only on paper by the so-called Delrio law, and to the municipalities that have started a merger process, with all the problems that this entails: let us think about taxation and what else has been carried out by these municipalities. If this is the direction set by the government, it is also right to allow simplification and to facilitate proper implementation, so as to give concrete answers to the municipalities that have followed the direction you want. The proposed amendment to the single programming document for municipalities with a population of less than 5 000 is also desirable. Even in this case more could have been done and made optional its preparation, as requested by the Mixed-Fare Group!, in order to meet the needs of rationalization and simplification for small entities. In this respect, we have tabled an amendment, which has been accepted by the rapporteurs and the majority. With this amendment we wanted this jump and this burden to be eliminated, but the fact that we have created a committee or institute to study the problems and the difficulties to make it easier indicates, however, the beginning of a path that we hope will lead the municipalities to lift from the burden itself. We would have liked to have finally foreseen substantial measures in favour of the National Corps of firemen, the Alpine Rescue and all those forces that, with attention and ability, involving also the part of voluntary personnel, assist us, but unfortunately still serve obvious differences of treatment compared to the other Corps of public aid. We in the House will continue to support their rightful demands, as we will certainly do for all the other issues that unfortunately have not been answered in the Senate. Allow me, Madam President, to express my personal satisfaction and the satisfaction of the Group of the European People's Party! for the approval in the Commission of certain amendments, the result of battles carried out for years with determination. I refer in particular to the contribution to the management and maintenance work of the Vajont Monumental Cemetery. Here too, however, this is a small first step in the right direction. The massacre of Vajont is not only a Venetian or Belluno issue, but concerns Italy as a whole. It is therefore right that in this draft budget law resources have finally been found for what, by decree of the President of the Republic of 2 October 2003, was declared a national monument. Excellent and necessary - and this is also a wish that I address to the Government - would be the stabilization of this contribution and a clear and strong signal to recognize what was a massacre that was not derived from an environmental problem, but - as we know - from much more: it was greed and other human factors that caused that great disaster. Something has been done, and much, maybe too much, remains to be done. It is our political duty to urge and propose more incisive measures, to the Government to reverse the course and to act in the interests of the territories, small businesses, workers and disadvantaged classes, to whom our amendments, unfortunately, were not accepted. I would like to mention, for example, another amendment concerning the mechatronics qualification course, an important sector which, having failed to meet the extension we asked for, will be in 2018 with great difficulty in being able to continue its activity. Our Group hopes that, even on this request, there will be a rethinking on the part of the Government, also because it is an amendment that is not burdensome, but it is simply an extension that allows the regions, sometimes - this is true - perhaps not fulfilling, to give in any case activation to these courses that are preparatory to the carrying out of the activity. The legislature comes to an end, the time is little, we know it well, but precisely because of this it will have to be used to try to return to the country the image of a political class and of an Executive committed to giving answers and finding solutions, putting aside as useless as stucco personalisms and putting the interest of the country before ambitions and unjustified cries of leadership. For all these reasons, the vote of our Group will be against, in the hope that the other branch of Parliament will be able to make some corrections and that, in the sense that we want, we will be willing to give those answers that have been lacking in this part of Parliament, but that we are sure that our Group will still be supported and reiterated in the House. So our vote will be against, but with the prayer to give voice to the demands that we wanted, with our amendments and with our speeches, to bring to this Senate. [[Applause from the Mixed-Fare Group!]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-11-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-911.ana.u23	He's enlisted to speak Senator Ciampolillo. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-11-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-911.ana.u24	Madam President, I address the citizens at home, who follow us either from the satellite platform or from YouTube or who are probably in the car and are listening to this live on Rai Gr-Parliament or on Radio Radicale. That is precisely what I would like to talk to you about, because at the moment there is a duplicate: the signal coming from this House is being transmitted simultaneously both on Radical Radio and on Rai Gr Parliament. This happens - it is right that all citizens know it - with public money: those we give to RAI with the canon we pay, among other things, with the electric bill and those that, at the same time, the Government for several years - too many - allocates for Radical Radio (10 million euros per year, in addition to the 4 million that already perceives as party radio). Now the Government has decided that even for the next three years Radical Radio will continue to transmit parliamentary work; therefore it is 30 million euros: 10 million per year for three years. We do not understand why citizens have to pay twice. As has already emerged in the course of the work of the RAI Supervisory Commission and the 8th Commission, Rai Gr Parliament, despite the enormous public resources it obtains from the fee, is unable to ensure full coverage. We then make a duplicate: we give a private radio, which is then a party radio - among other things, it is official that the radicals will be allied with Renzi in the next elections and to date are the only ones to have officialized it - an additional 10 million euros per year for three years, in addition to the 4 million that already have as party radio. The problem is that Rai Gr Parliament fails to provide adequate coverage: we practically spend money on transmitters, installations and maintenance for something that is not needed, so it is true that we have Radio Radicale do it. We cannot understand why at this point we are not allowed to eliminate the service of Rai Gr Parliament for at least the next three years, since this service will be guaranteed by Radio Radicale. [[Comments of Senator Bencini]] Madam President, I cannot be interrupted by my colleagues. Therefore, at the same time we had asked several times to intervene and this House even unanimously approved an agenda that I had presented to transmit on digital terrestrial the two signals of Chamber and Senate, so that from home any person of any age who did not have access or familiarity with the Internet and with satellite channels could see the direct integrals of Chamber and Senate on digital terrestrial simply typing 401 and 402. The House has asked for this, but the government has been listening as a merchant to this day. The same applies to the issue of digital terrestrial frequencies. Let's make a quick excursus of what happened. The government, about three years ago, had assigned the frequencies of digital terrestrial to local and national televisions. It happens that those who were not "good," because outside the agreements with Europe, had all assigned them, together with the good ones, to local televisions. For this reason there was a falsity of frequencies of local broadcasters, because the Government has only one interest: to give maximum visibility on digital terrestrial televisions to national broadcasters both public and private. What's the target? Killing local television. We said that when there was a local frequency falsity, the first, in which, among other things, compensation had to be paid. The state said: I was wrong to give you these frequencies, so I'll pay you. Now we are in the second round of mark because we go to 5G, so mobile phones, which will remove additional frequencies, and this is a good thing because the introduction of 5G will give so many useful services. So there will be additional compensation; we will therefore go to national networks to give more than EUR 270-300 million, because frequencies will be removed. But this isn't the only advantage the networks will have, because there's another one. You know very well that we are talking about switching to DVB-T2. What does that mean? Today there is the first version of digital terrestrial, i.e. DVB-T1. It will happen that the transmitter will have to change modulation and transmit with the DVB-T2 signal. But at home, to see those channels that will transmit with the new terrestrial digital system, you will need to have a receiver. So, since televisions broadcast in DVB-T2, you have to have the DVB-T2 receiver. It happens that this government has decided to make a double passage: for a year or a year and a half will pass to the DVB-T2 system first the premises, and then calmly follow the national ones. Obviously it will happen that those who do not have the digital terrestrial receiver DVB-T2 at home, almost all of them, will suddenly no longer see the premises. This, Mr. Deputy Minister, is a further gift to the national broadcasters. Know that, with this budget law, the government effectively shuts down local television. In fact, who from home will be able to see a local television broadcasting with DVB-T2? Will the Italians rush to change the TV to see the local televisions? Local televisions will no longer see them; in a year and a half they will disappear and we will in fact create a monopoly of national televisions only. The nice thing is that, obviously, the government does not realize that the world goes in another direction: it will be all digital and soon the television, as we know it, will be gone. The same applies to the DAB. There is this other deception on digital radio, you will have heard about it: what a beautiful digital radio, the future and the so-called DAB+. However, very few people have the DAB+ and some rare car manufacturers put it in the receivers in the car. What happens with this DAB+? I'll tell you why, because what happened is really disturbing. Today on digital radios they can broadcast with the DAB all over Italy those networks that, by 2009, had requested to experiment. At one point Agcom came and said: from 2009 who is there, there is (there were only national radios) and can hold experimental frequencies; in those areas where the frequency of digital radio has not yet been assigned, no one else can transmit. Therefore, today the experimentation can only be done by the big networks and in those areas (it is a lot of Regions, that cover about half of Italy) where the Ministry has not assigned the frequencies you can obviously not listen to all the local radios in digital. Why this? Networks have a specific interest, that is to value the assets in FM that they have; this DAB must then be done, but only they must do it. Just to let you understand what we're talking about, on one of these experimental frequencies that was assigned by the Ministry before 2009, within a whole mux (where there may be more radios) transmit: RTL 102.5, RTL Best, RTL Groove, RTL Coast Guard, RTL Italian Style, RTL Lounge, RTL Rock, RTL Viaradio. It is, that is, a mux practically assigned entirely to a single national operator (along with some other channels such as Vatican Radio, Radio Italia SMI and Radio Padania). In the draft budget law there is this rule that obliges radio receivers manufacturers to integrate in the same receivers from here to two years, at least an interface that allows digital reception. We had asked to be able to insert at least one reference to the DAB because it is the only real standard and was denied us; this means that this DAB will not be done now, nor ever. That is clear today. Finally, we welcome the adoption of an agenda for people with obesity. In Italy alone there is an estimate of 6 million overweight people. The World Health Organization estimates the world's presence of 1.9 billion overweight people, of whom 600 million are obese. Obesity sufferers experience a number of problems throughout their daily lives that may seem almost non-existent to those who are not affected by obesity. But that's not the case and I'll give you an example. When people with obesity enter the bank, the voice message is often heard in the security access gate: Please enter one at a time. In fact, the system is calibrated on a number of kilos and exceeded the threshold you listen to this message. Of course, the voice message is also heard by those outside and the laughter that creates many problems of embarrassment to these people, who already experience many difficulties. The same happens when you go to the trucks or gas stations, where often tables and chairs are blocked and people with obesity have problems sitting down. This agenda therefore commits the Government to finding the necessary resources to ensure the mobility and accessibility of people affected by this problem. For this I thank all the associations that have signalled the problem and the people who have told it, like Fabio De Nunzio and Vittorio Graziosi. [[Applause from the M5S Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-11-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-911.ana.u25	Senator Tosato is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-11-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-911.ana.u26	Madam President, we are facing the last budget law of this legislature but, in reality, the last budget law of a long period, characterized by the Government of the Democratic Party, started at the end of 2011, with the arrival, unexpected and even somewhat questionable, of a pseudotechnical government, that of Monti, then continued with the PD governments of Letta, Renzi and Gentiloni Silveri. I therefore believe that it is time to make budgets on the effectiveness of the action of these governments and this political force, which - it is clear now - is in free fall in the eyes of the Italians, as evidenced by the recent elections held in Sicily. I think it is clear to everyone that the situation we are facing is much more serious than what we lived six years ago. We are in a situation where many businesses and many economic activities have failed, where there has been an increase in the tax burden (especially under the Monti Government), which has brought the country to its knees instead of lifting it up. It is a situation in which citizens no longer have confidence in the institutions and have lost all their certainties, in terms of security, but above all with regard to the future, to work, to the possibility of having a hope of improving their living conditions, and they have even lost the certainty that they can consider their savings safe and have a decent pension once their working lives have ended. This is the legacy, the situation we are facing with a final budget law that is totally inadequate. It has been defined by Prime Minister Gentiloni Silveri and Minister Padoan as a slim maneuver; I believe, instead, that we are facing an absolutely inconsistent maneuver, rather than slim. Indeed, the only real answer it gives is to postpone the application of the safeguard clauses, i.e. an increase in the tax burden, especially with regard to VAT; but it does so, for the umpteenth time, without canceling for the future the possibility that these increases will take place, because it is a postponement to 2019, not a cancellation. It is a continuous pursuit in an attempt not to apply these unholy taxes and these unholy increases on VAT and petrol, which could further depress our economy, a problem that a government will eventually face. We would not want this postponement to be just a function of the fact that, perhaps in the next parliamentary term, due to stronger positions taken by the European Commission, a government, perhaps of national unity (a bad government, which we do not want), is in a position to communicate to the country that there is no longer any room to postpone the increase in these excise duties. We would have expected, as the last gesture from the government, the zeroing of these wretched measures, certainly not a postponement. You have also been rejected by the European Commission, however, always with a postponement of decisions, which will have to be taken in the spring by the next government, perhaps with requests for new maneuvers, estimated in the order of 5 billion euros, therefore serious maneuvers. You have then prepared, apart from this postponement of tax increases, a budget law that seeks to address, to commercials, some real and real themes, but by inserting absolutely inadequate figures, which are symbolic, more than anything else testimonies of your inadequacy and the inability to give concrete answers to the real needs. I am referring to one of the major issues affecting our society, namely birth. Today, all the newspapers are talking about this birth scare, of 100,000 less born in recent years. Italian society is also in decline in this regard and hunting young people from its country. In recent times, in fact, every year more than 100,000 Italians, mostly young graduates, have fled this country because inhospitable for those who want to create a family and have a decent future and work. These are the numbers of your failure: we cannot reduce ourselves to believing that the only significant figure to consider your success is the increase in gross domestic product. This is a ridiculous increase compared to the European average, it is almost a drag effect: it was not you who pulled these numbers, which are derisory and which seems to be falling from the forecast from next year and in the following, and which are not the result of your maneuvers. It is not the policy of bonuses, the one so dear to Matteo Renzi, that can create development. These are absolutely bankrupt policies and it is demonstrated by the suffering that still exists in our country. You can try to keep it hidden in this House, but it is obvious to those who frequent our cities and our communities. There is still a very vast malaise, anger and lack of hope in the future: these are the real evils of the country, which you have not attacked. And it will certainly not be the baby bonus, with those 80 euros for a year - which then become 40 in the following - to create prospects for the growth of households. There is the theme of the kindergartens that must be addressed: they pay very high fees, which must be reset. The attendance of kindergartens must be considered a right of citizens, like the compulsory school; this would be a qualitative leap in Italian culture. Certainly the reduction of supertickets imposed by the state and governments in the past years is also absolutely ridiculous. It is a symbolic figure that is allocated, even here in the illusory attempt to demonstrate to the citizens that they give answers. This is also the case with the issue of pensions, with a reformetta, a completely inadequate measure. It seems that at the last moment you want to put patches where there are chasms of social injustice compared to the real needs of the country and our families. There are also other issues, and I am referring to your approach to the autonomy of our territories. After repeated maneuvers, which have reduced in unsustainable terms the transfers to local authorities, municipalities, provinces and regions that are the ones that actually provide the daily services that are dear to the citizens, because you have not managed to cut the public expenditure state; which you have never wanted, could not, do; after these continuous cuts that have made the services to citizens absolutely inadequate (as regards health, the maintenance of school buildings and roads and social services), after all these maneuvers continued therefore in the policy of reducing the spaces of autonomy. Not only did you try last year's referendum, the one on 4 December, which sent Matteo Renzi home, and you failed, but again this year, continuously, in every budget measure. One demonstration of all concerns the territory from which I come, Veneto, where the majority of citizens, with a clear and clear outcome of a referendum whose turnout was 57 percent, decided that this time we do not want or ask, but we demand greater autonomy from the State. What do you do with this budget law? What is this Government's first response? Reduce autonomy. You have imposed a rule that provides for the establishment of a park, that of the Po Delta, interregional and national, totally ignoring the demands, not only of the Region, the territories and the Provinces, but also of the municipalities, the associations of the citizens and those who work and need to produce income in those territories. You have proceeded along this path of the blind and deaf budget law in the face of the needs and demands of the territory, demonstrating that you have not learned anything following the strong signal that came from Veneto and Lombardy, that they no longer trust the central governments, who want and claim to manage skills and resources on their territories, and go ahead on your way. But the road for you is closed, it's over, you're at the end of the line, because the answers you haven't been able to give it, that's obvious. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group]] You will find out clearly and unequivocally in the next elections. Then there is one last rule that is an insult, an offense to tens of thousands of savers who have been conned by banks, by the government, by this country, who had faith in a dignified future, in an attempt to put aside the fruit of their work in some banking institutions. What response have you given to this social drama that affects so many territories of our country? You have allocated €50 million (€25 million in 2018 and €25 million in 2019) to restore the damage suffered by this huge amount of people. Codacons has given figures in relation to the damage that has been done to our citizens, quantifying them to 44 billion. I don't know if it's an exaggerated estimate, but I know for a fact that 50 million (only 25 million in 2018) is a joke. Beware that there is something worse than not being able to give answers to citizens and it is deceiving them and making fun of them. And you are doing just that, the worst thing a political class can do. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group.]] It would have been better if you had not thrown this tip into this budget, which is also difficult to obtain, because it will take a government decree to establish the criteria, requirements, modalities and conditions for accessing this fund, not within one hundred and twenty days as the amendment seemed to establish, but within one hundred and eighty days; as if to say: the next government will think about it, they do not say how it will be done. One thing, however, you say, that these compensations will only take place as a result of past judgments in court, basically with the obligation for these swindled savers to sue the banks, with a difficult, complicated and impossible path. This is the last - yet again - shame of this Government, which instead of giving answers to the country lived of bonuses, promises, deceptions, communications that were absolutely not truthful. But, look at the citizens, they will remember this experience, these six years of bad government, lies and illusions. The time for you has expired - or it will expire soon - and I hope that the next Government will point to a development that will give certainty to our families, and certainty of a better future for those young Italians who still want to build a future in Italy, in our territories, and not be forced to emigrate, the greatest shame we have experienced in recent years. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-11-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-911.ana.u27	He's enlisted to speak Senator Malan. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-11-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-911.ana.u28	Madam President, Mr President-in-Office of the Government, ladies and gentlemen, the budget law sets out the priorities of a government, a majority, a political entity in relation to the country's expenditure. At this budgetary session, for example, the two measures that we are most rightly talking about these days (on the basis of amendments tabled by the opposition and then received and voted on by the majority): two good measures such as the one for the restoration of the baby bonus (in the original text there was no) and the one that establishes the fund for the so-called caregivers (as they are defined, unfortunately using a foreign term), those who take care of sick family members in their own home. Two good things, but the budget law lays down precisely the priorities and the quantities. It is a good thing that these two arguments have been touched on, but when it comes to money, there is little to do, obviously the point is quantity. And what's the quantity? For the baby bonus, as can be seen from the coverage, there are approximately 100 million this year and 100 million the following year. We usually talk about the figures year by year, so let's say a hundred million, even if this year is slightly less. Well, much more than nothing; less than last year. The bonus consists in the fact that families with children under three years of age, who are below quite low levels of income, will benefit from 80 euros per month. Starting next year, this benefit will be EUR 40. This means that the recognition that the State gives to a family that decides to bring a child into the world is, at most, and only for those who are low income, about 140 euros per month or 100 euros from next year (summing this bonus with what is recognized in deduction for a dependent child). Even then, better than nothing. We know, however, that compared to these 100 million euros that are allocated for the baby bonus, there are 5 billion euros, according to the declarations of the government, that serve for the immediate reception of immigrants. The 600,000 immigrants who with great determination the current Government and the previous one wanted to bring to Italy in any way, boasting the fact, as said a few days ago by the President of the Council Gentiloni Silveri, that Italy is the only country to have a decent policy on immigration. This in his thinking means a policy of wide acceptance. No other country in Europe does, we do. There is quite a disproportion; 5 billion against 100 million. Immigrants are allocated fifty times as much as they are given for new births. Speaking of the benefit for the individual family, we know that above a not certainly stellar income, an Italian family has zero benefits for a dependent child, or better it can have a deduction of about 600 euros per year, equal to about 50 euros per month, provided it is not above a certain income, which can become up to 140 euros for those who have low income. Each of these 600,000 immigrants arrived in recent years, costs instead more than 1,000 euros per month, not counting the approximately 200 euros per month that costs health care for every resident in Italy, both Italian and foreign and foreigners get sick as much as we do; being younger, moreover, they get sick to a lesser extent of the diseases typical of the old age, but to a greater extent of diseases that lead from their countries of origin: ask the doctors who deal with these people what it is about, in particular to the urologists. Although the average of these immigrants is very young, it is unfortunately affected by very problematic diseases to be treated, to which our health system is not accustomed, creating a great burden for our expenses. There are also children, who rightly attend our schools. Every child who goes to school, Italian or foreign, costs the State about 700 euros per month, including the summer months. So, not to mention this, for each immigrant there are more than 1,000 euros per month, for each family with child, perhaps, when it's okay, 140 euros, in average cases around 50 euros, in many cases zero absolute. This tells us that obviously the priorities they give themselves are different from what I believe most Italians would want. As already said, precisely in these days, because it is a topical issue (and we keep in mind that the budget law lasts a year), Istat has announced that also in 2016, as in all the years of this legislature, there has been a negative record of births, that in 2016 they have dropped to 473,000, with little more than 400,000 Italian children (summing the children born from both Italian parents to those born at least from an Italian parent who, as it is right that it is, have Italian citizenship). We have 400,000 born in a year. Think that more than a million children were born in 1964. We're always talking about Italy, not another country. In previous and subsequent years the figure was just under a million. Today we are at 400,000: you see the results of the priorities you give. EUR 5 billion is earmarked for immigrants and EUR 100 million for children; it is normal for many more immigrants to arrive than children. In fact, the results can be seen. I would like to stress another point by contrasting figures more or less as distant as those I have already mentioned. The issue of caregivers is absolutely right. In the medium term - and perhaps even in the short term - it can be a saving for the State, if it is a real stimulus for families to take care of their loved ones directly, with great benefit for the person cared for being in a family environment instead of elsewhere, in a depersonalized environment. But how much is it allocated? EUR 60 million is allocated over three years: EUR 20 million per year. Someone - I hope - abounding a little in the figures said that the people who should receive this assistance, i.e. their families, are 3 million; which would make the beauty of seven euros a year, which I do not believe will change the situation even in the most disadvantaged families. However, it is already a positive sign, even if it remains only that way. We find just 20 million euros for families who care for people who are not self-sufficient and need continuous assistance (which is practically nothing, although we hope that the fund will increase), but with Article 32 of the budget law there are 120 million euros (a six times larger amount of money) to protect those who have made investments in countries that the international group specialized in this sector considers at serious risk, because they are unreliable or aggressive countries towards their neighbours. [[Applause from Senator Bignami]] There are smaller countries, but everyone knows that Iran is the centre of this measure. Three days ago the deputy head of the pasdarans, who are the real regime in Iran, declared that the circumstance that their missiles have a range of only 2,000 kilometers is not due to the impossibility of giving them a greater range but to the fact that so far they have not decided to do so. However, if Europe were to pose a threat - which means in their own language: if they do something to them that is unwelcome, such as re-introduction of sanctions or saying that it would not be nice if they went ahead with the development of the atomic bomb - they would have no problem increasing the range of their missiles. How far is Iran from Italy? Less than 2,200 kilometers from Iran to Puglia, less than 2,600 from Iran to Rome, less than 3,000 from Iran to my Piedmont. At that time, EUR 120 million is allocated to a country with missiles that will soon be nuclear and which has already promised to destroy the sovereign state of Israel. For these we find 120 million euros, while for families who take care of the sick in their own home there are only 20 million euros. These are priorities that I absolutely do not agree with and that, as a centre-right, we must make a commitment to radically change in the next parliamentary term after the elections. [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-11-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-911.ana.u29	She's registered to speak Senator Parente. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-11-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-911.ana.u30	Madam President, this budget law is very important because, in the same text, aid is provided for young people at work - with stable structural incentives for firms employing them - and it introduces the principle that not all jobs are equal in the face of pensions (about 14,600 people and fifteen categories; from steel work to construction, to children's school teachers, to other categories), as has rightly been agreed between two trade unions and the Government. The parliamentary process has been very respectful of the dialectic between the Government and the social partners: a virtuous circle has really been established between the Government, Parliament and the social partners. Therefore, girls and boys are supported in finding work (the incentives concern, next year, boys under the age of thirty-five and, since 2019, to a stable extent, under thirty years) and a fundamental principle is also decided: the portability of the contributory exemption, which opens the way to an important principle, as I said; at the same time, people are helped to retire derogating from the automatism of life expectancy. It is a budget law in which most of the resources, as well as my colleagues in the exhibition, have recognized (sin that, on the one hand, they say one thing and, on the other, they support contradictory things), are bound not to increase VAT, thus allowing, with the freezing of safeguard clauses, to take a significant step to help Italy to no longer be monitored special in Europe. Moreover, these measures for young people and persons accompanied by retirement are certainly measures for the growth, employment and development of our country. Again on the subject of work, I am particularly pleased with an amendment approved in the Committee on Budgets concerning resources at ANPAL Servizi SpA, closely linked to the relocation allowance, another fundamental, important and new right in the Italian legal landscape: to accompany and help people to find work when they lose it. Equally important are the resources allocated to INAPP, the National Institute for the Analysis of Public Policies. We need so much to monitor and understand how laws impact to build more and more just laws linked to the reality of the facts. Also in the parliamentary dynamic, resources have also been given to the dual system and the school-work meeting, which we need so much, because it is the real labour policy: to support the skills of our young people, especially digital skills, as someone recalled. Moreover, on social policies it is the first time that - since 1 July this year - the budget law provides for a further strengthening of the fight against poverty: income of inclusion, which becomes a universal and national measure. This means that in Italy a poor person or family, from Lombardy to Calabria, are treated in the same way. It is a measure of great justice and equity. We have also strengthened the resources of the territorial services during the parliamentary process to enable this reform to be implemented and managed. I come to the question of caregivers. Madam President, it has been a value that the entire parliamentary arc, all colleagues of majority and opposition, has achieved this important step forward in supporting the work of care. Let us remember that this work of care is carried out 75% in Italy by women: a work often invisible and carried out in the shadows. We have established a dedicated fund today. Then I would like to ask Mr Malan how much the social policy fund was when the centre-right governs and how it has been reset over time. One cannot argue on such important matters, after there has been, precisely, a positive dialectic between majority and opposition on the subject. We set up a fund to give relief to these people, to these figures, who often do not even have time to take a walk, because they dedicate themselves to their loved ones, who need it. Now we must continue this battle, adopt a law that inserts the caregiver into the system of social welfare services, understand their needs and allow, for example, the increase of hours of home care, so that the people who devote themselves to care - especially mothers of children with disabilities - can also have a meaningful personal life. Today we pass the witness to the House of Deputies and I hope that in the other branch of Parliament this budget law can be further strengthened, especially in the income of inclusion, because we need to strengthen even more the social infrastructure to accompany people out of poverty, supporting the work of social workers, who have to take care of the people they need. There is one issue that I particularly care about, which is about supporting the economic and social fabric of small and medium-sized enterprises. We have achieved a great deal with individual savings plans: I hope that this can also be implemented for unlisted companies, linking them to environmental and social sustainability objectives. Finally, Madam President, the Government has undertaken, during the parliamentary process in the Senate, to further support pension interventions and then to intervene on the social EPA in the other branch of Parliament, when the Government will know the resources that are advanced by the Social EPA: it will happen these days, at the beginning of December. Many of my Group's amendments proposed extending the right to several categories of unemployed and also to facilitate the exit of women with children. We hope that this additional element of support for pensions will be confirmed, implemented and strengthened in the other branch of Parliament. I therefore believe, Madam President, that we are adopting a budget law, which will be fairer and fairer, as I have said, both for young people and for people of retirement age. I believe that one can read in these interventions, transversally, also a hug between generations, in addition to the actions that will serve development and growth, because we need this, also to take care of the topic of denatality. Public policy must, in fact, support cross-cuttingly, with work and also with interventions that promote access to retirement, the free choice of families, people and especially women, to bring children into the world. This is only done if we strengthen these interventions that talk about the future. [[Applause from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-11-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-911.ana.u31	I greet, on behalf of the Assembly, the teachers and students of the Liceo Scientifico "Giulietta Banzi Bazoli" in Lecce, who are attending our work. Welcome to the Senate. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-11-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-911.ana.u32	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen Vice-Presidents, Vice-Ministers, Undersecretaries, Members of this House, ladies and gentlemen, but I would simply like to call you, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to thank all those who have given us full confidence and who have warmed my heart during all these years of work, silent and solitary, with their sometimes firm, but always wise words, even if very hard, as in the case of Minister Anna Finocchiaro. I want to thank those who supported me and, of course, often endured. I thank those who were friends and who were lost, but thanks to whom I am here anyway. I thank those who have become new friends and also those I have found, thanks to the common feeling on commonly shared and aggregate themes. Thank you, ladies and gentlemen, thank you all very much, because you have helped to make me strong in my convictions, because you have helped to push me beyond my limits and beyond all reasonable audacity, because, in some cases, together, we have shown that it is true that unity is a force. I, we and you have pushed our hearts beyond the obstacle and demonstrated to the country, and to those who were wary, that joining together with real themes of common interest was and is possible, beyond any difference in color and political belief. Of all of you, but without this wanting to exclude anyone, my thanks (in this sense I believe I am interpreting a common feeling of affection in this House) go to President Zavoli, who has always supported me. I can only thank Aldo Bonfrisco and Anna Cinzia who, from the first agenda, have embraced this case by making available their resources. We have shown that doing good to the country today is still possible and not a fake news. Finally, I want to thank all the associations, moms and dads who from outside the building gave me the strength and courage to move forward: #a lawon Facebook is a place to find many. I invite you to read their stories. Colleagues, there are many reasons why I could use the "I" today to claim what has been done, but I in this House am nothing without you. So my speech will only emerge from the 'noi', not because I have decided not to see the thousand obstacles that have been deliberately placed before me, not because I do not want to see those who want to exploit, even in the face of the most obvious evidence, that we cannot campaign on this issue, let alone attribute the result to myself and to the 133 colleagues who signed the initiative first. From the tenacity with which we have pursued and achieved this objective, there will be only one "noi" for two reasons: because in a democracy the part is lost in everything and because in politics, as in life, it is necessary to be able to forgive. But also because improving oneself and the world in which we live passes and is realized in the actions that each of us carries out every day, with his own work and with his own talent. Intellectual dishonesty, improper appropriation does not belong to me. What we have achieved today in extremis in this bill of budget, without difference of political color, is a historic conquest for our country. The whole of Europe has been asking for this and our citizens for more than twenty years: I am talking about the recognition of the figure of the family caregiver. To solve a problem, the first step is to recognize that the problem exists. Now I would like to give the members of the Budget Committee a thought: think of the hours you have been working for the last few weeks, day and night: your common thought has been to wait for the end, the end of the votes. Well, you were like caregivers with the text of the budget law. It has been a continuous, assiduous, rigorous and tenacious care, but you are tired, destroyed, and bearing on your body the signs of fatigue. They, the family caregivers do not have an end to the budget session, they do this work not for weeks, but for thirty years and perhaps more. Thirty years of hard work, thirty years of hard work, and they cannot hope for the end: it would be asking the loved one, the loved one, to fail and this is impossible. This is how they are: they are lives of people who are not disabled. Family caregivers assist their loved ones because they are unable to take care of themselves and are unable to meet their primary needs. These people assist them all the time, deprived of the right to rest and the right to health. As I've always called them, they're innocent under house arrest. They did not choose to carry out this mission, they are not volunteers. They are chained to their caregivers, their homes, they often give up their work or lose it to devote themselves to their role of care. These heroes, to whom the State has so far denied even the only recognition of the name, exist today. You may not like the English term, perhaps hard to say for some half-bust of the news, but they are the family caregivers. We have made this first essential step possible: to recognise family caregivers and to put a chapter of expenditure in the state budget - even if it is a matter of few resources - with 20 million euros per year in the three-year period 2018-2020. Of course, it's not a lot of money, but there are and will only be funding legislative initiatives that will come into effect: those who divide the total by a number, probably didn't read the text. We have the fund, we have a precise and punctual definition that leaves no room for imaginative interpretations and concerns an audience of millions of people who take care of their joint. These are the laws which are referred to in the unanimously adopted amendment, with the signatures of so many of us and of all the Leaders - they tell me that this is the first time in this parliamentary term and I am pleased about it - they must look at that figure which we now recognize as caregivers; they must define the priorities with which they will be able to access the benefits reserved for them because of the seriousness and duration of the illness of their caregiver, in order to be able to meet the many needs so far denied. Among these, I think of employment needs, because many of these people give up their professional accomplishments because they have to devote themselves to caring for their loved ones; they renounce the right to health because, in order to care for their loved ones, who cannot leave them alone, they renounce to care for themselves, as well as they renounce the right to reconcile the times of life and work. For those who work and have sick relatives, in fact, life often becomes a hell and the risk of being unjustly fired is always very high, thanks also to the measures adopted in this legislature that have canceled the rights of the workers: just look at the affair of the mother alone with two children, of which one disabled, recently fired by Ikea. I am thinking of the possibility of actually working from home, with teleworking, the right to a decent pension through a figurative contribution for those who have never been able to work: not those who have not worked, but those who have never been able to work or have given up work to fulfil their role of care. I think about the right to retire before others, because being a family caregiver shortens life by even seventeen years, as Elizabeth Blackburn has shown. In short, all this and more could be resolved in those legal measures provided for in the rule approved in the Commission which will be confirmed by this House, legislative measures that Parliament is called upon to make. We have a firm position in the Commission - and here I appeal to President Sacconi - which we could approve in a short time, in the deliberating session, in both branches of Parliament. We can renew the welfare system. Many initiatives are not burdensome, but could substantially change the lives of these people. They don't want money. They want rights denied so far. That is why I repeat my appeal to President Grasso, President Boldrini and President Mattarella to allow us to end this parliamentary term by approving measures that are not divisive, as others can be, and to allow us to work and give the green light to a framework law on caregivers which, as demonstrated in the Budget Commission, has been able to unite everyone, no one excluded, even the most sceptical who have waited for the vote to sign the amendment, to which I also thank you. I have to leave it to you, you who will return to these scrabbles, an appeal: don't forget the caregivers, those who alienate themselves from ghosts for a very heavy task, which is an absolutely proven saving for public finances: let's retire them, let's recognize this work of care with figurative contributions, let's not let them die, like my friend Victoria, like Sabrina and like many others, without having answers for themselves and for the future of their loved ones. Let's give it to these people. Some things you can do already in the House, you who boast great success and you have someone who represents you in the other branch of Parliament. Allow family caregivers to benefit from the EPA without waiting for sixty-three years of age, but only with the requirement of thirty years. Give family caregivers the recognition of a customary job, calculating the seventeen years I said. I conclude today my last speech in this parliamentary term with a clear vote against, because the vote of confidence is always a political vote, but with the example and proof that politics can be different: politics can be aggregate and it can also be an opportunity for a senator by chance, alone, but determined, to put a brick even in a Parliament that is as wretched as this and, despite everything, worthy of being remembered for what we have done for the [[Caregiver. (Senator Bignami shows signs of emotion. Applause.]] This makes us all proud to be able to say that we have done something, a small step, but something; a sign that, if you want, you can start to solve everyone's problems. Yes, everyone's problems, let's remember: not the problems of the "poor", not those of the unfortunate, because in life either he cures or he cures himself. So, what we have now done will also be for us, the same "noi" that, greeting you, thank you. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-11-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-911.ana.u33	Senator Buccarella is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-11-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-911.ana.u34	Madam President, apart from the very few good things that have entered into this budget law, with shared and unanimously voted amendments, such as what my colleague Mrs Bignami referred to now, most of the provisions and the very establishment of the budget law are critical and there is a need to unveil the lies, the non-truths that are and will be represented by the government and the majority that support it. But my colleagues, more qualified than I, who have followed the work entirely, will be speaking on this. We will do so when we give an explanation of vote. Personally, I would like to use the time available to me to discuss another aspect, which has not been the subject of public debate, namely an escaped danger. So it is good news and I want to be optimistic: the optimism of reason and of taking action. I am speaking of an escaped danger with reference to some parliamentary amendments tabled to the budget law which would have been intended to cause an earthquake in civil justice in this country. An amendment was by the League and was promptly withdrawn, the second amendment, which was put to the vote at the end of the sitting two days ago, would have modified the code of civil procedure by introducing the so-called summary rite as a rite ordinarily applicable to all civil cases that are the responsibility of the monocratic judge (i.e. not decided by the collegial court), which I believe represent 80% of the entire civil litigation. It is a question of civil litigation and of the length of proceedings, even in civil matters, which we talk so much about when we hear, too many times, that there is a need to speed up justice, that the Italian economic system is damaged by inefficient, slow and even unjust justice. Well, it is a pious illusion - because we have to give the benefit of good faith to those who have made amending proposals of this fact - that according to which, by changing the rite, that is, the procedural rules of civil causes, we can obtain a speedy timing. It is only a pious illusion, as has been explained and illustrated by those who, having realized this devastating danger, made their voice heard, once so unanimous: the magistrates (the ANM took a position); the attorney (from the civil chambers to the OCF); the individual practitioners of the law, as well as some citizens (those few who can know how the machine of justice works materially). The amendment put to the vote the day before yesterday, signed by a majority senator, Senator Viceconte, was withdrawn in limine, at the time of the vote, by Senator Vicari with the unique circumstance, which I was able to notice personally, being present at that time in the Budget Committee, of the recalcitrance of the other part of the majority, that is, the Democratic Party: I am referring to Senator Santini who, in hearing of the withdrawal, almost raised by inciting my colleague Vicari not to withdraw it because it was an important amendment. Well, one thing needs to be clear to everyone and I say this not so much to celebrate an escaped danger, because it is now over, at the moment, here in the Senate, but because news of intentions comes from the press, from the Ministry of Justice or members of the Democratic Party not better identified, to propose this amendment - I repeat: devastating and I will try to explain briefly why - perhaps in the other parliamentary passage: it is good that Members (which I do not know if they will be able to make changes on the text of the draft budget law) both by majority and by opposition are well aware that they do not operate this earthquake in civil justice that, as I said, is just an illusion of speeding up civil proceedings. In fact, the neck of the funnel and the delays take place in the decision-making phase and not in the way in which a case is introduced and it is not limiting the powers of defence of the parties in representing the evidence, asking for interrogations and depositing memories that makes the causes not last so long. Statistical data indicate that ordinary cases have an average duration of one thousand two hundred days and those with a summary ritual of six hundred days (this says the ISTAT and the data of the Ministry); there is therefore someone who does not know and in all good faith - I really want to grant it, because I cannot think that there can be a precise will to dismantle the justice system - says: "If those summaries last very little, let's make them summaries, so we save time and finally have a quick civil justice." However, it is easy to understand that by moving millions of civil judgments from one rite to another, with equal resources available and the number of magistrates, chancellors and paper for the available photocopies, we would obtain the devastating effect of ensuring that the judgments introduced with summary rite also last one thousand two hundred days. So be clear to everyone, please, that it is an illusion to think of speeding up justice by working on the code of civil procedure: what is needed is more resources. I know that it is not a happy time when, on the one hand and on the other, there is a need to use more economic resources: I know that. However, we continue to be the country that manages to allocate a much lower fraction of GDP to the voice of justice than other European countries. Please do not touch the codes of civil procedure and, at this point, I would say criminal (but on this I would open another discussion that is not the case here). We try to understand how to improve the justice machine, strengthening and efficiencying the procedures and administration of available human resources, rewarding judges who work better and faster, punishing even more the parties and their lawyers who perhaps incardinate reckless judgments, applying the sentence for reckless expenses in a more decisive way. But let's not touch the codes, with the risk of knocking out an entire system. In the Commission there has been a special circumstance: before our eyes we have seen a majority, represented by the two parties that are part of it, PD and Alleanza Popolare, divided on an amendment of considerable scope. Moreover, it would have been very scandalous if such an impactful change had passed through an amendment among the thousands discussed at night, when proper attention could not be paid and there is no time for further discussion and discussion. Therefore, the danger that has escaped and, please, that it is also such in the House of Deputies. However, this type of amendment, which is clearly of a legal nature, would not have had the financial cover either, because it has escaped the proposers or the agitators of the amendment proposal which would have led to even less revenue in the budget. In fact, gentlemen, the summary ritual is introduced with the halving of the unified contribution: therefore, in the face of millions of cases introduced, there would have been losses in the budget item where they end up what were once called stamps and today unified contributions to begin the cause. More madness that has been escaped. But how could these amendments, I repeat, have been declared admissible by the Presidency of the Budget Commission? This is contrary to other amendments, among which I would like to mention - indeed, I must remind you here - an amendment, also of a procedural and legal nature, which would have changed only four words to a paragraph of an article of the code of civil procedure. It was an amendment to my first signature and signature of other colleagues of the 5 Star Movement, which concerned the interpretation of Article 591 of the Code of Civil Procedure (I say this for those who want to deepen the matter), which is allowing in many Italian courts, in the execution of real estate sales or in bankruptcy, that real estate put at auction, after the fourth auction deserted, i.e. without offers, and after as many drops of the original price estimate, be sold and allocated at a price well below half of the original price estimate, deusing entire real estate assets of citizens and businesses. I have in my hand - and perhaps not even the last - a press article on an entrepreneur in Milan, whose goods have been sold with a decrease of 86 percent, which means that if a good is estimated 100, it is then sold and assigned to 14, with the obvious consequence that the original debt, to the banks for the most part, but also to any other type of creditor, is engraved in a minimal way, if nothing, and the proceeds serves to satisfy the expenses of the procedure. The morale, the end of the story, is that the debtor remains liable, without the house or the enterprise, the creditor does not take a euro and the one who earns it is who wins a good at an extremely vile price, and this is already a damage in itself. When, then, this is accompanied by possible interference or proximity of turbidities in the social sphere or even of the underworld, around the system of real estate auctions, you understand well that we are creating truly unforgivable disasters. How then is it possible that our amendment was declared inadmissible and another amendment, which amends the code of civil procedure, was declared admissible? Of course, I must stigmatize the evaluation criteria of the Presidency of the Budget Commission. What I wanted to call to your attention, I think I said. 11:58 a.m. (Follow BUCCARELLA). I hope that the next Government, who will have the responsibility to preside over the House and Senate Budget Commissions in the next legislature and the majorities that will be formed or the majority that will be formed will have more to heart the reasons I do not say of the citizens, that it seems almost a banality, but of the reasonableness, of the fairness and of not wanting to favor interests of few or even incompetence inconfessible, because if the amendment on the summary rite has been really desired or pushed by powers close to Confindustria or associations of enterprises that believed that, with the summary rite adopted so, the justice was speeded up, then there is a problem of competence, that obviously does not concern those who, almost daily, in the mainstream media, are referred to as the supreme example of incompetence. [[Applause from the M5S Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-11-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-911.ana.u35	Senator Uras is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-11-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-911.ana.u36	Mr President, Parliament is divided into its own committees, as well as its own groups, including its own committees. There are Commissions dealing with matters relating to certain matters and other Commissions, such as the Budget Commission, which have an obligation to deal with the generality of matters. It does so systematically by addressing the problem of legislative measures from the point of view of the application of Article 81 of the Constitution and also and especially when it examines the budgetary manoeuvre. This is not only about a part of the expenditure, the one that can be maneuvered, which every three years, because of the financial compatibility, is intended to devote to this or to that topic which is considered most urgent. The budget maneuver covers all the expenditure of the state, also the lot of revenue and therefore the way in which the resources are drawn and they are called citizens, the system of enterprises and those who work in this country to contribute to the organization of the public machine and to the response to social needs. I say this because we have made progress, in these five years so turbulent from the political point of view, with a majority that does not come out of a clear vote that indicated one of the parties as the winner of the election consultation of the policies of 2013, and that has from time to time composed itself, pooling forces passed through the evaluation of the electorate in an articulated way different from how it then composed itself. And one of the steps forward in this legislature is one of the reforms that concerns public accounting: we make a budget law, no longer a financial law or a law of stability, so overall expenditure and revenue dynamics are addressed in a single regulatory body. This has also been done to give a more comprehensive view and an overview of the whole: this is a maneuver of 850 billion euros, not from 900 million euros of the three-year period, because this is what is described in the tables of the budget and this is the expenditure that the State has to face in order to maintain itself, intervene in the economy, support social interventions, ensure security, tackle international problems, and to allow adequate education to the younger population, that health is protected and that the development of the country's economy and society is adapted to its strength and capacity for production and organization. We do not intervene on a clean slate when a budget law is adopted, but we must stay in the answers already defined. When we talk, for example, about public personnel, Mr President, we are not just referring to the last generation of precarious people, but to all those who have been working in the public machine for decades and who continue to work on it, and therefore the state budget serves to preserve the work of those who have it, it serves to give access to it to those who do not have it, but it also serves to better organize and to give more guarantees to those who have precarious employment. This is the state's budget, and so when you judge the maneuver you can't give it to 900 million spending, rather to 850 billion of state financial commitment, otherwise we tell stories, events that are not related to reality. The world tells us that we have to respond to security, that our law enforcement workers are inadequate and inadequate, but it is because we want to improve, not because the public order system in this country is in the dark, on the contrary, it is one of the best public order systems, as is also one of the best our health protection system. There's no need to do it all over again, and if anyone wants to come here tomorrow to say that everything has to be done again, it means it's in the stage of pure madness. We must be careful, because that is the political reasoning to be put in place when it comes to the budget. If you have guarantees that also allow you to protest when something does not work, it is thanks to the fact that the set works and if we have a health system that has flaws is because we have a health system, not because we do not have it, because if we had to do it from a to a zeta, we would be in a state of despair. [[Applause from the PD Group and Senator Bencini.]] Budgetary maneuver, therefore, is a maneuver that improves, by definition, what is already there. I want to say that because there are some things that, for example, represent a truly innovative achievement. Senator Bignami spoke about it a moment ago, speaking about the question of the assistance and recognition of the function of family members who take care of their most unfortunate relatives, a recognition that for the first time is given, including a figure in the order and formally recognizes its function as a social function. I would like to quote another measure, which seems to be able to pass under silence: we have approved an amendment concerning the procedures for reclamation of polygons throughout Italy, which is exactly, black and white, what must be done to prevent our military, those who defend our country, when they are preparing and are on the field of exercise from risking health. It is the result of very important parliamentary investigations carried out in this and in the previous parliamentary term, especially in the Chamber of Deputies, by the Commission on depleted uranium. Thanks to that work, today we have a body of provisions and financial endowments so that within 180 days from the moment of exercise we proceed to clean up the range to protect the health and the environment of the territories near the range, but above all the health of our military. [[Applause from Senators Bencini and Bignami.]] It is a great achievement that has taken decades to raise awareness and has seen so many soldiers get sick and die very young because of the consequences of the ammunition dealt with. When we talk about these issues, we must know that the armaments and the ammunition they use are made to kill immediately and also over time. And when we're forced to use these kinds of tools, we need to know that those who use them to defend themselves risk so much of their lives. This is the budget law. We have worked very transparently in the Commission, responding to every amendment tabled by the majority and minority, and on the body of expenditure we have mostly closed with the agreement of all, minority and majority. You may then not be satisfied by a certain measure. Very free, but I remember that the votes cast on the major issues were almost unanimous. We have all voted, for example, on the question of polygons, or on the question of the assistance of family members to their most unfortunate relatives. We have had sensitivity and respect for the government's agreement on pensions, and we have voted in favour of it by many. We also had a consideration of reducing the weight of supertickets and tickets, voting on it in a substantial way after a discussion that everyone took part in. I say this because the image of Parliament, of politics and of ourselves must be better measured, because we are not bad and this is not a country at fault. It is a country that resists well and has a future. It is for these reasons that I shall vote in favour of the budgetary manoeuvre we are considering. [[Applause from the PD, AP-CpE-NCD and Mixed Groups]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-11-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-911.ana.u37	He's enlisted to speak Senator Boccardi. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-11-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-911.ana.u38	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Mr Senators, Vice-Minister, these days we have always been told that there are no financial cover. That is the slogan that we have constantly heard repeated during the work of the Commission, while most of our amending proposals were rejected. I mention in particular one of the amendments which I have proposed, and which I have regularly rejected, that for private employers who, since 1 January 2018, had guaranteed the average level of employment recorded over the last five years, so that they could be granted - in our view - the exemption of 25% of the employer's total social security contributions, excluding the premiums and contributions due to INAIL, up to a maximum of EUR 7.000 on an annual basis. I'd like to make you think. It would have been a rule that for the first time would have finally rewarded the diligent companies that, I assure you, despite the prevailing crisis, in the last five years there have been, have guaranteed the economic stability of their employees and, above all, the professionalism of their companies. Or my proposal to support the promotion of forms of entrepreneurship in agriculture, for direct farmers and professional farmers under the age of 40, which is also rejected. These are proposals for concrete aid made by those who know what it is to do business, especially where it is more difficult, i.e. in the South, and how much more important it is to give priority to the real economy than to the accounting alchemies of those who are only concerned with doing homework. However, the maneuver was marked by a continuous stop and go, waiting for the majority of the Government (which - as is clear - no longer exists) to agree and find some understanding on the various points. In our view, this is not the way to enact a budget law; this is not, above all, the way to govern! There are no covers - it has been repeated - as if it really could not be done otherwise. This maneuver, I assure you, is not the result of fate's fatality, as we want to make people believe, looking at Europe, that very Europe which, however, remains very critical of the Government, especially of the powerful increase in public debt in recent years. This maneuver, I said, is the result of a precise political choice or, better, of total inertia, combined with a dramatic lack of ideas, courage and, above all, far-sightedness in the field of economic policy. We have also had an example in the recent tax decree: we have noted with satisfaction that the Government has recognised the validity of our arguments by including an amendment for the introduction of fair compensation. However, the satisfaction was, unfortunately, only partial because if we had moved in time we could have improved the text so that it could fully meet the legitimate expectations of all professional bodies. The freelance professionals and self-employed in Italy are 1.3 million and certainly represent, by number and wealth produced, an indispensable category for the growth of the entire country, while the downward race of the cost of the services inevitably reduces also the quality of the services offered and, consequently, the satisfaction of the citizens. Our commitment, therefore, will continue to extend access to fair compensation to the entire audience of those concerned. Returning to the draft budget bill for 2018 as a whole, as we have already seen, out of a total of around EUR 21 billion, 14.9 billion are destined once again to avoid the application of the VAT increases imposed by Europe to ensure that public accounts are kept. This is the motivation that justifies, according to the Government, a bill of budget written according to those safeguard clauses introduced for a long time to guarantee the respect of the return path of our public accounts. Today the government is asking us to approve a very strict maneuver that follows a narrow path that, as a whole, risks seriously compromising the yet timid signs of recovery in our economy. The delay with which we arrive at this appointment, with this budget law, is the clear proof of the difficulties of the Government in closing the accounts. The delay is doubly guilty because it undermines Parliament's right to hold a serious debate on the text before us. The intention is clear to us: to call on us here for an exhausting work of ratification in the Commission, little more than formal, on a draft budget law which has in fact been discussed and decided elsewhere. Since November 2011, six years of governments, first technical and then center-left, have squandered our international credibility and led Italy to total irrelevance in Europe. The story of the EMA is only the last confirmation in order of time. The economic policy of the center-left has always been inspired by a high tax burden, to satisfy the lucky turnmen who, by chance, are never the Italian families to whom they really devote ridiculous resources. For your part there is the renunciation of any serious public investment policy, it goes on only blindly and the inclusion of the milleproroghe as an amendment in the text of the maneuver is the proven proof that now there is no more time to remedy, there is no more time to plan because there is no more government and only expects the dissolution of the Chambers. Your last act is a maneuver once again the daughter of austerity and that same vision that produced wrong economic policies, which aggravated and lengthened the crisis, further increasing inequalities. Inequalities that will certainly not be reduced by a few electoral tips like the 80 euros. We have also seen inequalities on pensions, for which occupational categories can rightly benefit from them at a lower age, while other occupational categories of the same level, which would also be entitled, unfortunately cannot do so. But we would like to know, by the Government and by the whole majority, whether they have at least made an estimate of the total cost, as well as the impact on public accounts, of the measures taken in recent years to sterilize, from time to time, the famous safeguard clauses. And again, how much have tens of billions weighed and weighed that could not be used in investment, research and development, anti-poverty measures or in other similar ways? Have you ever wondered? And how much is the impossibility of putting in the field of public development policies, since about three quarters of the maneuver are blocked by these clauses? A programme of serious cuts in spending, in our opinion, and targeted investments (not bonuses and rain tips), combined with a work of diplomacy in Europe really determined to call into question these now outdated limits, would have at least represented the worthy counterpart to what you are presenting to us today. And that's why I spoke of a lack of courage, that courage that would be necessary today to admit that it was wrong, with choices that have helped to keep the Italian economy on the stake in recent years, while those of other countries were already starting to march again. But no, the clever escape of accounting tricks was preferred to bravery. How else to define the government's choice to move spending commitments from 2019 onwards that would have the greatest impact, in a country where youth unemployment is already almost 36% today? Let me give you an example (but I could do a lot of it by going through the articles of this maneuver): you have decided to allocate EUR 100 million per year for sustainable mobility. An important sum, which can unleash considerable potential in a future-looking sector, both for the creation of high-skilled jobs, as well as in terms of industrial policies and the environment. So, with the loyalty proper to a force of constructive opposition, we should applaud you. Too bad, though, that's not the case: the 100 million per year is expected from 2019 to 2033. For 2018, the estimated amount is zero. This was just one example, but I could cite others, such as the commitments to recruit new researchers in universities and public research institutions, which is also implied. But time's up. In a few weeks' time the power to decide will finally come back into the hands of the citizens who will be able to judge and choose. Especially from the South, I assure you, that you have forgotten, we expect a great push for change: we are sure that the Italians will reward Forza Italia and the center-right as the only serious and credible response to the failures of the left. [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-11-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-911.ana.u39	Senator Ferrara is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-11-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-911.ana.u40	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to highlight the measures relating to structural interventions in the field of cultural heritage, measures which have given the 7th Senate Commission the opportunity to intervene with proposals which have been considered to be improvements and, therefore, accepted in an amending phase. A good work of interlocution with the Government, and for this I thank the rapporteurs, the Deputy Minister Morando, but also all the colleagues of the 7th The Commission has also launched an important team game with the other branch of Parliament, to which next week the task of continuing the examination will pass. This budget law also confirms MIBACT's commitment to restructuring the internal structure and strengthening human resources. With this additional measure, 200 additional recruitments, we arrive at a thousand recruitments which, however, still constitute a piece, equal to about two thirds, compared to an even more ambitious path of recruitments and stabilisations. Other measures are taken to extend contracts indefinitely, to stabilise (with a parliamentary amendment) and to give greater flexibility in the use of professional figures useful for programming by museums and archaeological sites. The implementation of the contingent of the Carabinieri specialized in the field of cultural goods, as well as an additional resource for the ancillary performance from the extraordinary, go in this direction. The resource for the European Year of Heritage is important. 2018 will be a great opportunity for Italy and the European Union to promote cultural diversity, intercultural dialogue and social cohesion; to strengthen the contribution of Europe's cultural heritage to sustainable development, which takes place through the strengthening of cultural and creative sectors, including small and medium-sized enterprises (just on medium-sized enterprises has not been accepted an amendment, which we hope will pass to the House); for the promotion of cultural heritage, as an essential element of relations between the European Union and other countries. In this sense I also mention the paragraph concerning the confirmation of the funds for the Capital of Culture: we know about Mantova and Pistoia and we wait, in 2019, Matera as European capital. They are all important operations aimed at giving a change to the cities and the surrounding territory with total interventions. It is very important - and I cannot fail to express great satisfaction in this regard - after the adoption of the law on cinema and audiovisual and the new code of the show, the content of paragraph 13 of Article 39, which extends VAT facilitated to 10% to write contracts related to all performances: VAT reduction is therefore applied even when the transactions of related contracts are carried out by an intermediary. This is a measure much awaited by the world of entertainment, which completes the many contained in the Act on Show. It is a measure that the 7th Commission, in a resolution adopted unanimously in 2015, of which I was rapporteur, had already indicated to the Government, which we have repeatedly proposed and on which an agenda was also presented when examining the measure on live entertainment: I am sure that the world of performing arts has received it with great attention and satisfaction. Unfortunately, since then - and I have seen it for many years - the tax deduction for families with minor children who attend music or theater courses cannot be given instead. We tried to narrow down the field to start an experiment, which could have been useful for the future, offering data that we do not have. There were many amendments to this effect by all political forces. It is a matter of overcoming an inequality of treatment between sport and culture. With this, of course, I express satisfaction with the attention to the world of sport contained in Article 40 of the measure under consideration, but the request for tax deduction for the frequency of courses, made for years by many stakeholders, is a measure to combat educational poverty, it is a support to the family, but it is also a support to the third sector, it is a way to regulate the constellation of private social providers, which offers our children not only sport, but also fundamental experiences on artistic and performing languages. I therefore call for a different solution to be found when examining the measure in the Chamber of Deputies. However, we must stress that in this draft budget law a great step has been taken on the subject of reading, which brings with it the possibility, for girls and children, from the earliest years of life, to build their own imagination. The reading fund managed by the Centre for Book and Reading, of EUR 3 million in structural terms, is a great opportunity to counter a phenomenon which we find widely documented and which - we cannot hide from it - is of considerable seriousness. The crisis of reading and book is no longer a contingent one, but a structural one and must be dealt with by a framework law, which is already at the stage of the 7th Chamber Commission: it is a law that deals with the whole chain, from literary production to publishing, to the support of reading also in public places, such as libraries. For this theme a great role has the family, as well as the school. This year 500 innovative libraries have been activated by the Ministry of Education, University and Research (MIUR) and 500 more are coming, but it should also be stressed that Legislative Decree No. 60 of 2017 promoting humanistic culture, which was conceived in the 7th Senate Commission, provides for a Plan of the Arts, which includes among the areas of creativity precisely that of creative writing. On the other hand, the so-called 18App, the culture charter for eighteen-year-olds, which in this budget maneuver is made structural, tells us that 70% of the expenditure is directed to books, of course also of text and of course also e-book. A measure entitled tax credit for bookshops, i.e. a tax credit in the field of the sale of books in crisis for years, has therefore been included in the amending phase, responding mainly to libraries that do not appear to be included in publishing groups (up to 20,000 euros) and half to libraries managed directly by publishing groups. These measures, together with the art bonus to public libraries, which therefore see together the MIUR and the Ministry of Cultural Heritage and Activities and Tourism (MIBACT), immerse a change in a country like Italy, which for decades, after the war, has managed to mature an increasingly important consumption of books and which since 2010 knows instead a regression. Many points to think about, but certainly an objective to be pursued with attention to everything: a framework law that I hope can be achieved in the next legislature, as has been done for other sectors of the Ministry of Culture. I read only one sentence from a 2016 report on publishing: Young people are all very familiar with technologies, but those who come from families where cultural consumption was limited to how much flowed from screens end up making almost autistic use of them. It means that e-books are fine, devices are fine, but we also have to go back to the book in its materiality. Nobody wants to combat new technologies and this is also evident from the conclusions of a resolution, approved in the Bicameral Commission for Children and Adolescence, on the rights to the use of heritage, which recognizes that technological tools are important, but also recognizes the limitations of devices and the importance of materiality, of doing with thinking hands, integrating body and mind. I would like to close, Mr President, by recalling another important impulse which we colleagues from the Committee on Children and Adolescence have gathered and which has had a positive path thanks to the attention of the Government: I am referring to the dear leaders, the eighteen-year-olds who see their paths completed outside the family and - as we can imagine - are unable, in the vast majority, to live a dimension of complete autonomy. An important intercourse with their network - and here the web takes on great value, because it unites and strengthens the demands for the liability of rights - has enabled us to get in touch with them and to sign an important amendment together with my colleague Mattesini and my colleague Zampa of the Chamber of Deputies, vice president of the bicameral commission for childhood and adolescence: this fund of 20 million for three years has the merit not only to give an answer to the need for accompaniment towards autonomy until the 21st year, but also gives way to intervention policies to experiment with the best practices in support of these teenagers, even if hailers, who have the right to self-determination, an impossible right if not supported, so that they terminate their paths of study and integration into work. I shall close by mentioning the important intervention contained in the draft law on the right to study, which can be traced back to the speech I have just made, improved by an amendment approved in the night. I would also like to highlight all the measures aimed at schools, especially universities, high musical and artistic training and research, contained in the measure and introduced also on the basis of amendments adopted. For this I thank the Government once again, and in particular the Deputy Minister. In this context, too, I am responding to constructive interlocations between the Senate and the other branch of Parliament, at the level of the Education Committees and the Culture Commission, in aspects that are very dear to us, such as the provision of reinforcement in childhood school. I also hope that we will also have a good response to the work that will be done in the House. [[Applause from the PD Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-11-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-911.ana.u41	Senator Gatti is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-11-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-911.ana.u42	Mr President, I will leave a more general reflection on the draft budget law to those who are later speaking to my group, and I will concentrate on the issues on which I have worked most in relation to work. In our draft law we can identify four groups of interventions: the first relates to employment and interventions to encourage recruitment of young people in particular conditions; another is intervention on welfare; then there is a set of rules, variously scattered in various articles, relating to social shock absorbers and stabilisation and, finally, there is something about active policies. Mr President, I would like to make one premise: we are coming out - and we still do not see any signs of improvement - from a very serious situation that has involved us for ten years and that, on the issues of work, has caused conditions of extreme discomfort and a segmentation of the audience of workers with pockets of great suffering and risks of isolation and lowering of protection in many situations. Let us see how the budget law fits into this context, with still very heavy data - I repeat - from the employment point of view, despite some elements that I hope will start the process towards a solution. I would therefore start to think about this. We have a situation for employed workers which at the moment leads to an explosion of time contracts and a very relative presence of permanent contracts. If you look at situations, there is an explosion of part-time contracts: it is an involuntary part-time, often forced, with a very strong presence of women. The interventions provided for in this draft budget law for the promotion of recruitment are articulated in this way: the social security contributions for private employers are reduced for recruitment with permanent employment contract, carried out from 1 January 2018 in favour of subjects between thirty and thirty-five years, a reduction that lasts at most thirty-six months, with 3,000 euros on an annual basis. There is also the possibility for some regions to introduce complementary measures. For self-employment, on the other hand, there are interventions which provide for a three-year contribution exemption for direct farmers and farmers under the age of 40. There is also one last measure envisaged, namely the reduction of the contribution relief for the shipping companies. This is action from an occupational point of view. The characteristic that we observe is that an intervention of this type, very partial, with a reduction of the contributions without any kind of sanction and control so that there are no layoffs at the end of the contributions, is causing in our country - we have signals every day - a terrible segmentation within the audience of the workers, making it even more difficult to find employment for entire groups of workers. There was a situation of abandonment. I ask you to reflect on what may have happened to the workers between thirty and fifty years of age at this time: I am talking about those who do not have incentives for recruitment, because over fifty years another series of measures is foreseen, and the forty years olds of our country that have the strongest difficulties. I think that this should guide the measures of a government; instead, we repeat this type of segmentation again, we increase it and, by inserting some elements, we make the whole system much more rigid. I shall then make another series of comments, Mr President, but now I would like to talk about how we are going to intervene on the subject of pensions. There seemed to be historical intervention, but then, as I say, the mountain gave birth to a mouse and the mouse isn't even so well. What we have had is what we have: a one-year extension, from 31 December 2018 to 31 December 2019, of the voluntary EPA experimental institute. Mr President, I am talking about the special pension which allows, under certain conditions, to retire three years before the expiry date, by activating a mortgage, guaranteed by the Government for a number of situations, which workers will return during the retirement period. Then there is the reorganization of certain requirements for access to the social EPA, and this is the other story: in addition to the voluntary EPA, we also have the social EPA, which in certain situations allows workers to retire early without having to pay their pension for these three years. We were faced with very particular situations because, as the measure was written, many questions were rejected by the INPS. Today, with the draft budget law in our examination, we try to reset certain requirements and rewrite them in such a way as to make access possible. Then there's the grain. Six months of additional contributions for women, for each child up to a maximum of two years, but only in the case of women who qualify to join the social EPA, and not as a general rule of the social security system. Mr President, women in this country do not see their work of care or reproductive work recognised from the point of view of social security. Such a partial and limited intervention is very worrying. The women of this country have been insisting for years; I am thinking of all the experimentation so far carried out, for example the option of women, which has been blocked. I think a reflection should be made, such as that made just now by Senator Bignami, and that should lead us to more meek advice. It should be understood that intervention can never be sectoral, specific and partial, because it generates expectations and conflicts. With an amendment from the Government, there was an intervention in relation to certain specific categories, in order not to increase the retirement age, old age and seniority by five months in 2019. Mr President, this is the outline. We are saying that for some specific categories, which we have identified in farmers, fishermen and others (there are fifteen, that is eleven plus four that have been added), we do not count the five months of increase for life expectancy in 2019. This means that in 2021 life expectancy will start again for these categories. It is not a structural measure over time, as it was not a six-month measure for women: only for women in the social EPA. At this point, there is no possibility that the social EPA will apply to persons of the four new categories included in the list. It was said: there are no resources, the House will take care of it. Let's hope so, but I think these delays are never reasonable. In this case too, among other things, there are problems about how the measure was written, because we risk that to access this type of intervention there are difficulties like those of the social EPA. There are ambiguities: we are talking about years of work, while we know that some of the categories included - I am thinking of agriculture - work on days (for agricultural workers there are 102 days that define a year of work). What do we do? Will the INPS send another circular of those in which the application is referred? They have accepted an agenda, so we hope that we will take action. However, we must think not only of the latest governments, but also of how much previous governments have invested in decontribution and how this mechanism has not worked, especially without controls. Let's think about what would have happened if this figure had been employed in direct productive investments, made by the public, with the possibility to reactivate the development in Italy with a direct intervention of the public that dealt with the issues of restructuring, reorganization and care of the territory, involving directly the local authorities. Mr President, the fundamental point is the retraining and upgrading of work. We had proposed a series of interventions, such as the reintegration of the causality to limit the intervention of time contracts. Even if we want to adopt the practice of incentives, which are at least given to full-time and indeterminate contracts, given the increase in part-time contracts. But the fundamental point is this: we have a situation in the workplace that is degenerating. We have seen all the workers of Amazon: it is a situation in which we return to the very old terrorism, with the parcelling and the very strong rhythms to which it is impossible to escape. We have also seen the workers involved in the Castelfrigo meat chain, in Modena, which are the obvious representation of the exploitation of work in our day. These are mainly foreign workers, who are forced to work in a state of hallucination and who are subject to forms of exploitation on which action should be taken. Mr President, it is also a shame for traineeships and we have tried to do something. [[Call the president back.]] Let me give you one last thought with regard to the social security allowance. In Italy we have a measure that covers the poor elderly. At this moment there is a risk that, at the beginning of 2018, poor elderly people in this country will have to wait a year and seven months longer to access the social allowance, because life expectancy is also counted for them. This is ridiculous, because they impact not on the social security system, but on general taxation and have no contact with contributions. Mr President, we have tried to speak on this, but we have been told no. In the same way, we tried to say that we were doing the ninth safeguard. Above all, Mr President, there has been no intervention on the fundamental core of the pension system. At the moment we have to deal with the problem of young, and no longer young, generations who will retire after discontinuous work with a hunger pension. We've been thinking about it. There are the overassessment of contributions and the possibility of a guarantee pension. You have to choose, start experimenting and do it. It is for this reason, Mr President, that we will also be close at this stage (in fact, intervention and consultation with the trade union will be essential) to all the mobilizations in the country. In fact, we think the biggest risk is to leave the workers alone. We need to show clearly the need for care, protection and social justice for the workers of this country and, above all, for the whole of Italy. [[Applause from the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-11-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-911.ana.u43	Senator Perrone is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-11-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-911.ana.u44	Mr President, representatives of the Government, ladies and gentlemen, it was foreseeable that the last budget law of this legislature would be used by the Government in view of the election campaign for the next parliamentary elections. It is a temptation to which even the Silver Gentile Government has not been able to give up. We must recognise that some of the measures provided for in this draft law have met expectations, especially of the business world. However, we must be able to distinguish between the economic measures necessary for the country and those which are nothing but mirrors for the laodles that must hide what the Commission has not done or has done wrong. Bonuses can be favored by the public, but they are certainly part of those policies that the government can use to appear in the media showcase and convince the public of its good intentions. Once again, it has been an overall vision of the economic and social situation of the country that, without forcing, is able to suggest the priorities that must be pursued. The value of this maneuver is just over EUR 20 billion, but the coverage that the Commission has found amounts to EUR 9.5 billion (less than half of the resources it would need) and, of these, about EUR 15 billion need to cover the safeguard clauses for the commitments made with Brussels. In practice, we have a draft budget law that increases the debt and removes the country from the budget balance that we have guaranteed the European Union to reach by 2019. Press indiscretions, among other things, speak of a possible corrective maneuvering of public accounts, not less than EUR 5 billion, to be approved in spring. This means that the Renzi-Gentiloni Government will have to straighten out its accounts. Silveri has put out of control will be a commission that will be for the next tenants of Palazzo Chigi. The watchword that has characterized the work of this majority in five years is to postpone; to postpone, year after year, the most difficult decisions to leave to others the burden of finding solutions that at the passage of time become less and less practicable. If we look at this draft law, we realize that the many sanctified measures in favour of companies are contradicted - for example - by the postponement of corporate income tax, the entry into force of which is postponed by one year, to 2019: a decision that will result in the failure to reduce the tax burden on companies, estimated at about 2 billion euros, which concerns a audience of 250,000 beneficiaries; a major damage, if we consider that the companies had planned their business strategies knowing that they can count on the entry into force of this discipline, which the Government has practically snatched from their hands. Two billion represents a huge amount if we compare - for example - this manoeuvre with the refinancing of the Sabatini law, for which, in the three years 2018-2020, total 330 million euros are allocated. There are, then, the delayed promises, as happened for the training costs of the personnel covered by the Industry Plan 4.0, for which an expenditure of 250 million euros was authorised, once again from 2019. These are criticisms, not only made by the parties of the parties opposed to the line of government, but coming directly from Brussels. Well you could, at this point, immediately introduce the web tax to finance the tax breaks or reductions to our companies. It should be remembered that in less than fifteen days two warnings came from the European Commission. The Vice President of the European Commission, with delegation to financial stability, reminded Italy that, with his past manoeuvres, he exhausted his margin of action with regard to the flexibility clause for structural reforms and investment. However, the signal of danger launched by the Finnish Vice President with delegations to employment, growth, investment and competitiveness, according to which the data clearly show that the Italian Government has deviated from the medium-term objectives. Above all, he said: The only thing I can say in my name is that all Italians should know what the real economic situation in Italy is. Without a twist, the Vice President of the European Commission said that the Italian Government is hiding from the Italians the uncomfortable truth about public finances, that is, it is lying to its citizens. This is a serious accusation, to which President Gentiloni Silveri responds with an optimism out of place, promoting the idea of an Italy that can be serene, since it is now outside the crisis. Our economy has begun to show us positive signs, but only because it is benefiting from the effects of a general and constant recovery that affects the whole of Europe. Another thing is to say that we left the crisis behind. At this stage, it is particularly necessary to pay attention to those economic sectors which have struggled to restart and which have so far received little attention from the legislator. I am referring to the freelancers, the so-called people of VAT consignments, who are virtually absent in this draft budget law, and their exclusion from the investment benefit for Industry 4.0 is an example of this. As the Italian Directorate, we have asked for corrective measures, by tabling amendments, which have not been accepted or discussed. The tourism and culture sectors would also have deserved to be the protagonists of this manoeuvre; an opportunity that could have turned into an opportunity for the South, which has not yet found the way to enhance the immense cultural and landscape richness of its territory. We are not talking about the local government sector, which is still suffocated at the expense of the unsuspecting citizens by absurd public finance constraints, which depress current spending on services to families and the weakest groups and also block investments to virtuous entities. The country awaits a signal that it announces a radical reversal in terms of priorities and attitudes that restore credibility to politics. The amendment tabled and approved by the PD majority, which allocated EUR 6 million over three years for carnival events, appears to be very unbelievable in this context. I am about to conclude, Mr President, with a reflection: a healthy state puts its citizens in a position to have opportunities that can become the basis on which to build a path of life, not a fixed-term bonus. In this respect, it is necessary to guarantee young people the right to work. But it is also important to teach them to think in the right way, to walk on their own legs and not consider the State as a crutch to cling to. One of the greatest Italian journalists, Indro Montanelli, once said: The State gives a job, the private enterprise gives a job. It is not a play on words, but it is a distinction that represents the future, which we have a duty to achieve. [[Applause from the LAG groups (DI, GS, PPI, RI) and FL (ID-PL, PLI)]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-11-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-911.ana.u45	Senator Romani Maurizio is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-11-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-911.ana.u46	Mr President, Mr Vice-Minister, ladies and gentlemen, I agree that - as Senator Uras said - hundreds of billions of euros should be transferred to the budget law and that everyone would like the amendments they are tabling to be accepted. But we know perfectly well that the blanket, being a little short, pleases someone and displeases someone else. I am taking advantage of the debate on the budget law to talk mainly about health, because I would like it to be clear in this House that health is a central asset in the life of the individual, in order to be a full citizen. It can be of particular value in times of economic crisis such as the one we are trying to leave behind with difficulty. It is precisely the economic crisis that has brought out a phenomenon such as health poverty, unimaginable in a country that has one of the best national health services: that is, there are people who cannot treat themselves, because they lack the necessary economic resources, who cannot buy the necessary drugs or undergo specialist examinations. The impoverishment of families due to health costs is an increasingly important reality in today's society, as is their indebtedness to cope with health costs. That is why I have called for the abolition of the superticket to be approved. Inequality of health is increasing, which is one of the most serious social injustices. The crisis and health poverty can then also lead to a change in the path of treatment: prevention is no longer done and medical visits and controls are avoided until it can no longer be done without, with consequences both of an economic type and on the possibilities of healing and management of the disease, at an individual and collective level. Health is increasingly shown as a social fact, as well as a biological one. Therefore, it is necessary to recognise and study factors and actors outside the mere medical field. The time has come to reflect on how the idea of health and disease has changed, in the light of ongoing social changes and epidemiological changes, which see more and more individuals suffering from chronic degenerative diseases, who need adequate health equipment. This concerns first of all the individual's ability to manage the new sick state, as the disease will be less and less an extraordinary situation and more and more a reality with which to deal, especially for the elderly. The changes taking place in the health system, the increasingly active role of the citizen in the choice of care, the presence of chronic, degenerative and rare diseases, starting from cancer, encourage us to reflect on the new issues related to health and disease. Health inequalities are one of the most important forms of social injustice. The increase in life expectancy involves a strong interest on the part of public decision-makers in health determinants and on what actions to take to prevent diseases, starting with chronic diseases, which are currently one of the greatest challenges for the sustainability of health systems. Health is a fundamental right for the individual and for the community. Only if the individual enjoys good health can he be a full citizen and exercise all the social roles that he is called to play in the course of life. It is a concept of health, which emerges from sociological studies, in line with the definition given by the World Health Organization, according to which health is a state of complete physical, mental and social well-being and not simply the absence of the state of illness or infirmity, to which various social determinants contribute. It is therefore up to the public institutions to decline this definition into health policy measures. That's what I've been trying to make clear since I've been in the Senate. In the debate in recent years the concept of health also emerges as a common good. According to this meaning, both the individual and the public decision-makers are actors with equal dignity. Health as a common good is considered an asset to be pursued through targeted actions and protection systems that all individuals see at the centre. Health as a common good requires the implementation of information and training processes, with a view to the establishment of a mass scientific consciousness and a high number of competent citizens able to dialogue and count - also on the ground of priority choices - with institutional actors for the planning and management of health policy actions. Moreover, it is a recent belief that the environment is not simply a fact, but that it acts as a decisive factor in the lives of individuals and the community. This we owe above all to a doctor of the work, Giulio Alfredo Maccacaro, who in the early seventies played a central role in the development of the sociology of health, focusing his research on the environmental and working causes that affect the health and disease of the workers. He places prevention, real prevention, namely to identify, combat and determine the causes of disease and mortality; but also the development of groups within the workplaces capable of activating phases of research, study and fight on their hygienic and environmental conditions; and finally the recovery of subjectivity in the relationship with health care, the refusal of any repressive role and control by medicine. Here the quality of life and lifestyles and, therefore, the environment as an essential element take on a significant weight. Often the student's gaze will not go down the etiological chain that from the sick arrives, upstream, up to the causes of his condition within the social system, revealing the responsibilities, but will stop well before having to question it. Social justice can be taught, especially by beginning to live and apply it, by empowering students and promoting an environment in which one can critically reflect on medical issues, on the social and political role of the health profession, on how to enable the future professional to critically analyze the role that the social structure has in determining health and its unequal distribution within a population. All this is aimed at making no longer a graduate bearer of a title without competence, but an operator prepared and ready to be effective in the social reality that is entrusted to him. Mr Vice-Minister and colleagues, what I hope to do with this speech, which appears to be removed from the issues dealt with in the draft budget law that we are going to vote on - on which I say from now on that Italy of Values will vote in favour - is that in your conscience you make these my reflections yours, because I believe that they are the basis of the construction of a better society. It should be borne in mind that in a study conducted in 26 countries of the European Union, between 1970 and 2007, it has been shown that the rise in unemployment is associated with the increase in suicides and murders; alcohol poisoning, psychiatric diseases, cirrhosis of the liver and ulcers are definitely growing. More and more people turn to food banks, which are a symptom of a nutritional emergency, since families turn to them as a last and extreme resource. The continuous increase in food prices means that people reduce the consumption of fruit and vegetables in favor of cheaper foods (very sweet, or very salty, very fat and precooked), with the result that they increase diabetes and obesity and all the pathologies related to them. I believe that all those who will be sitting in these classrooms to legislate, whatever political background they may be, will have to put these issues first on the list of parliamentary work. I very much hope that by doing so, in the next budget law, health care is not treated like an ATM, but is a place to invest resources to be managed with criteria to eliminate health inequalities. [[Applause from Senator Bencini.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-11-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-911.ana.u47	Senator Cappelletti is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-11-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-911.ana.u48	Mr President, I believe that this budget law will be remembered to be probably the last and most dramatic example of an assault on diligence. In fact, there was money for everyone. There has been money for the political parties; Senator Sposetti has been trying for a year, as if public funding for the parties were not enough, with over 2 billion collected since, in 1993, with a referendum, the majority of voters had said that it should not be there. We saw then a miracle of Senator Santini - I thank him because he is listening - who managed to get to condone the so-called regasifiers the burden of paying the IMU. And this will lead to a saving of about 40 million euros; therefore lower revenues for the State for about 40 million euros exclusively with reference to three or four companies that, in part, are not even Italian. We have seen amendments that provide funding for associations and foundations close to this or that Member. And Senator Pezzopane teaches. There was even the much more serious and important attempt, which fortunately did not succeed, to assign a few billion more - as if they needed it - to the motorway dealers, who have the public concession without competition and who notoriously finance the policy. And the public concession without invitation to tender and the financing of the policy cannot fail to have a cause-effect link. With the extension of the so-called in house, this has been modified. We are delighted, even if this has happened after three changes of opinion by the majority, who first said that they were against it, then for it and then against it. I mean, there has been money for everyone, Mr President, but there is no money for savers cheated by the People of Vicenza and the Veneto Bank. On bank cracs and savers who have been involved, it will be said: all right, they have remained involved, but what is the responsibility of the policy? The responsibility lies with those who managed those banks. In part, that is true. There have been crimes that are being investigated by the authorities: crime of exercise and obstacle to vigilance. But they would not have been enough to accomplish what was done. The unfaithful bankers will get away with it, because the reform of the statute of limitations has not been made in this parliamentary term so that they can get away with it. They had a hand from the supervisory authorities, the Bank of Italy and CONSOB. We saw it in the bicameral investigation committee. We're losing our responsibilities. And then there are the responsibilities of politics, starting with the decree for the Venetian popular banks that made it impossible for the swindled savers to go to the courts for compensation because the bank is not there. The healthy part of the bank, in fact, was given to Banca Intesa and in the so-called bad bank there is nothing to attack. So even if a magistrate says that they are right and have the right to compensation because they have been cheated, the politics, this majority and this government have taken away the possibility for the swindled citizens to have the right. And let's not talk about a few euros. Deputy Minister Morando, those citizens have lost 11 billion euros. In the past I have seen, when we discussed interventions in favour of the banking system, that allocating billions of euros for public finance has never been a problem, even for tens of billions of euros. The only so-called popular saving decree in Veneto, which in reality did not save an accident, saved the so-called interbank fund for the protection of deposits and, therefore, the system of banks from pulling out of their own pocket within seven working days, because this provides for the law, the 13 billion contained in the current accounts and deposits accounts. This has been a saving, an important consequence. Who is the beneficiary of this miracle? Once again the banking system. For the citizens and the 210,000 families reduced on the pavement you envisage the allocation of 25 million euros. It is 0.45 percent of the figure lost thanks to the decree on the popular Venetians. It's humiliation. It is the mountain that had been announced even by the secretary of the Democratic Party Renzi when he went to Veneto. He said not to worry and acknowledged that he had made a mistake, promising to set up a fund to raise from the big problems created especially in Veneto, but throughout Italy. The mountain gave birth to a mouse, by the way, tiny. Some say that, however, it is a beginning and that a fund was established that was not there before. This is a significant novelty. We take note of that. My colleagues in the Commission have taken note of this. Vice Minister Morando, I remember, however, that the 2006 financial law had already established a fund for savers who were victims of financial fraud, which could have been safely activated if there had been, however, political will. Alternatively, you could have converged on the 5 Star Movement amendment. The amendment provided for a much more important fund of EUR 4 billion, but without weighing anything on public finances and public accounts. Mr President, we were going to draw on a small part of the resources that this majority and this government granted to the banking system in this parliamentary term. Well, you didn't want to do that. You'll take responsibility for it. The fund established, the so-called fund of financial refreshment, is also difficult to implement - as if that were not enough - because it provides for the need for a judgment passed in court. I wonder: who should savers sue? People of Vicenza and Veneto Bank are no longer there. Since July 2017, the referee of financial disputes does not accept or discuss any more appeals against the popular Venetians. Wanting to try anyway, something positive maybe we can also find and say it. I quote a couple of points. The first is that a fund - good or bad - has been established. We will be able to work on it further in the House but, more likely, in the next parliamentary term. This, of course, if - and only if - this majority changes. But if the majority will be the same, then the political orientation will be the same: to ignore that a fund for the victims of financial crac was already there. They ignored him. It's been in existence since 2006 and it's 2017. The aim is to ignore, indeed to vote against those amendments which, like mine, but not just mine, could have closed down that sad chapter which saw the policy really involved in the tragedy of 210,000 families. The second aspect is that this fund is, however, the recognition of the responsibility of politics and, in particular, the responsibility of the majority, which played a leading role in aggravating what were already critical situations of savers cheated in bank cracs. You gave a drop of water to those who, even because of you, found themselves having to walk through the desert. We will try to amend the text in the House because, Mr President - as is well known - with confidence in the Senate we will not be able to table amendments in this House. And we know it won't be easy to change it in the House. This government, at the beginning of the legislature, has always declared itself, consistently, strong with the weak and weak with the strong. And on this occasion he was consistent with himself. To the weakest, the citizens and the conned savers, at this point we will deal with the next government, if the citizens feel that they will give us this responsibility. The fund, Mr President, will feed it by deleting the dozens of brands, gifts and condones you have introduced into this shameful budget law. So, with one measure, we will do two acts of justice for the country, for the savers and for the swindled citizens. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-11-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-911.ana.u49	There is a representation of students and teachers from the Institute of Higher Education (Enrico Fermi) in Sarno, in the province of Salerno, to whom we address our greetings. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-11-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-911.ana.u50	Colleagues, evaluating the progress of the discussion and in the light of the convocations of the Permanent Commissions and the bicameral Commissions, I suspend the sitting until 16.30. (The sitting was suspended at 13.20 a.m. and resumed at 16.32 a.m.) She's enlisted to speak Senator Pezzopane. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-11-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-911.ana.u51	Mr President, as mentioned by the rapporteur, Magda Zanoni, and supported by other colleagues, this - and I also confirm this in my speech - is a very important draft budget law, not only because it is the draft budget law that concludes this legislature, but because it acts - and positively - in continuity with many initiatives included in other legislative instruments and innovates in many areas. My colleague, Mrs Parente, stressed the innovations that have taken place in the field of labour policies and, in particular, initiatives aimed at young people and their integration into the world of work. I would add the important social initiatives. This morning Mrs Bignami spoke for a long time and with energy on the caregiver, a strong and important initiative that innovates a principle, that of the recognition, once and for all, of the irreplaceability of the care work that is carried out in the family for the benefit of very needy people. I would add the work done in the Budget Commission and point out the important amendment for orphans of victims of feminicide and many other good initiatives. These are important initiatives requested and awaited: I am thinking of the measure that has been introduced to reform a law - I am referring to the Fornero law - which everyone considers unfair - even those that had to vote on it - but which few in this legislature have tried to fill in content to change it in substance. I would also like to remind you of the many measures taken on exodus and exodus, which, together with the social EPA and the inclusion of categories to be exempted from the obligations of Fornero, present an important reformative action of the law. These interventions are the result of valuable and important work done first in the Government's text, but then by the Commission. But even in this case, as happened with the tax decree, I have seen a twofold attitude of some senators in particular, belonging to certain political forces, ready to support their own proposed or reported amendments, and then, once they have arrived in the Chamber, to deny the valuable work done in the Commissions, as if in those seats there had in no way been shared and placed some issues carried out also by the forces that represent the opposition today. In the speeches, therefore, we feel harsh and indefatigable, which we have frankly not heard in the Commission. I believe that the initiatives and proposals shared by the rapporteur and the Commission are also important and significant, which are still addressing further problems in the areas that are experiencing the tragic post-an earthquake and reconstruction. I take the opportunity to tell - especially to the political forces and political representatives of the territories that have repeatedly highlighted the need, obviously shared by me, for a further extension of the suspension of taxes - that yesterday I had to face a very difficult moment in my city, together with all the mayors and the productive categories. In fact, the cold and cynical communication from the European Commission has come in asking the eagle companies to return the amounts relating to taxes suspended in post 2009, almost ten years after the earthquake. Since then, in 2009, the type of measure adopted by the Italian Parliament in Abruzzo and for the earthquake was not met, hundreds of millions of companies are now being asked for as a result of the non-negotiation of the measure, which probably means the use of redundancies by these companies, the setting-up of Cassa Integrazione and the closure of companies. In short, the European infringement procedure, as a result of those errors, now falls like a cleaver on the heads of companies and citizens of the seismic crater. On this occasion too, I ask those who represent the Government to support the work that the Region has put on the field together with the whole network of companies, because it is not our territory (and therefore we) to pay the mistakes of those who then governed and did not think to take appropriate and appropriate measures that would not cause us to incur European infringements. However, in this draft budget law we are back to intervene for L'Aquila and for the seismic crater, as well as that of the earthquake of 2016 and 2017. I take this opportunity to explain a point that relates to a very useful and important amendment of mine, which has been the subject of a fake news by some representatives of the 5 Star Movement, from which I expect an apology for the incredible behavior they have had. The amendment to the budget law presented by me supports the financing of a high-level university education school, the Gran Sasso Science Institute (GSSI): it is a high-education public school, established by law, in which they teach Nobel Prize winners and which recently, at the inauguration of the academic year, saw the lectio magistralis proper of the one who was awarded the Nobel Prize in 2017 as coordinator of the great global discovery of gravitational waves, which changed the field of world physics. I heard and had to read that Pezzopane proposes to increase the GSSI, called private university school - but there are no private university schools in this field - and it is still said that this indignant thing is not only because the contribution is financed by reducing the university fund for the public university for a corresponding amount, but because it is done in L'Aquila, which is defined as my electoral garden. First of all, I would like to say that, being a public university, it can only be financed by public funds, and that L'Aquila is not an electoral garden, but a city in extreme suffering that this Government and this Parliament have taken on by solving in recent years, with effort, energy and resources, many of the problems they had inherited. I also remember that the reconstruction of the city goes also through choices of direction that bring in the cities and territories affected by the earthquake initiatives of great scientific profile. I inform you that this budget law not only deals with the GSSI, but also with a seat of the MAXXI National Museum, because we believe that science, culture, school and training are among the most important elements to ensure that areas affected by the earthquake or natural disasters have a true reconstruction, not only of homes, but also of personal identities, work paths and economic balance. I take this opportunity to address the representative of the Government, hoping that the transition to the Chamber will be able to respond positively to an amendment I proposed, also signed by my colleague Bonfrisco and by other colleagues from other political forces, which pushes for a solution regarding the rapid and immediate safety of the Abruzzo highways, subjected to a load of violence of the seismic movement that has unfortunately made it of the insecure highways. It is urgent to resolve this problem and I hope that the beginning of the response that was being sought will find a solution to the House. [[Applause from the PD Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-11-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-911.ana.u52	She's registered to speak Senator Vicari. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-11-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-911.ana.u53	Mr President, representative of the Government, ladies and gentlemen, I would first like to thank all those who have worked hard these days to bring this measure to the House today. I am referring to all the members of the Budget Commission, in particular President Tonini and the representative of the Government, Deputy Minister Morando. The draft budget law, which is the result of the Commission's work, summarises very effectively the key points on which the work of the Popular Alternative rotates: enterprises, family, work. On the business front, I would like to highlight some of the measures which have been fundamental to us and which we are satisfied with are contained in this measure, namely the recruitment of young people with new reductions for enterprises taking under 35, which thanks to the work of the Commission are increased to include specifically the decontribution for new recruits in the regions of the Mezzogiorno. Businesses are at the heart of the measures. I would also like to point out, in particular, those concerning the fisheries sector, which is so dear to us, with the recognition for workers, also for next year, of the daily allowance during the period of suspension of work resulting from compulsory cessation measures, unfortunately envisaged, and with the increase of resources for the three-year National Fisheries and Aquaculture Programme in the period from 2018 to 2019. We have resources to combat the poultry emergency, with the specific aim of promoting the recovery of the economic and productive activity of the poultry companies, precisely to facilitate the strengthening of the system of surveillance and prevention of avian influenza and, consequently, to protect human health. On the family front, I would like first of all to thank the Government for ensuring that in the policies of welfare the leave provided for women victims of gender-based violence will also be extended to domestic workers, while for orphans of feminicide, always unanimously approved by the Budget Commission, an ad hoc fund is established with a budget of EUR 2.5 million per year for the three-year period. In addition to having contributed to the valorization of the caregiver figure (instituting a fund for the support of the title of care and assistance of the caregiver family), we have committed ourselves to the theme of the so-called baby bonus, on which I will focus a little more, asking in particular the attention of the Government. I think it is now known to everyone that without Popular Alternatives today, in this House, we would not talk about baby bonuses because, despite the law of 2014 that established it, the Council of Ministers did not then refinance the measure. We have first of all stabilised the baby bonus measure permanently and structurally, from now until 2020, but also beyond and forever. In addition, here in the Senate we have recognised the financial coverage to restart and continue the measure for 2018, 2019 and 2020. Precisely with regard to the coverage, in 2018 we will guarantee the coverage of the cheque, as required by the law establishing the bonus, but, given the scarcity of resources for 2019 and 2020, the coverage compared to 2018 will be equal to 50 percent. With our continued commitment, also thanks to our colleagues in the House's Popular Alternative, we are counting on the measure to be fully funded for the years 2019 and 2020. On this I would particularly like to thank my group leader, Senator Laura Bianconi, for bringing the whole Group and the Government to a more appropriate and respectful position towards a measure that has begun to bear fruit. It is obvious that the effects of structural measures are seen in the long term, but I would like to remind you that over the past three years 800,000 Italian families have been able to benefit from the baby bonus measure. Undersecretary Pizzetti, I cannot help but make a very important passage for us, linked to the various journalistic reconstructions regarding the baby bonus, which do not correspond to that political and strategic agreement on the family that we have reached in the Commission with the Government. Therefore, I am asking the Government to give in the Assembly, now, the authentic interpretation of the scope of the norm, in order to escape completely misunderstandings interpretive that - we are sure - if there were, they could be changed in the passage to the House. For Popular Alternative the baby bonus is a three-year rule, which applies to the first three years of the child's life, as was provided by the law that established it. We are sure that the Government considers it appropriate here to clarify this crucial point, which for us represents - we repeat - the strategic political agreement on the family, an issue which for the People's Alternative is the most important condition for voting on this maneuver. [[Applause from the AP-CpE-NCD Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-11-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-911.ana.u54	He is registered to speak Senator Barozzino. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-11-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-911.ana.u55	Mr. President, gentlemen of the government, I think it's time for a lot of people in here to stop telling lies and get out of the crystal sphere where they live or think they live. The conditions in our country, unfortunately, are not good at all, starting - as many have cited it - from the embarrassment of work. Among the last cases, there is the one that came out a few days ago of the lady fired because she assisted her son with problems; it is one of the striking examples of what happens. This draft budget law, like all the measures of recent years, is nothing more than one of the dictates imposed by the European Union, which have little or nothing to do with the real needs of our country. Stop saying that with the few resources available you couldn't do more, because that's not true. I want to remember that when you want to find the money, you find it. You have given between jobs act and various tips, between 30 and 40 billion euros, which are public money, of the people, without it receiving anything in return from the masters, not even in the field of employment (then I'll tell you why), so much so that youth unemployment is attested to 35.5%: nothing but resources for young people! Young people run away from this country because they have underpaid, precarious and unworthy work. In the South - I want to remind you, because you are talking about the idea that you have now come to the South, from which I come - unemployment stands at around 50%. Just to give the data and to read it correctly (not as you do), youth employment is between 17 and 20 points below the European average and - I would like to remind you - you have been in the government for five years. You, in this measure, propose practically the same things, in the wake of jobs act, bonuses, internships: money to rain without asking anything in return. In fact, add something, even sadder, on that trail, which is the school-work alternation. Let us explain to those who listen to us what the school-work alternation really involves. It will cover a million and a half children, who will have to do free work, equal to 500 million hours of work, in companies chosen and without any control, so much so that when the nefariousness emerges it is because it is the students who have the courage to denounce them or to manifest, so there are no controls. I propose a reflection that I have made several times in the Commission, to which no one of the majority and of the Government has been able to respond. Take the case of a high school student who will have to do 200 hours of free work (400 for professional institutions) in selected companies, who may be asked to put sauces in sandwiches. I have not understood what is the relevance to what he has studied; what usefulness will it bring to the worker? Above all, after you have worked for free and out of the question, will companies have the obligation to hire this worker? I didn't see it written anywhere. More than measures for young people! ISTAT data must have the courage to read them, not to interpret them as you please. You say that unemployment has fallen thanks to the jobs act and that it stands at 11.2 percent, but then you have to continue reading the news provided by ISTAT and I read you word for word what it says immediately after: whoever in a week has worked at least one hour is considered busy. This is employment for you and at this point it explains the other ISTAT data: increase the fixed-term workers (plus 20.2 percent) and the administered workers (plus 133.2 percent). I would like to remind you that while once it was at least immoral and even criminal, companies today use so many of these workers administered to replace employees on strike who defend their work with their dignity, what the government should do. We're really talking about two different worlds. I heard Senator Parente say that this provision provides to accompany people to find work when they forgive him. You have been making these considerations in the Commission for three years; you used to call them active labour policies and said that the money saved by cutting social shock absorbers should serve to find another job for the workers who had lost it. Well, two and a half years later in the Commission, lower your head. I made very simple requests: I come from Basilicata, a region where 1,200 workers, following these choices, have lost the shock absorbers and have no work; I therefore wonder what they have to do since for two years now they are without income, or rather without social shock absorbers (income is a big word), and without work. There should be a limit to farce, also because I remind you that those who, like Germany (where unemployment is less than 4%) want to make active labour policies invest something like EUR 5 billion in that end; we invest the tenth part and our unemployment rate is what I mentioned earlier, so you really live in a world of your own. Then I have to make a transition on the income of inclusion (REI), of which everyone says magnificences. I've asked simple questions about the additional amount you've been expecting since 2020. We have observed that the best analysts had said that in order to cope with rising poverty in our country, beyond what you say, as ISTAT says, it would take at least 7 billion euros; you have invested the seventh part of 7 billion. Now, after various opposition insistences, say to add - if I'm not mistaken - 400 million, which are not nonsense (I never joke about money). If in a region like Basilicata (this is the point on which you have not been able to answer) there are 1,200 workers who have lost the social shock absorbers (the Basilicata has 570,000 inhabitants), for all Italy will suffice, are these sums really additional? I absolutely don't think so, so before you define them as additional you have to have the courage to say it. I would also like to make a final comment on the increase in the retirement age, because on this too, in my opinion, you speak out of proportion and continue to say inaccuracies (I want to be good about this). The latest data tells us that the deaths at work have increased; in the statistics that has been made, many are people with an advanced age for work, over sixty years old. The fact that a worker must continue to work on the threshold of seventy years (in a few years) do you think it does not affect? You have done something really shameful: you have made the work precarious, without rights and without dignity, while our young people flee from Italy you call these good measures, innovations. I think there must be a limit to everything; at least at the end of the legislature someone should take a conscience test, but I understand that these words of mine are unheard because there is no deafer than those who do not want to hear, and you are of the worst kind. [[Applause from the Misso-SI-SEL Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-11-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-911.ana.u56	He's enlisted to speak Senator Borioli. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-11-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-911.ana.u57	Mr President, representatives of the Government, having to condense in a few words and in five minutes an overall assessment of this draft budget law, I will try to say what I think are the salient elements that characterize it. This is a measure that in some way is placed in a rut of continuity with respect to the many initiatives that the governments of these years have undertaken to intercept the need to revive the growth of the country and to restart the dynamics of employment through a job which, in the medium term, we begin to see important results. In fact, the data that go out in sequence now confirm every time the trend of growth is there and that there are important signs on the employment front too. Along with this - I stress this because I think it is a very important political element - this maneuver introduces a signal certainly not yet sufficient, but it gives an indication of a strong curvature towards the demand for protection, of combating poverty, of specification in the encouragement of employment dynamics towards young people and towards the Mezzogiorno and through the measures that concern the family and the start of overcoming the superticket. In short, this is a bill that is placed, on the one hand, in the wake of a positive continuity, and on the other, introduces politically relevant innovations. I would also like to say this with a little regret because, although of course with its imperfections - and also with those which may be considered by other Members of this Parliament to be its inadequacy - among the budgetary laws that we have adopted over the past few years, even with a part of my colleagues who have voted on the previous budget laws, this is a measure which marks for the first time a very important attention - which I believe is a political signal - in an attempt to regain attention and confidence in those popular classes that have probably felt particularly mortified in recent years. Well, I would like this signal to be taken because it is relevant and I believe - there would be many other things to say - it is the most distinctive feature of this important measure. I have heard in some speeches - and this is a real question - reference to certain aspects and waste which a complex law such as this, which must be carried forward in the context of a complicated majority, carries with it. Somebody calls them tips. Someone else uses more colorful ways. This is true. Speaking to some of my colleagues this morning, I said, for example - I know that I will probably not meet with the consent of my colleagues and colleagues - that the budget law should actually be the law in which the driest is the relationship of trust between Parliament and the Government and in which the amending activity should be limited to very few major issues. After that, the tipping chase - I also took part in the night session, if we want to call it yesterday - somehow becomes physiological in this context and to some extent also makes us much more similar to those populations on the southern shore of the Mediterranean from which we sometimes say that we want to defend ourselves because we are afraid of it, but with which we actually have many traits in common. Despite this, which of course distinguishes a very minority part of the bill as a whole, I believe that we are about to dismiss here in the Senate a good measure that I hope the House can still be improved. In conclusion, I would just like to leave two recommendations to the government representative, Undersecretary Pizzetti, because this is something that the speakers who accompanied the draft budget bill to the Senate will no longer be able to do when it passes to the House. I am referring to two aspects which, in the performance of my duties as a Member of Parliament in the territory, I must point out for the continuation of the budget law procedure in the other branch of Parliament. These are two issues, Mr. Undersecretary, which have remained open and which I have been following for a long time. The first concerns the fate of the workers in this country's highway sector, who are struggling in recent days to defend their jobs; yesterday in the Commission there was an important position taken by Deputy Minister Morando, who could not come to an end because there were no numerical conditions for it to arrive in an amendment and I believe that this issue must be taken up again because the jobs of thousands of people and the living conditions of thousands of families must be looked at carefully. The second issue concerns asbestos. I would like to thank Senator Santini for promoting an amendment which has enabled us to give an initial answer to this problem. I just want to remind you, however, that just last weekend it was held in Casale Monferrato, which is the tragically symbolic city of the "asbestos" affair, an important conference promoted by the Government, on the issue of benefits for victims and their families and free assistance in the processes in which the victims form a civil part. Since very often the victims are forced by the high costs to abandon for the activity of constitution in part civil, more solid answers are needed, the same ones that the Government has undertaken to assume not more than a few days ago and that I hope in the transition to the House, for impulse of the Government, can be better arranged, collected by the Government and transformed into appropriate measures. [[Applause from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-11-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-911.ana.u58	On behalf of the Assembly, I greet the students and teachers of the Institute of Higher Education, Liceo Bocchi-Galilei, Adria, in the province of Rovigo, who are attending our work. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-11-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-911.ana.u59	Senator Ceroni is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-11-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-911.ana.u60	Mr President, Mr Pizzetti, ladies and gentlemen, this is the last important measure before the end of this parliamentary term, a legislature to be forgotten, which has led the country to the brink of economic and financial abyss. A legislature characterized by betrayals and lies: many voters were betrayed who had voted their representatives to be part of one side and during the legislature found them in the other. Treasons that have allowed three Presidents of the Council to alternate, but no one, after the parliamentary term, will regret them. Over the course of these years, the various governments have tried, through various lies, to calm the citizens, but in the country has realized a widespread feeling of protest and reaction that will explode in the next spring, in the elections. Let me give you an example. In recent days Minister Padoan has given an interview to the daily newspaper "La Repubblica" on the Italian economic situation, in which he said that the public debt has stopped growing, there are a million more employed and the confidence of companies and families is much more solid. Three completely unsubstantiated statements. If we look in absolute terms, the public debt is actually growing constantly and since September it has reached the value of 2,284 billion euros. Looking in the long run, starting from the Monti Government, that is, since he left President Berlusconi, the public debt was 1,906 billion and has grown by 378 billion. Even if we were to look at the short term, in the first seven months of 2017, the public debt increased by a total of 82 billion euros. A figure in line with the same period of 2016, when it increased by 83 billion, but well above that of 2015, when the public debt had grown by only 64 billion. It is clear that in the economic planning documents the government has made very optimistic forecasts and in the end the accounts have not returned and this has generated public debt, which continues to grow. Germany, for example, reduced its public debt by EUR 63 billion. This is a concern not only in Italy, but also in the world. A few days ago, the Director of the European Department of the International Monetary Fund said that Italy has a great challenge ahead: to reduce the high level of public debt. It is clear that the public debt has not decreased even remotely. I thought then that perhaps the Minister meant that the ratio of public debt to GDP has decreased. We went to see, but we didn't. Eurostat reported a percentage of Italian government debt in relation to GDP of 134.7% in the second quarter of 2017; up from 134 percent in the first quarter and 132 percent in the last quarter of 2016. So it doesn't even decrease the ratio. The Bank of Italy certifies this very often, stating that this relationship is in light and constant growth. It is unfortunately clear that this ratio cannot be reduced because GDP does not increase, i.e. GDP growth is not corresponding to debt growth. Real GDP growth is 1.5% or, if you like, 1.6%, but remains the lowest in the European Union. The European Commission expects Italy to grow by 1.5% in 2017, 1.3% in 2018 and 1% in 2019. The forecasts of Italian economic growth are therefore decreasing. The decline in GDP objectively was also very strong in Italy compared to the European average following the crisis. Today we are at -7 percent compared to the maximum level of the pre-crisis period. However, there are countries in Europe, including France and Germany, which have done much better. For example, in France GDP grew by 5.2 percent above the 2008 crisis level. In Germany they were able to do even better, recording 9.4%. All this has also depended on job losses. It is clear that if people do not work, GDP does not grow. Unfortunately, since the crisis to date, 955,000 jobs have been lost in Italy. It is true that in the last period some jobs have been recovered. But to the citizens we must tell the whole truth. In the statistics ISTAT is considered busy also those who have done only one hour of work in the reference week of the survey. To get a more certain and true fact, I tell you that the total hours worked is still very far from the pre-crisis level and we are at 680 million hours less worked. This means that the new jobs recovered are mostly part-time and, if we look at ISTAT data, in 2016 standard full-time workers compared to 2008 decreased by one million, while part-time workers grew by 789,000 units. It is true, therefore, that the amount of workers has returned to pre-crisis levels, but the composition of contracts has changed, with an increase in part-time contracts and a decrease in full-time contracts. Another fact that allows us to see how employment is going in Italy is the Since 2008 we have lost 1.2 million equivalent units of work, and this is the fact that we have to consider to quantify the true input of the production factor in realising GDP. If there is no work in Italy, Italians go abroad. In 2016 there were 124,000 Italians who left Italy and went to seek luck in the rest of the world. Mostly they went to Britain and Germany. Of these 194,000, 70,000 are young people with a degree and a diploma. This also leads to an intellectual impoverishment of the country. We also lose traders, artisans and professionals. Since 2008 we have lost 514,000 and the figure is deteriorating because in the second half of 2017 the decrease in the number of self-employed has been 84,000. Then there is the alarm cry about births. Nobody is born in Italy anymore. Just yesterday ISTAT pointed out that there were 473,000 born in 2016. The births have decreased by more than 100,000 in the last eight years and the costs are the couples with both Italian parents. Finally, Mr President, there is another parameter that makes an impression: in Italy there are 5 million absolute poor people. What does the government do with these problems that I have listed and the 5 million absolute poor? Room 185 million euros, less than 200 euros per family. I don't know what these poor people will do to us with 200 euros a year. I overlook confidence, which has decreased both among businesses and between families and I close by saying that, compared to these problems that I have listed, the budget law makes water on all sides. First of all, there are no more resources. You burned every chance the country had. Do a financial maneuver in debt: another €12 billion in debt, which is really criminal. If Italy's number one problem is public debt, we make a budget that increases it. The EUR 20 billion we have in the budget is used to cover the safeguard clauses. We defeat the increase in VAT in 2018, but we move it to 2019, so the new government will find it again. There are also 5 billion missing and the European Commission's communication has been clear. Therefore, the new government will have to deal with 20 billion euros of budget hole, in addition to the public debt that is found. You burned the resources of the next legislature, too. I should like to conclude by saying that the work in the Commission has also been shameful and marked by confusion, blackmail, dozens of cases of unjustified provisions and tips that are shameful in the disastrous situation in which Italy is located. This is an irresponsible budget law. Nothing for the earthquake. Nothing for the municipalities. Nothing for the Provinces. For these reasons, Mr President, our opinion is strongly negative and highly critical and we hope that this situation will end as soon as possible. [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-11-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-911.ana.u61	She is registered to speak Senator Fasiolo. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-11-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-911.ana.u62	Mr President, I am very impressed by the speech made earlier today. I believe that the budgetary manoeuvre before Parliament, on the other hand, is characterised by very important measures contained in it, which aim to respond to economic issues but also to problems affecting our families in the daily life and which, therefore, is a measure of great social value. I would like to stress the significance of the fund for persons who assist the sick at home (the so-called caregivers), whether they are family members (up to the second degree or the third degree in the case of disabled persons who are not self-sufficient in accompanying allowances), spouses, partners in civil unions or living together in fact. Financial coverage has not been weak: it is EUR 60 million over the three years. A first important step towards the recognition of a meritorious charitable work, made by so many "invisible" people who assist their loved ones in the home walls driven by love and dedication, facing situations at the limit of physical and psychological sustainability. This is a significant measure. It is a tangible signal, in which we have put a lot of passion and much conviction. Of the same content are the measures introducing the fund for the killing of the health superticket and the extension of the exemption for the weakest groups, as well as the re-entry of the three-year baby bonus for those born also from 1 January 2018. Even on this I think it takes more, but more could not be done, however, because, of course, the blanket is short. Of course, I remember that there is a bill, which I have signed with other colleagues with conviction, having as the first signatory Senator Lepri, that must be a further piece on which to reason for the future, taking into account the fact that, as the demographer and colleague, Senator Gianpiero Dalla Zuanna, writes today, on "Il Mattino" (Il Mattino) since 2008 (as someone said a moment ago) to date the decline of births has been of 100,000 born less, and from l995 to today there are 1.5 children per woman less. So this is a huge problem that we really need to look at all round and on which we really need to think seriously in the near future. Well all measures taken to reduce poverty and family support measures (see income inclusion) in this budget law. It should be emphasized the extensive aspect of the protection concerning the monthly allowance for families who apply for it within ninety days of the birth of a child or of family entry of an adopted child or pre-adoptive foster care, where the ISEE does not exceed 25,000 euros. But other measures have been really good and it is a lie to me what I said just now: that nothing has been done for the regions affected by the earthquake. I would like to focus on the aspect of the introduction of special economic zones for the areas of the Mezzogiorno and those affected by seismic phenomena. I am a supporter of this instrument, which has already been tested and consolidated in other countries of the Union. I think it's very useful. However, in this case too, I would have liked to see this method applied extensively for areas not necessarily affected by emergencies, but which are still depressed, living in difficult situations which lead to a brake on growth, development and recovery because of the disparities they are experiencing in terms of competitiveness with the countries concerned. The border areas of the North-East are a clear example of what I am talking about; I hope therefore that the agenda presented by me will be taken into consideration and that, from this point of view, the House will find a solution and a corrective solution. Turning to another subject, I have a wish for another amendment concerning social security measures for workers who have worked in asbestos-related production processes, which was mentioned earlier by Senator Borioli, in municipalities with a mortality rate for related asbestos diseases significantly higher than the national average. Recognition of social security benefits would be a necessary element. So the asbestos victims' fund and this free sponsorship should be placed in an organic package, on which to think for a 'zero asbestos' objective, but also in order to deal with this great problem. I would therefore like to mention other measures, which I consider very important, on schools, universities and research, on issues relating to administrative staff (which have been or will be resolved), on stabilisation, on research, on PhD students and on the right to study. With regard to the amendment on the introduction of the figure of the psychologist in the school, which has been transformed into an agenda and accepted as a recommendation - I am sorry that the children of the upper secondary schools previously present in the gallery - I hope that it will be accepted to some extent, because external figures, not only teachers but also other specializations, would make a great contribution, in support of the profound social change that the school is going through and with reference to the technological and multimedia revolution, which must be governed. The processes of change must be governed and not suffered, seen and considered the devastating risks that our young people face. I therefore hope that some measures of this kind will be implemented in practice in the next school year. I would like to talk about many other aspects: I mention only two of them and then I stop. It is important that amendments have been adopted concerning the agricultural and agri-food sectors, as regards payments for detention and support for young farmers: these are absolutely important measures. Of course, the budget law before us has provided for the necessary financial posts for draft laws which would otherwise have remained "middle-air." I therefore believe that these decisions which have been taken are absolutely important and that they must look at a future on which we must invest. [[Applause from Senator Silvestro]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-11-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-911.ana.u63	Senator Girotto is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-11-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-911.ana.u64	Mr President, citizens, colleagues, with the examination of the last budget law of the legislature, we have now reached the end of the line and I am not referring to the conclusion of this mandate, but to the opportunities that the majority in recent years has not wanted to seize to heal the gap opened with the country, which has therefore widened. I am referring in particular to the unemployed, the precarious and those who have a job but still cannot meet the basic needs. It is an increasingly unsustainable situation, which no longer results in internal emigration between north and south of the country, but in thousands of young talents, mostly graduates, forced to go abroad to have a job, a dignity and a quality of life, which in Italy becomes increasingly difficult to reach. In recent years we believe we have learned a few things; at least we have verified that the representatives of this majority lack the ability and the real will to pursue the best solutions. Unlike the 5 Star Movement, the majority have shown that they do not want to build and pursue change every day, in small steps. You are talking about development, about objectives, about progress, but you are voting to preserve the status quo, that is, the present, to protect the strongest still, to defend the great capital. This is a practice that you have applied in all sectors: banking - banking - business and industrial. On the demand and supply side, on the producer's or consumer's side, woe to those who touch the great speculative capital and oligopolies, even if they destroy natural resources, threaten common goods and feed on the territories social conflicts against citizens, who simply claim justice. The issue of the use and exploitation of natural resources does not find sufficient room in political discussions, let alone in the budget law. In fact, there are no environmental tax measures in this measure, which would have as their main benefits the limitation of pollution-related damage and a higher disposable income for households and investments. (17.30) (Following GIROTTO). The overall effect of these measures would have been a strong stimulus to the creation of new jobs, to the growth of the economy. In short, it would finally have been structural measures to support the community, directing our production system towards the green economy, the circular economy and decarbonisation. On the contrary, we are obliged to note that the activities harmful to the environment and health, rather than being properly penalized, are the target of legislative simplifications and subsidies by the State: the SAD (environmentally harmful subsidies) are equal to 18 billion euros in Italy and we certainly do not say so alone. According to the International Monetary Fund, the elimination of global subsidies to the energy sector would increase Member States' revenues by $2,900 billion (2.9% of world GDP), reducing CO2 emissions by 20%. Among the proposals of the Movement you have also rejected that with which we raised from 50% to 100% the use of the share of the fund on emission allowances for the realization of interventions of savings, efficiency and production of renewable energy, currently used to cover the debt, precisely, to 50%. Instead you have approved yet another favour for the large groups operating in the energy sector of fossil sources with serious repercussions on the budgets of the Municipalities of Livorno and Rovigo: with the approval of amendment 63.4 (text 4), at the first signature of Senator Santini, you recognize the reduction of the IMU to the artifacts located in the territorial sea destined to activities of liquified natural gas regasifiers. And that would be your Green Act, so pompously announced, but never realized? Please note that Livorno's OLT regasifier, largely underused, is already recognized as the so-called guarantee factor, paid through energy bills for twenty years. Every year, for twenty years, we pay a subsidy to these plants to guarantee them a 70% remuneration even if they do not carry out activities. It is an amendment that we consider inappropriate and anti-social that will certainly put in difficulty the budgets of the municipalities of Livorno and Rovigo, but they must play hard to suffer the negative environmental impact of these infrastructures. Not to mention the attempts to armor the control over the Energy Authority, since with another amendment, always at the first signature of Senator Santini, it is proposed to widen the number of seats of the college from three to five and to extend the competences to waste. It is a useless operation, designed in our opinion for two objectives: the need to settle two other assignments to 240,000 euros a year (in the face of an increase of only 25 units of the staff employed) and to better achieve a political accommodation that can exclude the 5 Star Movement from any reasoning on the new composition of the college of the Authority, which for the next seven years will have to deal with the regulation of the strategic sectors of water, energy and waste. We have not only spoken out against it, but we have also called for the extension of the terms of the renewal of the college until the next parliamentary term, so that the appointment is consistent with the parliamentary composition that the voters will decide to express with the ballot boxes and has nothing to do with this Parliament now at the end of the line. In this measure, moreover, there is no provision, failing the commitments repeatedly made by the Government in Parliament, to stabilize tax deductions for several years for energy efficiency and building renovation. Despite the absolute need to intervene, we do not want to invest for the industrial development of the most innovative experiences that operate within the green economy and that of decarbonization and that are instead hindered by the absence of effective energy and climate policies, also with regard to the European and international objectives that the country must achieve. Moreover, with the continuous changes of the regulatory framework (reform of domestic and non-domestic tariffs, spread-incentives, closed distribution systems, ecobonus, etc.) and the uncertainty of the regulatory application, both on the side of the supply of energy, excluding the participation of renewable sources in the electric market, through the dispatching services, and on the side of the demand, discouraging the so-called demand response, the aggregations and the V2G, we want to preserve the old energy model based on the centralised production with fossil sources. I remind you and especially the citizens that from 2014 to today, in Italy, electricity production from renewables has dropped by 12 percent in three years - which you can't hear - while that of fossils has grown by 14 percent: so, -12 percent for renewables and +14 percent for fossils. Congratulations, very congratulations! The 8% increase in CO2 emissions is of course the logical and consequential result. This continuous deterioration is confirmed also in the first seven months of this year, with a further reduction of the renewables of 3,5 terawattora and an increase of the fossils of 10 terawattora. In addition, according to Althesys' data - once again we are not saying it - we have gone from more than 31 billion euros of investments in 2011 to a billion in 2016. In 2011, there were 140,000 direct employees in the renewables sector; in 2016, thanks to your policies, we only have 24,000. I ask you again: is this your Green Act? It is paradoxical that an industrial and innovative sector like renewables, instead of growing, has lost more than 120,000 jobs in five years and has seen a decrease in investments of 30 billion: a devastating loss for a sector instead strategic and fundamental to withstand the international competitiveness, growth and economic development of the country. The best confirmation of what I say is found in the politics of dozens of foreign countries, which are instead pursuing this path. We also do not agree with the reduction of the deduction from 65% to 50% for the purchase and installation of windows, windows, solar screens and for the replacement of winter air conditioning systems, thereby compromising the positive aspects that these tax benefits have had in recent years on driving sectors of the national economy and risk creating paradoxically distorting market effects. For the 5 Star Movement it was necessary to identify, through this measure, a plan for the use of new technologies, in order to decarbonize the productive sector and make Italy independent from fossils by 2050. To this end, it would have been a priority to strengthen and take measures to deal with civil and industrial buildings, energy efficiency, savings and self-consumption and the use of renewable sources. It was also necessary to promote electric mobility, which sees Italy as a taillight with the registration of only 2,000 vehicles per year (10 times below the European average), with deductions in favour of the construction of charging columns and measures to support the application of V2G technology, which someone still does not know, but which is becoming a pillar in all developed countries, because it closes the circle of renewables, making electric cars become the largest national storage system: all measures that we have presented and that, for fear of change, you have failed us. Know - and I conclude, Mr President - that you have not wronged us of the 5 Star Movement, but of the country, which continues to remain the taillight on many technological aspects, with so many young people who have to go to work abroad and who find their place abroad in these innovative sectors, leaving to us Italians only the burden of having paid for their studies, but to others the benefits of enjoying their intelligences. Evidently the important thing for you, however, is not to touch the great speculative capital, not to touch the established privileges, the status quo and remain caste among the castes. We're gonna fight it. [[Applause from the M5S Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-11-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-911.ana.u65	He's enlisted to speak Senator Martini. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-11-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-911.ana.u66	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I am only going to talk about the high level of musical and choreographic artistic training (AFAM), a small issue compared to the others we have discussed, but qualitatively interesting and emblematic because, in its own way, the AFAM is a small summary of Italy today. It is a sector made up of historical excellences, but also institutions that are struggling to survive; it is made up of strong identities, but also of exasperated self-referentiality; it is made up of great needs for organizational reforms and decades-long delays, almost twenty years-old, in implementation; it is made up of large pockets of precariousness and marginality of the sector with respect to the great issue of school. In this area today we can bring two results from the debate in the Commission: an amendment with which we set out the objective of the statisticalization of all the former institutions (statistication that can be done in three years replacing the municipalities that can no longer hold them); moreover, we allocate adequate resources, of the MIUR and of the MEF, which will guarantee the statization over the three years. So not a round game, but new concrete resources. I would like to thank all those who contributed to this result, from all the Groups. I would like to thank, of course, the Ministries of Education and Economics, Deputy Minister Morando, who helped out, the representatives of the Government and, if I may, especially my Group in the 7th Commission, President Marcucci and the leader Elena Ferrara, with whom we have strongly shared this result, which has not been easy or obvious, if we think that for many years we have been working on it without getting there. I would like to make two comments on this result. The first is that we had more ambitions than we have achieved. We wanted to outline a path to statization, that is, there were shared criteria and ways. There was no text and the text is very narrow. Now the initiative will be of the Ministry, which of course also has many other emergencies and tasks, and I hope that we will find a way to support its efforts. The second objective was to link the statization with the start of a reordering of the entire system; an essential objective, because one cannot think - and it was a great misunderstanding - that the reorganization was only a price demanded by the MEF in order to be able to finance the statization. That is not the case, because it is an absolute requirement. I say this here with a very simple phrase: the AFAM will not live if it does not reorganise; it risks to collapse on itself if we will not be able to innovate and also reorganize the training offer. The third objective was to begin to heal the great theme of the precarious, with those participating in the ranking of Law n. 128 of 2013, those who have been working for three years and the masters of the second group. These are urgent issues. The answer of the MEF and the General Accounting Office of the State was that this issue should be resolved by the recruitment regulation. I believe that we can see in the meantime whether the subject can be reopened in the House and in any case, if the solution is the regulation, now more than ever it is indispensable. The second comment is that we, by adopting this amendment and achieving these results, have not crossed the line, neither of the statisation nor of the relaunch of the AFAM. We have just left, and it is very important that we have done so, but we cannot now forget that we have immediate tasks ahead of us. The first is to start the statization well. I would like to say to the Ministry of Education, which will have the task of managing this phase, of taking advantage of what has been worked out in all these years of work, in which we have built the hypothesis of staticization without throwing at sea a work of proposals and also an atmosphere of harmony that we have built around this objective: to get there in three years, to grieve the municipalities progressively, to statisse all together, not to proceed by absorption but enhancing identities. The second task is to set up an organic, deep, courageous reorder: no one thinks that, when these additional resources arrive, we can continue to work as if nothing had happened. In conclusion, Mr President, I see three strands of work ahead of us: a new territorial network that we could experience in the meantime in music; to complete all the regulations that we await from the law of 21 December 1999, n. 508; to build a location of the AFAM closest to the university. Perhaps it is also time to take seriously the idea of moving to the publicist regime. As for the issue of precariousness, we must give an answer to the workers who are waiting to get out of this situation. We will need a lot of work and innovative spirit and we need the government and politics to play their part. Eighteen years of slowness must now be overcome and the sector must also play its part: there have been and there are too many divisions, too many fears and too many closures. It is not closing that the AFAM of excellence will be born that we all want. [[Applause from the PD Group and Senator Zeller]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-11-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-911.ana.u67	He's enlisted to speak Senator Mineo. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-11-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-911.ana.u68	Mr President, if I wanted to use political jargon today, I could say that the financial maneuver in question was born of a fake news and feeds a fake news. It stems from the thesis, claimed by the governments of this legislature, that they themselves have healed the economy and caused growth which, on the other hand, is an octroyée growth, tow - and, moreover, lower - than that of the eurozone. Moreover, the thesis argues that this growth is stable, while it is undermined by deep imbalances, as the President of the European Central Bank Draghi says, the most important of which is the fact that in Italy wages are too low. Today the President of the INPS states that 2,400,000 of the certified workers (the safe ones) are below the poverty line. The fake news that feeds is that this financial maneuver, like the previous one, has healed the accounts. That is not true: we know that, in the middle of next year, we are expecting another manoeuvre that the European Union has already announced to us. However, it must be said that the Silveri-Padoan Gentiloni Government has worked in difficult conditions, because, as we all understand, this is a financial manoeuvre in the electoral campaign. The election campaign is characterized by three populisms. I quote a few articles that have appeared in recent days on "la Repubblica": Berlusconi promises an equal flax tax for households and businesses; Matteo Renzi a tax reduction plan never seen and Luigi Di Maio says: I think of a shock maneuver to lower taxes on businesses, also drawing on resources in deficit. However, these are promises that would need money. Today the "Corriere della Sera" makes some accounts: Berlusconi, only for the 1,000 euros per pensioner it takes 4 billion euros; Di Maio, for the salary of citizenship it takes 15 billion euros; Renzi, for 80 euros to families and other bonuses are needed 10 billion euros. Where do we find this money? We don't find them for two reasons. Firstly, because the three populisms do not have a European policy. I ask you to understand what the policy towards the Europe of the coalition of the Right will be, thanks to the Rosatellum. The party to which the current President of the Senate also participates has often said that he is quite critical of Europe and has received the Le Pen and also of the German groups who are of the extreme right, very opposed to Merkel. President Berlusconi was electrocuted by Merkel after the disagreements of the past and wants to make such a policy. The 5 Star Movement had spoken of a referendum on the euro; it seems to me that at this moment Di Maio tries to accredit himself with everyone and at any price. As for Matteo Renzi, the fist politics on the table produced that small concession - flexibility - which was all wasted on bonuses and electoral gifts when it was necessary to pass the referendum on constitutional reform and on the so-called Italicum. In fact, the state accounts are absolutely not in order. The second reason why this money will not be found was said very well yesterday by Massimo D'Alema to ................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... I would like to point out that in Italy there are no progressive taxes on assets, while labour, wages and consumption are taxed - and too much. In this way the reductions that are boasting discontent even the categories that benefit from them. Let me give you just one example: corporate taxation, yes, has fallen from 27.5% to 24%; but this is a reduction that has been offset by abolishing the reduction for companies that invested so much, in the face of contributions to innovative companies that want to build the future. Second example: the cuts in local government contributions force local authorities themselves to increase their taxes; therefore, even modest national reductions in taxes for us normal (for us who are not companies), are then paid with more taxes at local level. At this point, of course, financial manoeuvre can only be proposed to postpone the pace of the increase in VAT, one of the safeguard clauses with which Europe essentially protects itself from our bad policy. But of course we are in elections and tomorrow the newspapers will be full of all the marches that individual senators have introduced for electoral reasons, because then there is the college and so you have to make a good impression. I am generous, I do not quote them and I refer you back to reading the newspapers today and tomorrow. However, I want to say two very brief things about an amendment of mine, which was erga omnes, in the interest of the country: I had asked to stabilize the precarious researchers of public bodies. I have been told that there is no money to stabilize them, because, moreover, if we stabilize those, then the ALA Group of Verdini will ask us for customer jobs. I do not know if Verdini really wants to do this, but let me remind you that the stabilization of precarious researchers is in the interest of the future of the country, because the best run away and the others pass the desire to research; this regarding the choices on the future that everyone makes. An amendment by Senator Verducci has passed, very reductive compared to ours, which allows the recruitment of perhaps a thousand people, but creating other divisions in the category and a discretion that can be very dangerous. In addition to that, I would like to insist on the side of the measures that are in place. For example, Minister Lorenzin says that although we have not completely abolished the superticket, in Italy we have a health care that really protects in case of serious diseases. That is absolutely true, but the point, dear Minister, is that if, at the level of the people, you pay too much for the public health contribution, this will create a delegitimization of the National Health Service, which will sooner or later make it unworkable and not usable even the essential cures in case of tumors or very serious diseases. Another issue is the baby bonus. I heard my colleague, Vicars of the People's Alternative, who boasted about it; but, my colleague, it is a tip: 40 euros per regime. In other countries, neighboring France, a child who is born has rights: he has the right to a small sum that the State gives; he has the right, if his family is not wealthy, to crèche, that is to say to kindergarten; he has the right to motherhood, which he takes from three years and to a series of other contributions for school, for his education and for families. But France is a very distant country. As far as taxes are concerned, for example, in France they are not ashamed, as you are all ashamed, to impose taxes on assets. For example, you pay the tax on the first house and not only; in case of divorce, the transfer of a share of the property of the house to the spouse is taxed to the extent of 2.5%: in the case of a fortune of 500,000 euros it is 2,500 times 5 (take the account) of taxes that you pay to the state. Again, if there is a foreign investor (I live in Rome in a property of a Spanish company), the plus-value, i.e. the new value that the house assumes from the time of purchase at the time of sale, is taxed at 30 percent. Dear colleagues, we all know that taxes are not beautiful, as poor Padoa-Schioppa said, but, meanwhile, if we paid them all (if that 20 percent who has 70 percent of the wealth paid them), they would be less heavy; and then, without facing these knots and without telling the truth to people, where are the money for your electoral promises? I say to you that in any case it is ugly; if taxes are not beautiful, it is ugly to live an electoral campaign in which these three populisms promote the moon and the sun without understanding where the resources come from. I hope that in the election campaign there will be at least another force that speaks the language of truth, that does not accept these populistic, demagogic and substantially deceptive logics. [[Applause from Senators Bocchino and Bell.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-11-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-911.ana.u69	On behalf of the Assembly, I greet the teachers and students of the Institute including Ignazio Silone in Montesilvano, in the province of Pescara, who are attending our work. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-11-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-911.ana.u70	He's enlisted to speak Senator Micheloni. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-11-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-911.ana.u71	Mr President, as a member of the delegation from the foreign college, I would like to point out that we have avoided tabling electoral amendments. In this sense, if you will allow me to make a point before my brief speech, I do not know whether the general debate I have heard is useful in improving relations between citizens and institutions, because I believe that, like all budgetary laws, it does not satisfy anyone: neither the opposition nor the majority. I see Mrs Zanoni and I think that if she had a billion available on Article 92 of the draft budget law she would probably have been happier than all of us; however, on given terms, this has been possible. I would therefore like to express my initial satisfaction with the results obtained for the foreign college. We have tabled an amendment that gave answers with little funds to the various institutions representing Italians abroad, to the contract staff in our consulates, to the diffusion of Italian language and culture, to the Italian press abroad, to the chambers of commerce and information agencies; all this for the modest sum of 4 million, which we then took from Table A of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and not from Article 92 of the draft budget law. The most important thing we have done during the examination of the measure under discussion is the authorisation of a competition for 150 officials in the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, financed not with the funds of the draft budget bill, but with the application of the concept of spending review, which referred - if we remember the title of that amendment - to the reduction of expenditure in variance of services. A few years ago we had already raised the problem of excessive costs of compensation for foreign offices for our diplomats; this time, in collaboration with the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, we finance the recruitment of 150 people by reducing those expenses. We had other proposals that could not be accepted and we will see what can be done from here on out. The purpose of my speech is to give you some explanations. Many of you, ladies and gentlemen, have asked me what Amendment 102.0.1, because you have received a lot of protest emails against it. This amendment is not an attack; there is a friend of mine, Mr Porta, who called it a coup: I am happy to finish my career as a senator on the charge of coups, because it is not for everyone, at least I have this pride, ladies and gentlemen, I have it and you do not and I am sorry for you. What is it really about? Ladies and gentlemen, I hope you will have the patience to listen for a minute. Perhaps not everyone, among those who do not follow this subject, knows that we are one of the few countries that allows to recover Italian citizenship until about 1870, if there is no bloody discontinuity, a hallucinating thing. Only our country allows such a thing. This has created, especially in Latin America, a real trade on our citizenship. At present, more than half a million dossiers are in practice in consulates and - we have not been able to prove this, otherwise we would have involved the judiciary - we know of agencies that, for payment, build these files. We have been working on this since 2006 and, as you well know, Mr President, we have a text of law blocked in the Committee on Constitutional Affairs in this parliamentary term, which is at the stage of amendment. We have tried and will try, as long as we breathe, to moralise and heal this situation. Then, the coup is the fact that we have proposed that citizenship can be recovered until the great-grandfather (in the draft law in the Commission we had proposed until the grandfather). This is the first attempt. The second attack is that we said that it would be appropriate for the person who receives Italian citizenship to be able to say "good morning" in Italian to the consul who gives him his passport. This is the second coup. We have put the level of qualification B1 of language knowledge: the lower it is difficult. The third coup is the fact that currently the tax for the practice of access to citizenship is 300 euros and we had proposed to bring it up to 400 euros. In some countries, President, the residence tax to work in that country costs much more than 400 euros and in all countries of the world, when you take or recover citizenship, you pay to the tune of thousands of euros. That was the other coup. Colleagues, you have been disturbed by the various e-mails you have received, so I tell you that this was a moralization operation: the no to our amendment comes from the Ministry of the Interior - let me be clear on this, President - while I want to thank that part of the Government, Deputy Minister Morando and Minister Finocchiaro, who until 4.30 this morning supported our proposal. The Ministry of the Interior blocked it because it claims that people cannot be quantified. We propose to narrow it down. This proposal comes from people living abroad, because we have the meaning and respect of the value of citizenship, which we do not always find on national territory. That is why you have been disturbed, and that is why we have been accused of attempting a coup by a political force present in this House which, among its leaders, has a gentleman who, in Senator Di Girolamo's arrest request documents, appears at least four times. These are the people - the MAIE, not to mention - who have triggered such operations with my Latin American friends. I think the measure will die, because it will end the legislature. I am sorry, and I thank Senator Turano and Senator Di Biagio who have supported this work to the last. We did not succeed, but I think we were doing our duty as senators of the Republic and not as representatives of particular interests, as I believe many of our Latin American colleagues have done. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator Cioffi is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-11-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-911.ana.u72	Mr President, we are about to vote on this draft budget law at the end of a parliamentary term characterised by the majority changes we have seen in this Parliament. Let's all remember that the legislature began with the alliance between PdL and PD minus L - at the time we called it that and it is not that something has changed in the meantime - and this majority has changed continuously, until it reaches the embrace, for us, indeed, for voters definitely deadly, between the PD and the Denis Verdini Group. What has been done is constantly before our eyes. First of all, I would like to thank Senators Montevecchi, Lezzi and Bulgarelli for the incredible work they have done in the Commission these days. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]] With them yesterday we had until 5 a.m. to stay on the spot, always to try to be careful and to fight all the things that came to the Commission. This budget law has been a constant assault on diligence, in which there have been many marchettes and many gifts, which at the end of the day did nothing but perpetuate the status quo, as has already been said by other members of my Group. It is a sad policy, in which it seems that everything can change, but then in the end nothing ever changes. On the other hand, the statements of Eugenio Scalfari, who says that he would prefer to ally with Berlusconi rather than consider the 5 Star Movement, are paradigmatic of what is the system in which we live. In this cat-pope system, we see that the caimano Berlusconi, who seemed to be missing, has returned to be present with his ancient prosopopopea, exhuming words so old, he who is a true traitor of liberals and liberal thought, but who still speaks of liberal revolution. In this system, we continue to live in this marasma of right and left conservatives. We have entered Parliament to try to say that this conservative system no longer makes sense, it is no longer right to exist: we have the courage to change really, to work for the sake of the citizens. Over the past five years, we have been fighting point by point, highlighting all the crap that has been done in this Parliament, often in combo between the two alleged enemies, who have always been friends (we all remember this). What have we done with regard to this budget law? We have tabled 400 amendments, which are not many, considering that the articles were 119, and we saw very strange things yesterday: we noted that the Government gave a favourable opinion to an amendment when the rapporteur said that it was contrary, those of the ALA Group spoke, who said that these were not the pacts and the Government changed the opinion in the race. This way of doing things continuously does not indicate any interest for the citizens, but only interest in the oligarchic systems. Thus, we have seen the amendment concerning the regasifiers and with that amendment we are saying to Exxon-Mobil, which is the tenth company in the world by capitalization and which is worth the $ 355 billion stock exchange, which cannot pay € 60 million a year for the IMU and therefore redistribute to the citizens the immense heritage it has. That's what we did. I would like to talk only about three proposals that we have made, which are at my first signature but which represent the spirit of the Movement. One concerns the housing emergency and it is absurd that this is not one of the central issues. We have read from the data provided by Federcasa that Italy is at the last places in the European rankings for percentage of social housing, with about 5% versus an average of 25% of other European countries. We have proposed to make a national database of the public heritage, the census, to predict that the rankings are transparent, that we understand who these accommodations should be assigned to, because we have seen what happened with the analyses we did to the Municipality of Rome, from which it has been pointed out that there are people living in the popular housing and that maybe they have eight other houses, or that they have incomes above 80,000 euros a year. Then, perhaps, we should put this system back on track, but the housing emergency is not a problem for this fake left and of course it has never been a problem for those who claim to be right. This is the social revolution we want to make. We want to put these issues back at the centre. We then put forward proposals on road safety: the issue of poor infrastructure maintenance is before everyone's eyes. We all know what the problem is. And then, perhaps, we have to think about starting from the problems of citizens, from what they live every day. Perhaps it is necessary to launch an extraordinary plan to put the roads back into operation, but not those that will pass to ANAS after the clash of the Provinces, when the ANAS will manage that incredible hole of the provincial roads never maintained because Minister Delrio said he had canceled the Provinces but in fact only destroyed them: we think that we must start again from the streets of the metropolitan cities. We need to provide services to the citizens. This too has not been taken into account. The last proposal we made was about tax havens, because the tax havens legislation in this country is very unique. It has been changed several times and it is interesting to read that until 2004 the tax systems of States which had a significantly lower tax than that of Italy were considered privileged, whereas after 2004 this definition was changed, establishing that States must be considered tax havens if they have a nominal taxation of less than 50% than the Italian one, and then say, later, that tax havens are those that do not have an information exchange system. As if the world's largest companies by capitalization, Apple, Microsoft, Facebook and Google, which have a capitalization ranging from $500 to $890 billion and home, except Microsoft, in the tax paradise of Delaware, can continue this system. Not to mention the Chinese companies, which all have their headquarters in the Cayman tax havens. And we don't deal with these issues. Who then has to pay taxes? Always the poor Christians, the citizens who try to float in this sea? Or perhaps we should charge taxes to those with economic and financial power and not pay them? Perhaps we should put these issues back at the centre. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] However, one can see that one does not want to do it, because it is more important to defend the interests of those few powerful than the widespread and collective interests. Maybe that's what we should do. And we've seen him all the time. Not to mention the endless marches. Mr President, I have here a package of 34 amendments which were voted on yesterday. These are amendments which give EUR 500 000 to one, one million to the other. We gave 400,000 euros to a church in Aulla. As if the church of Aulla had more dignity than any other church in Italy. Strangely, however, Senator Barani is of Aulla; perhaps the patron saint of that church is the Bettino Craxi of which he put the statue in the square. Maybe it's that stuff there. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] Not to mention other monasteries, always Aulla. Not to mention the fact that we make a travel contribution to the Councillors of State who, poor, must reside in the Province of Bolzano. As if the state councilmen could not pay for a train ride. Then I can't understand the ratio of all this. The ratio of all this is to have seen senators who made the press releases reported locally saying: My amendment has been adopted. It is a beautiful one. Oh, what an important thing, oh, what a contribution we make to society, to the people and to the citizens, because my amendment is important. Is that what you had to do? If that's the case, you can do one good thing: you can all leave at ramengo, you can finally all go home. The only solution and the only hope for this country is that someone who cares about the interests of citizens and not the interests of those who have the power in Italy (the economic and financial interests that dominate politics) puts at the centre the collective and widespread interest rather than the particular interests. Only we can do this, because you did not do it as others did and you are absolutely not able to do it. There is only one hope for this country: that everyone goes home and that the government does it ourselves. [[Applause from the M5S Group. Many congratulations]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-11-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-911.ana.u73	Senator Bonfrisco is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-11-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-911.ana.u74	Mr President, many have already said this: we are at the last act of the representation of society, of work, of the economy and of the country that the PD governments have set up throughout the course of this legislature. So, even today we find ourselves commenting, unfortunately, asphyxiating measures, breathless, that will not lead to any result in terms of serious responses to the concrete economic and social expectations that have long stagnated in the country. So here we are at the last maneuver, on the eve of the election campaign, a campaign all bent, together with its budget law, to gather consensus among many micro-categories to go to feed the electoral basin of the current majority, or at least this is the attempt. We all remember, in this House, the budget law of last year, which was to be one of the engines towards the yes to the referendum and we all remember how it ended. Despite this highly critical approach, the whole opposition has maintained a responsible and constructive attitude. Some of the proposals discussed, in fact, although shy, we considered going in the right direction and supported them. We did so at the presentation of the text on the welfare of worn-out jobs, i.e. of worn-out workers, voting favorably even if worried by a text that risks, alas, promoting inequalities between those who are actually worn out and who, perhaps, just for having carried out seven years on the last ten, even not continuously, a customary job, such as that of teachers of asylum or other categories, can be considered as those who instead have done that usual job really all their lives. We did it on the baby bonus and we still regret it, as for Renzi's 80 euros, which at most will pay taxes and tributes, which families see grow more every year since you are there. Just one figure: in 2010 the tax pressure on Italian income was 41.6 percent; from 2016 and for the next years, at least until 2020, it is and will remain at 42.9 It is more than one point of tax burden on families. And, then, Renzi's 80 euros, its inequalities and its injustices, and the 80 euros of this baby bonus will not even pay for the increase in taxation on families that has been fueled in recent years. And how not to remember that, among other things, between the payments and the additional IRPEF, IRES, VAT and IRAP Italians will be called to pay to the treasury, by tomorrow morning, about 55 billion euros, as they remind us of the data of the CGIA of Mestre: 55 billion euros is the money that the Italians remove from their budget and their pockets to pay them to the Italian State and we all know - especially the Italian citizens know - what the Italian State returns to them. We also voted and supported maneuvers, even if shy, like the one on the bottom to give refreshment to the scams of Italian banks. Of course, it is ridiculous the amount allocated, by the same admission of the Government: 25 million euros for three years compared to hundreds of millions of euros stolen from savers from banks before their bankruptcy. If we add to this the judicial times that, as we know, are long or very long, the negative picture for those poor savers is complete. On the other hand - and this was very close to our hearts - the principle of the right to reimbursement, as requested by us in the parliamentary classrooms by Mr Augello's motion, signed by all the group leaders in this House, forced everyone, including the Government, to intervene in this budget law and not in another future decree-law. We have still supported the intervention on caregivers, first of all by preventing the PD from blowing the credit, which we saw during the meetings of the Budget Committee. [[Applause from Senators Bulgarelli and Montevecchi.]] It was attempted to misblow the merit of that proposal to Senator Bignami, who is the mother of that law, as well as being the mother of two youngsters in those conditions. [[Applause from Senators Bulgarelli, Casaletto, Fucksia, Montevecchi and Simeoni]] What about the 20 million euros, destined for the three years 2018-2020 to finance the needs of citizens who bear on their shoulders all the discomfort of family care to a serious disabled? It was necessary to allocate more and I am sure that this was the opinion of all my colleagues, partly because, to the eye, this divided sum for those entitled is reduced to only seven euros each. Seven euros to every citizen who bears that great, great, sometimes infernal discomfort. And instead of uploading all possible resources to this fund, sacrificing the needs of any other nature, you have chosen to please other audiences. Of course, we have not been able to vote in favour, by clearly expressing our opposition, to that soup of rules, some of which, by quoting them as you wrote them, point to your total political confusion. Of course we have not appreciated that in two norms the State itself, after having approved a reform of the code of the contracts, flagdierata like who knows which conquest and that today, after a few months, all now indicate how wrong and paralyzing of the operativity of the enterprises, when however it must carry out special interventions, that is, when it must behave like enterprise, like in occasion of the Universiadi to Salerno or of the championships of skis in Cortina previewed in this law of budget, derogate from that same code that he has wanted, disowning the flagship functionality. As if to say: companies must take on the increasingly heavy bureaucratic burden in order to participate in public competitions, but the state does not. The State shakes this burden with a simple amendment, which allows a Commissioner to derogate and not comply with that code. You've done everything against businesses. You have even rejected those amendments which seemed to me very easy to adopt and which tried to extend to professionals (another important part of our economy alongside companies) the rules on super depreciation or the possibility of accessing the new Sabatini, i.e. aid to that system of professions to improve their income and their competitiveness. Or, amendments that would give a little relief, such as the famous dry coupon, about which all the newspapers have spoken, to commercial companies. A measure, this, from the low cost, little more than a hundred million, that instead you preferred to spend in micro-stories to rain, a rain that will fall copious on carnival events for six million euros in the next three years or on the race track of Merano, where you have aimed about three and a half million euros: on the race track of Merano! The digitization of the archives of political organisations and trade unions for nine million euros, Mr President, has also seen us against it. We know that digitization is useful for everyone and - we would not miss it - it must arrive as quickly as possible. But digitization serves even more to the productive world, to the enterprises, that it is hoped can draw real benefits from that program 4.0 that you go waving but that it is still very far from being realized. In this budget law there is no repentance, much less industrious, on immigration and reception policies, those you have wanted so far. In fact, add resources to feed the entry of immigrants, albeit university students, spending five million euros in the next three years on agreements with the countries of the Islamic Cooperation Organization. Perhaps our boys are right, who go abroad to study and work better, because they know that this is no longer a country to their size. It is a country that loses its young people and that can only become impoverished, but because of the philosophy of your Government, we are all comforted by hosting other poor people and dividing poverty with poverty. But that text was only the appetizer of an even more disturbing text that the Government proposed in Article 32. After carrying out a moral suasion (and I don't want to say more) for many months on Cassa Depositi e Prestiti, the Government intends to circumvent the obstacle of the constraints that our participation in the European and international financial system imposes on us for the protection of the financial system. It's a bit like the procurement code rule: others have to apply it, but when the state has to do it, it may not even apply it. As many know, I am referring to the removal of the obstacle that has always prevented the Cassa depositi e loani from providing its guarantee for investments in Iran, entrusting to Invitalia the reckless task of using public resources, with an initial budget of as much as 120 million euros, more or less like the dry coupon, to provide the Iranian financial system with the guarantee of the Italian State. Our requests to withdraw that text and our criticisms were soon worth reminding everyone, during our work in the Commission, that, according to the Basel Index, the Islamic Republic of Iran is the world's first country for the risk of money laundering and terrorist financing, even before Afghanistan. In that country the corruption of the banking system is consolidated with the role of the revolutionary guards, the famous pasdarans, which we have known for many years, present in the banking and financial system of that country. And it is not over, Mr President: the most dramatic fact, which everyone knows and which our Government pretends not to know, is that the Islamic Republic of Iran has among its missions the destruction of the State of Israel, as evidenced by the great clock that is camping in the center of Tehran and that marks the time that is lacking for the destruction of Israel, by 2040, that is, in about 8,000 days, when the prophecy of Khomeini will come true. It is EUR 120 million to finance the ambiguity of a foreign policy that has weakened our country in the Atlantic and Western context. I do not even want to open up here the chapter on women's rights in that country and any other minority, because it is our country that we must think about. Don't be surprised, then, if you pay for your cynicism in the ballot box, when, in the aftermath of the Italian vote, you will be the only real responsible for extremist drifts or, worse, the massive abstention of the Italians from the vote. These are just some of the reasons why we, as the Federation of Liberty Group, are clearly voting against this useless budget law. [[Applause from Senator Fucksia]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-11-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-911.ana.u75	He's enlisted to speak Senator Candiani. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-11-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-911.ana.u76	Mr President, it has already been repeated many times during today's sitting, but I will do so again: it is clear that this is the final act of the legislature, which I believe is also the true final act of the Renzi Government. I am not talking about the Silveri Gentiloni Government, because we have known for a long time that it is a screen of continuity with respect to the policy of the Renzi Government and it is also physically, in people. We have seen the pseudo-replacement of some internal role, but the Boschi and the other Ministers have mostly remained and basically the scaffolding is always the same. At the end of a journey you have to ask two questions: what has been done and what is left as a legacy to those who follow. What has been done, Mr President, to be very brief, I would use a foreign terminology, but these days it is very fashionable: fake news. There is essentially a flagship of false news or at least totally inconsistent with the reality that the country lives, trying to create an illusion of economic recovery, of disappeared unemployment, of resolved situations, of the ability of our country to be convincing at European level. I should like to make a few brief comments on this: unfortunately, we have seen the effects, with the non-attribution in Milan of the seat of the European Medicines Agency (EMA), which has been assigned to Holland. We then move on to an international scenario, in which we know that, still today, we suffer the costs of the choice made by others, for the convenience of others, of the sanctions to Russia and we are still here, unfortunately spectators of the choices that other countries make in the Middle Eastern chessboard and on the southern shore of the Mediterranean, with good peace of Minister Minniti, who in recent weeks and months was taking the merit of solutions that, evidently, as we see today, had the duration and strength of resistance of a tissue paper. What, then, leaves the government? What are the inheritances? There may also be projects which have been initiated and which have not been completed. The goodness of an administration lies not only in doing the works, but also in designing works that those who come after will continue and, frankly, of projects on the field of which we can be satisfied and happy or on which we cannot trust. In fact, we see that in these hours and these days the government and part of the left, essentially the left PD of Renzi who is reembracing a part of the left maximalist from Berlin, is on positioning and repositioning for the ius soli. This is the project that leaves the Renzi-Gentiloni Silver Government to the future government. Congratulations, there's nothing to say. Italians certainly do not feel the need for it, but for you this is the solution of all the problems, because other problems, in Italy, do not exist: there is unemployment, economic recovery is strong, businesses are solid, good school has produced excellent results, students go easily to school, even without parents accompanying them. In short, Mr President, unfortunately this is the budget law that certifies the failure of a government to which, not for sure we, a part of the Italians had given confidence. This trust has been betrayed, starting from the reforms or pseudoreforms that the Renzi Government, at the beginning of its mandate, had declared as fundamental, except then to commit, on the thousand and broken days of its mandate, five hundred days for a constitutional reform that led to the collapse of that basic scaffolding. A constitutional reform that, in turn, is the paradigm of Renzi's way of thinking: the important thing is that everything responds to him, the important thing was to build a system in which the announcement should consolidate the Premier's credibility and not necessarily be corresponding to a result in the real country. How it ended then we see it and Renzi should learn a little more, perhaps, from the story that it was, because, as Churchill said, when the citizens go to vote, they do not vote on the question of a referendum, but on the person who proposed it and we have had plenty of proof of this. Mr President, by reviewing the things done by the government that we would have liked to find in this financial manoeuvre, we are even faced with a reverse: there was a certainty, a microcertainty for families that was the baby bonus and we find it in the half-budget, no more 80 euros, but 40 euros and more simply for a year to follow. This is precisely at the moment when ISTAT publishes the data that attest all the difficulties of the families to carry out their task and to give a new generation to the country; a country that even loses births and records a demographic decrease; a country in which the young people - last year more than 100,000 - were forced to emigrate abroad to find a job; a country that instead brings them into their cities, distributing them through the prefects, forces that I call employment, or rather, ethnic substitution: illegal foreigners. 18.34 (Follows CANDIANS). Madam President, today in the 14th Commission the hearing of the Ambassador of the United Kingdom was held and some of my fellow Senators also asked a bit of a malicious question to try to have a satisfaction that did not come. One of those questions basically tended to have the ambassador, the representative of the United Kingdom, declare that, once he left the eurozone, the economy - according to that PD senator - could only go wrong. The answer that has arrived has been to hold the fellow Senator of the Democratic Party, because the ambassador has placidly declared: look at your numbers, because you will find that, since we left the eurozone with Brexit, there has been greater immigration to the United Kingdom and greater emigration from other European countries to the United Kingdom. Indeed, there has been an increase in the number of young Italians who emigrate to the United Kingdom. This should make us think a lot, because once again - I repeat the same term - it is about fake news: putting around the history of grasshoppers and the seven Bible plagues that fall on the United Kingdom because it came out of the European Union does not correspond not only to sentiment, to what people perceive, but to the reality of the facts, because young Italians emigrate and go to that country, where the proposals and the ability to make economy are more credible than what the Government can do in Italy. It is about these hours the news of a young mother who was fired by Ikea: it is the paradigm exactly opposite to what Renzi has told us in recent years. Renzi told us - and Gentiloni Silveri goes after him - that we must encourage foreign investment in Italy because this creates more work. We always say that it is necessary to ensure that Italians have confidence and spend their resources in Italy, that families still want to invest in Italy and that companies still want to do business in our country, because when a multinational arrives it absolves a financial interest. The consequence is that the employment created in this way, 99.9% of the times is not stable, but it is dependent on a financial interest: if this is satisfied, employment is maintained, but if that financial interest falls, precariousness becomes the watchword, dismissals go down and social protection goes down. We need that Italy made by artisans, by small entrepreneurs, by those who with the power of knowing how to do and with the credibility of those who, when they spend a word, keep it, do business and create stable employment. Mr President, one of the things we would have needed most in this budget law and in these last legislative passages is the regaining of credibility by politicians. Unfortunately, there is a further loss of credibility in this budget law. The list of marchettes scattered here and there, made by the senators who preceded me, passing from the single initiative of a few thousand euros to that of a few million, gives the idea of a policy that, approaching the electoral deadline, nothing else wants to do but wink clientele and, for God's sake, there is need for everything, except for this. I also understand that a large part of the majority senators are unfortunately used to this, and I also understand that they feel legitimated by a leader like Renzi who said that, in case he lost the referendum, he would leave politics, followed by the statements of Boschi and others of the party that we well know. After a few months, however, Renzi came back and said he had rethinked it; on the contrary, he said that asking him to come back would be the Italians, his voters, his section, the members of the Democratic Party for which he was forced to stay. But who makes you stay? [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group]] But go away, go away seriously and prove that the politicians keep their word because, doing so, unfortunately, Renzi damages not only himself, but the entire credibility of those who make politics. Our luck and Renzi's misfortune is that we do politics seriously, because for us commitments are a fundamental thing and for this reason we tell our fellow citizens to kick this government out in the next elections, because in this budget law it has once again betrayed expectations. On the contrary, we intend to go to the Government to cancel the mistakes made by the Renzi Government, but, above all, to make concretely those choices of turn that are needed in a bogged down country. Where has the reform of the judicial system ended, so as to be sure of the penalty and convictions for those who have cheated citizens with banks, President? With this budget law you slap yourself further and you mock the citizens damaged by the robberies done too often with the complicity of the party sectors to which you belong, namely the left and what was before the Democratic Party, which is behind the Mount of the Paschi of Siena and everything else. Of these robberies it is not called to answer if not a few of those responsible, among other things simply with financial penalties and we know, unfortunately, that for someone will come the prescription. You have provided in the budget law a few change, 50 million euros, which means a few hundred euros divided for those damaged by the scams of banks, which can only be obtained after the passage in court of a sentence in favour of them of the credit institution and of those who have cheated. All of this, Mr President, in a judicial system in which civil cases last - if that is all right - seven, eight, nine or ten years, if there has not been a prescription in the meantime. That is the lack of seriousness. In this budget law we presented to the government requests for simple things, but they had to give certainty. I am thinking of the situation, which has been dragging on for years now, with regard to the application of the Bolkenstein Directive in Italy and of what damage it has caused to the bathing sector and to the walking trade sector. I am thinking of another sector, public transport and taxis, which is waiting for a serious reform on the part of the government. In this financial maneuver you wanted to mix also the decree milleproroghe and it has arisen, let's say, a big mess. You put everything in here and it became basically what was once called an omnibus, to which you attached, time by time, a wagon and you can't even understand which way this train will go, except derail. But, in the interest of the country, we hope that at least it will stop before and not derail it. We told the government to stop. We have tabled amendments to prevent the implementation of the Bolkenstein directive from leaving tens of thousands of operators in the tourism sector on the brink. What did the government tell us? No, we're pulling straight. This is despite the fact that the Portuguese and the Spanish have made legislation that goes in exactly the opposite direction, protecting their market. There is another vulnus that comes to light in this bill of budget. While the other European countries, before being pro-European, are French, German, English or Portuguese, we Italians instead, for an inability on the part of the left of Government to be critical of something that does not make the interest of citizens, but only that of lobbying, we continue to do the first of the class. Continue to make Italians make the first of the class by applying the rules that other countries disapply, with the result that we all pay a double price. We make the first of the class in a class of donkeys [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group]] or even in a class that takes advantage of our being the first in the class, which then pay the price. It is useless for Renzi to say that when he arrived he had a natural amount of infringements of Community laws which he then resolved. Madam President, if the resolution of infringements of Community law means forcing our traders, our entrepreneurs, our country to kneel before the German banks or the finance of a country such as Luxembourg, which has a tax again differentiated from the Italian one, this means that it does not understand that Europe is either a Europe of peoples or has no reason to exist. It's time to end this illusion. In this budgetary manoeuvre we would have liked to see certainties for our farmers. We have tabled amendments to remind us that we have an agriculture which, when Mr Martina speaks on television, is a flower to wear, but when it has to be helped, it is forgotten. You have forgotten that you are applying excise duties on gas oil for agriculture which make it totally impossible to do agriculture in the foothills. This is despite the fact that resolutions have also been adopted in the Commission. Madam President, I shall conclude. As I said, there is a lack of credibility on the part of the government. You are always the same: you are those of Banca Etruria and Monte dei Paschi. You want to change your face and raise your eyes to the sky! You are always the same and this will be your condemnation: to have nailed the country with means and half-breeds to an economic recovery that is not there; to the image of a country that is shooting while it is not, thinking of deluding that the problems are solved as you have done with the earthquake zones, sending the cameras to resume a cut of tape, but forgetting that in 90 percent of those areas still today expects that they simply move the rubble. Those people, with dignity, ask to start again and it is the same dignity that exists throughout the country, where our businesses ask to start again. Less bureaucracy and let us work: this is the extreme synthesis that you feel in the earthquake zones and in any corner of the country, that you hear from any trader in those areas and from any entrepreneur in this country. I repeat, less bureaucracy and let us work. The sooner you get out of the box and the sooner we give the Italians a serious alternative of government, able to be respected also in Europe. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group and Senator Bignami]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-11-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-911.ana.u77	He's enlisted to speak Senator Barani. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-11-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-911.ana.u78	Madam President, the end of Senator Candiani's speech reminds me of a way of saying about my parts, the land of Lunigiana: sometimes those who think of giving them, take them. So what will happen after the elections will be the sovereign people who decide it. Apart from that, ladies and gentlemen, many of us will be listening these days. The great Italian tabloid press has looked at our work, dusting up all the anti-parliamentary armament, from ridicule to indignation for the hard work of weaving that we have been doing in the Commission for fifteen days, twenty-four hours out of twenty-four hours. Hearing the speeches that many colleagues have made, it occurred to me that the philosopher said that the wise man looks at the moon indicated by his finger, while others stop at his finger. According to the great Italian press, this will be remembered as the financial maneuver of the ALA Group. We are proud and proud and we will also tell you why. We believe that it is one of the most important financial manoeuvres of the last ten years, having revived the economy for a real recovery. Of course, there will still be a lot, but a lot to do. Yet little was enough - a bit of culture - to understand that the management of the electoral cycle has always been, in the history of Western democracies, one of the most difficult moments to face. It is a characteristic that is not only Italian, but it concerns most of those countries that rely on free elections. It is a far from perfect system, but, as Winston Churchill recalled, democracy is the worst form of government, except for all those forms that have been experienced so far. He said this in the years 1945-1946, after fascism, communism, Nazism and populism. We must be aware of this if we want to be sure of our efforts and to arrive at a serene evaluation of our work. In fact, democracy is made not in virtual ballot boxes, but in the real ones and in the two assemblies and in the committees of Parliament, which confront each other without the theory of suspicion that others, enemies, are the ones who always make mistakes. The first thing to say is that - we speak of course as politicians and not as adventurers who happened here by chance - all public finance balances have been respected in the financial maneuver under consideration and that this result was not taken for granted. The European Commission itself has had to take note of this, while urging the Government to come to greater financial prudence, to which - we are sure as a Group - we will be able to respond with the strength of those numbers which do not coincide with the wishes of the Commission, which are all too closed in a perspective which I would call autarchic. Just think of the unconventional measures taken by Governor Draghi or the current discussion at the US Congress on fiscal reform wanted by Trump. It is a country that, unlike the eurozone, has decided to focus everything on development, even if it has to determine a public finance deficit equal to four times the European one and a strong deficit in the balance of payments: 2.7 percent of GDP in 2017, against a European surplus of 3 percentage points. This figure explains the continuing weakness of the dollar, but also the high GDP and the lack of unemployment (to zero) in the United States. It comes to mind that the budgets they make in the United States, in Italy they made Bettino Craxi and Paolo Cirino Pomicino. And Italy was the fifth economic power in the world. But if we turn our eyes to the past, the comparison can be even more enlightening. We go down only to the Amato Government, which is an authoritative member of the Constitutional Court, which, in 2001, with its latest financial law, brought the budget deficit to 3.1 percent, although the initial forecasts predicted an imbalance of little more than 1.1 percent: two more points. Compared to the previous year, the deficit was almost EUR 30 billion. Mr Tremonti certainly did better. In 2007 there was a drastic reduction in the deficit, mainly due to the increased extraordinary revenues as a result of the pardon; yes, that pardon that served Italy and the Italians much for the recovery. Those measures undoubtedly favored the evaders, but they forced the same to emerge: they pulled them out. Thus was created that famous little treasure, that the next minister of the economy, Tommaso Padoa-Schioppa, was able to administer with minor assailant for the management of the coffers of the State. Of the law of stability of 2012, that mountain, better not to speak. The deflationary policies induced by the Monti government led to a slight reduction of the deficit, about 4 billion euros, but the effects of that policy were devastating. Italy moved against the other countries of the eurozone, fueling that crisis of which only today, after five years, is seen the end. All thanks to that law of stability, because the law of stability must be read. The comparison with the past years allows us, therefore, to look at our work with greater serenity. We have done everything we can, taking into account the electoral cycle, all the more so if we consider the years of a parliamentary term that saying troubled is perhaps a euphemism. The past elections had given Italy a country largely ungovernable, characterized by deep social fractures, mainly due to the mistakes of previous governments; fractures that had caused the entry into Parliament of populist forces that had profoundly altered the previous bipolar balance. This resulted in a situation of complete ungovernability, despite the use of constitutional engineering formulas, which did not, however, have a common programmatic basis. From here the troubles of a majority always in balance, in which they coexisted opposite drives, ready to explode in the cathartic desire for a reckoning. Suffice it to think of the forcings - the clear ballot - that led to the decadence of Silvio Berlusconi, treated as Craxi: protagonists of the Italian political life that they wanted to eliminate by judicial means, with a real coup d'état. As far as we are concerned, my Group has always tried to guarantee that minimum of governability in the interest of the country (said our leader, Denis Verdini, that we were 14 ministers without portfolio), in order to avoid the recourse to the early elections (yes, we prevented them), that would reward precisely the anti-system forces and reproduced in Italy the Spanish syndrome, that in 1920 had already done a lot of trouble, mortal. It was a danger that a country with the highest European debt could not afford. We have done our duty, without asking for anything in return, stoically bearing the insults of so much of the well-thinking press, but alien from considering the drama of the Italian situation; also bearing the insults that have been made to us in the Commission and that have been addressed to us here. Yes, we have also allowed money to be given to flooded churches: we are proud and proud of it, because we want to go and pray in those churches; we do not just want to go and earn and make clowns in the theatres or to play comedians. Today, even thanks to our unquestioned sacrifices, the situation has slightly improved, we should ask the press for the bill, but it would be a worthless effort. When ideology becomes false consciousness, there is no hope for an operation of truth. It will take time, but in the end merits and demerits will be recognized. In the explanation of vote we will tell the Italians analytically what we have managed to bring home in this draft budget law, which in the 100 most important points saw the Commission vote unanimously, and moreover the representatives of the minority raced to sign and announce their vote in favour; moreover, these votes in favour have also arrived on our amendments and on our initiatives and of course in the explanation of vote we will take into account, both Parliament and Italy. [[Applause from the ALA Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-11-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-911.ana.u79	She's enlisted to speak Senator Ricchiuti. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-11-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-911.ana.u80	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, first of all I would like to send a supportive embrace, a message of encouragement, to the workers and the tailors of the Soviet Channels company, from my parts in Monza-Brianza. At the Canali those workers are conducting a hard battle against a dull and narrow master who wants to put them on the street, even though the Canali is a thriving company. In the same way, my thoughts go to the strikers of Amazon: Matteo Renzi and the PD are with the management of that company, so much so that the number two of that giant put it to the government. We stand beside those who work, without if and without but, so our heart and minds are with the workers of Amazon, Whirpool, SDA-Express and Alpitour and all the companies that download on the workers managerial choices that have nothing to do with the performance of revenues or the economic situation. The budget maneuver, which represents the main political act to decide the economic choices of the country, should have started from those realities, that is from the reality of the country, from its dramas and its hopes, because it is from this approach that the courage and quality of a ruling class are measured. Let us never forget that the provisions contained in the draft budget law look with concern and hope at workers, citizens, young people and the poor. Their future for so much depends on our choices: let's never forget it! Instead we are faced with a measure imposed by the majority of center-right PD-Verdini-Alfano, which makes us take steps back and in the most disparate directions. There is a veil of propaganda that covers a plethora of interventions of little impact, localisms and peculiarities hidden between the folds of the amendments. It is indeed an empty collage of concrete commitments, with the only objective of foraging the consensus around Renzi's project, that is to say the cocoon of owl lists around his PdR! In order to consolidate ALA's support, commercial proposals were approved and the pardon was about to return; there is a partial refinancing of the baby bonus, otherwise another piece of majority would have returned to the Right, and then there are 60 million, instead of 600 that would be necessary, for the overcoming of the superticket, to try to give a splash of red color, although knowing that it is a fraud. The amendments tabled and adopted by the scandalous majority, such as the amendment to the anti-mafia code, exempting agricultural companies receiving European funding of up to EUR 25,000 from presenting anti-mafia certification, despite the fact that it is well known that mafias have strong interests and, among others, are also targeted at this type of funding. In addition, regasification companies have also been exempted from payment of the IMU by using a disconcerting authentic interpretation of a rule of the 2016 Stability Act. As a result, the municipalities where these plants are installed have been deprived of the possibility of taking millions of euros to the benefit of large Italian and international companies. The fact, in addition to being disconcerting in itself, is in clear contradiction with what the Finance Guard itself claims, according to which these companies should be obliged to pay the IMU. There is also an inexplicable derogation from the code of contracts that concerns in particular the World Championships and the World Ski Cup in Cortina d'Ampezzo, as well as the Universiadi of 2019 in Naples. Everything will happen without public tendering, in spite of the fact that this will inevitably produce a litigation, given the blatant violation of every canon of transparency and the fight against corruption. It also establishes an interregional park of the Po Delta; all without having involved the territories, associations and resident populations. There are 21 recognised environmental societies that have expressed their opposition, but you have gone on without listening to anyone. Moreover, there are millions and millions of marches to various institutions and foundations; rain finance, prebende necessary to the various senators for the future electoral campaign: 400,000 euros for three years for an anonymous church in Aulla; another 100,000 for 2018 and 400,000 in 2019 for another abbey always in Aulla; 400,000 to a foundation of Trieste (money however removed from the fund for research); one million euros in 2019 and 2020 at the University of Padua and the Federico II of Naples, amendment equally shared and subscribed by Venetian senators and bells. Not to mention more than 3 million euros for the Merano racetrack, and so on. So we think of gaining consensus in the electoral market, while the credibility of this ruling class collapses. Let us not complain, then, about populism and anti-politics, because the main way is that which you have traced. The text before this House today is unsatisfactory, it does not respond to the need to determine a turning point in the economy and it does not make the radical choices that have long been needed. It lacks, that is, any design design for Italy in the coming years. There is no strategy, no project, no vision of Italian society. Structural measures of a universal nature are not being taken which give support, first and foremost, to the poorest parts of the country. On the contrary, this maneuver is inspired solely by contingent and purely electoral aims. Our point of view is exactly the opposite. We must start from a photograph of the economic and social conditions of Italy and, only on this basis, then, make the choices, decide the priorities, evaluate the effective impact of the measures included in the budget law. Ten years after the start of the crisis, Italian GDP is still below the 2007 level by about 8 points. The accumulated loss is approximately €800 billion. All the main macroeconomic data tell us about a deep impoverishment of the country, a heavy difficulty of many households, even in areas historically less fragile from a social point of view. And we all know that it will be dramatically difficult to recover in the coming years the collapse of the occupation suffered by the country in recent years. Problems affect both the demand side (lower consumption by five percent, almost 30% investment), and the supply side, with a further loss of labour productivity. In recent years, both by the Renzi Government and that of Gentiloni Silveri, there has been a strict insistence on pursuing a policy of supply, based on the simultaneous reduction of expenditure and taxes as a way to recover growth. Thus Italy has incredibly wasted even the flexibility margins obtained in Europe. The tax decontribution measures, particularly in the jobs act, did not allow the job lost to be recovered, as demonstrated by the widespread distribution of fixed-term contracts. A trend confirmed, however, during our hearings, also by the representatives of the Parliamentary Budget Office. This country, which continues to suffer after years of crisis, needs concrete and courageous answers: we cannot continue with social cuts and suffering. Article 1 therefore presented a series of precise proposals, some of the most qualified built together with colleagues of the Italian Left. All of them have the sign of social equity and only for this reason they would have deserved a rigorous and punctual examination. For example, we have imagined a different use of the resources of the fund for the investments referred to in Article 95, centered on a synergistic action built on several interventions: restoration and maintenance of the territory, seismic risk, improvement of the urban suburbs, reclamation of the territories, recovery of public structures to be used for housing, social and productive use. And more: investments in the energy efficiency of buildings in public administration, strengthening local public transport and sustainable mobility, especially for regional commuting and iron and steel transport. Finally, investments for the construction of kindergartens or for the safety of school buildings. But then there is the decisive theme for us of the promotion and dignity of work, it is a decisive character of our identity and of our political action. We propose structural policies to encourage work and, in particular, permanent recruitment. Our proposals are serious, sustainable and highly articulated. To begin with: re-introduce the causality in order to be able to use fixed-term contracts. And then: introduction of a conditioning for the hiring bonus, in the sense of previewing sanctions in the case in which the employers who benefit from the contribution bonus of 50 percent for the hirings then fire the workers in the three years following that of the enjoyment of the benefit of the State. These are speculators, not employers. Again: sanctions for misuse of traineeships. The amount of the penalty must be proportional to the seriousness of the offence, particularly if the training purpose is violated or if it is claimed to replace personnel in sickness, maternity or vacation. We also considered recognising the decontribution to the recruitment of young people on an indefinite basis only for full-time recruitment. Then there is the serious and rich issue of economic and social implications of the relocation of business activities receiving aid from the State. Personally I dealt with it for the story K-Flex, an Italian company specialized in the production of elastomer materials for thermal and acoustic insulation. A world leader in the quality and technological innovation of its products, which has suddenly decided to move production to the plant in Poland. One of our amendments on this matter cost nothing. It was virtuous, sustainable and very precise: companies operating on the territory, Italian or foreign, which received aid from the State, must return them in case of relocation (even within the European Union) of the activities in the three years following receipt of the contribution. The amendment also provided for specific sanctions for companies over 1,000 workers who do not respect the constraints of employment levels and business continuity. That is why we have also proposed the creation of a fund (e.g. for the granting of tax incentives) for companies employing workers on the move by companies which relocate to foreign countries, including the European Union. We have also called for an increase in the fund for asbestos victims with the extension of the beneficiaries' audience, but also for the rehabilitation of public buildings which require asbestos reclamation. We have also proposed stricter and more effective sanctions for those who use part-time employment in a fictitious way, but who conceal full-time workers, but also incisive sanctions to combat the scourge of contributory evasion. And we come to the issue of pensions. Since 1996, the public regime has seen greater forms of inequality and social exclusion suffered by many elderly people in conditions of fragility and poverty; groups of citizens who often fail even to access the social allowance. Our Group has made several proposals, including the one in which it is expected that the expenditure savings resulting from monitoring the applications of the Social EPA will be used to finance the Social Fund for Training and Employment referred to in Decree-Law No 185 of 2008. The Government for its part has proposed a more complex intervention, introducing social security and welfare measures in favour of workers engaged in heavy activities, in practice providing for a revision of the mechanism of adaptation of the requirements of access to retirement linked to increases in life expectancy. This is a temporary, non-structural and unsatisfactory measure. In our view, much more had to be done. In fact, it has been chosen to involve an audience of less than 5% of the total workforce, and above all there are no rules to guarantee effective dignity for the future social security of young people. For this reason Article 1 strongly supports the mobilization of the CGIL in the squares for December 2. But there is another very crucial issue for our future, the environment. Once again, there is a complete lack of an overall strategy that combines environmental safety requirements and economic growth at the same time. We then intervened on the right to study, proposing new funding at both regional and state level. The aim is to strengthen the ordinary functioning fund of universities, including in order to ensure new pay shots for university teachers, as well as measures for ATA staff. Indeed, this manoeuvre could have been an opportunity for a genuine refinancing of the national health system. This is all the more so because our health spending on GDP is lower than the European average and is further decreasing. Not to mention the need to make it possible for both medical and nursing staff to be employed by abolishing the constraints on the staff expenditure ceiling. The tax benefits for capital companies in amateur sport are also very serious. In practice we have chosen to introduce the logic of profit, in fact charging - with the halving of IRES to their advantage - the gymnasium of the rich in the city centers to the unemployed on the outskirts. On the other hand, on the best side of the world of sport came the demand to recognize the social value of sport. A concept that is completely unknown to Minister Lotti. Ladies and gentlemen, in the light of these considerations, the political sense of the main battles of our Group is clear. Ours is a radically alternative approach to yours. Through numerous amendments and substantive proposals, and with a very intensive work done in the referent Commission, the position of Article 1 is clear before Parliament and the country. We say no to this budget law because we are close to the social suffering of the country; no, because we oppose a policy of bonuses, gifts and electoral tips; no, because we have a precise idea for the future: Italy can only change with more just and supportive policies in favour of work with new safeguards and rights, with greater equity in health, school and research, and with new ecological policies. You vote for this bad law. Mr President, I would like to add the text of the speech to the Minutes because I have skipped a few parts. [[Applause from the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and ……]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-11-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-911.ana.u81	The Presidency shall authorise it accordingly.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-11-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-911.ana.u82	Senator Casaletto is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-11-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-911.ana.u83	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, budgetary law is the final act of this parliamentary term; from its structure we can understand the political action of the past five years. Let's retrace them briefly: the legislature began on the wave of the Monti Government, the one that for mainstream media and therefore for public opinion He saved Italy from the abyss. Actually, today we know that was a resounding fake news. For years the European Commission has been reminding us in its annual report on fiscal sustainability in the eurozone countries that the sustainability of Italian accounts is the best of all in the long term, the result of policies to reduce public spending and prepare for entry into the euro that Italy adopted since the 1990s. But then why did the government continue, and with the Renzi Government has accelerated, the containment of public spending? Simple: the ECB imposed it with the famous letter Trichet-Draghi of summer 2011. That letter is still Italy's political leader. In there there was written everything that was initiated by Monti and carried out in this legislature: the abolition of Article 18, the structural precariousness of the labour market, the reform of the pension system, the reduction of the wages of workers, implemented through structural unemployment of more than 30%, considering the discouraged workers, that is those who have stopped looking for work, but who are never counted in official data, and therefore the privatization of primary public services. A terrible spending review. These policies have created 5 million poor people and the failure of more than 100,000 businesses. They're war numbers. Never since the end of World War II has Italy been in such a dramatic situation. And with the budget law under discussion, the government of this legislature, which is a ferry to a Europe that will feed us, pursues the same political line, crystallizing an alleged recovery that is nothing more than stabilization of the economic cycle within a slow and inexorable deflationary spiral. The only concern is to meet the requirements of the European Union, aimed solely at the destruction of domestic demand, concealed by the containment of public accounts and, therefore, not at the development of the country. In the last five years, however, there have been two events, planned and foreseeable, which will render government stabilisation efforts in vain. The first is the Italian banking crisis. Contrary to what the mainstream media tell us, the responsibilities for the substantial failure of many Italian credit institutions are not to be charged to an ineffective control of the supervisory bodies, Banca d'Italia and Consob in the first place. While the shortcomings of these bodies in this matter are serious and their responsibilities must be established, we know that much depends on the European Banking Union, which has taken down our credit system. The failure has depended on the governmental choices that have led to the adoption of economic measures - as I have mentioned before - procyclical ones, that is, they have aggravated the general economic conditions with the policies of austerity. These policies, creating unemployment and widespread failures, prevented banks from re-entering loans and loans, destabilizing the entire banking system. Secondly, the Bail in was adopted, in addition to anticipating Community rules, as if it wished to boast that it was the first in the class. Well, the bail in is the Trojan horse of the great foreign financial groups, who will proceed to phagocite - as is already happening with the NPLs - the Italian banking system, making even blameless accountants the weight of the bad choices that prohibit the intervention of the State in the resolution of bank crises. The second event is the reaction of society to these policies, incompatible not only with the Constitution, but above all with common sense. Abroad we have seen it especially with Brexit and Trump's election in the USA: the people and, in particular, the middle class - the big chicken to pluck - reject anti-work and pro-market policies. We see it today in Germany, which is incapable of creating a government structure that does not include political forces which are strongly opposed to so-called European integration. In short, the failure of ordoliberalism in the German-led European Union - and in other respects, throughout the Western world - is in the eyes of everyone. On the contrary, this Government continues to pursue the interests of large financial groups. Globalisation crushes wages and in this downward race the question is as follows: how are we going to buy those products created by multinationals? That is why it becomes essential to reverse the course of economic choices and to produce a genuine income policy, the only way to restart consumption. And this budget law does not do so, compromising the Italian socio-economic and productive fabric that will not last until 2019, despite the orders of Brussels. That is why I shall vote against it. [[Applause from the Mixed Group and Senator De Pin]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-11-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-911.ana.u84	He's enlisted to speak Senator Panizza. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-11-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-911.ana.u85	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, representatives of the Government, the financial manoeuvre for 2018 is based on the best wishes, but it remains strongly conditioned, despite the signs of a well-established recovery, by the narrowness of the resources available. It is a maneuver that contains several positive measures, which seek to promote development on the one hand and social inclusion on the other, but which unfortunately still fails to satisfy the needs of our country in full. On the text presented by the Government, scrupulous work has been done by the Budget Commission and President Tonini, whom I also thank for having accepted several of our amendments which are strategic and not only for our territory. A sincere thanks goes also to Deputy Minister Morando, as well as to all the representatives of the Government who succeeded in the work in the Commission and proved available for comparison and to understand the importance of our requests. I am pleased to record some measures in the direction advocated by the self-government. I am referring, in particular, to the renewal of ecobonus, with deductions for energy redevelopment and building recovery and anti-seismic measures. These are statements which we had called for with a specific motion approved by this House. I also register with satisfaction the extension of all the energy and building deductions to the IACP and assimilated entities, particularly important novelty for the Province of Trento and the introduction of the deduction for the recovery of green spaces. Among the positive measures, I also mention the renewal of measures for young people who deal with agriculture; the establishment of food districts to promote the quality and competitiveness of our agri-food industry, a strategic framework for the growth of the country; the Extraordinary National Plan for the realization of multi-target invasions and for the dissemination of water saving instruments for agricultural and civil uses; the sterilization of the increase in the VAT rate and excise duties for 2018, the extension of the so-called measures of super depreciation and hyper depreciation, which allow companies and professionals to increase the share of depreciation of capital goods against new investments made. Also important are the refinancing of the so-called culture card for young people; the increase from 7,500 to 10,000 euros of the limit that does not help to form the taxable income for the sports and artistic executives who operate on a non-professional basis; the tax discounts for the bookstores. In the field of culture, we and other colleagues in the Democratic Party had proposed some measures in favour of volunteering, which had been promised both in the Commission and in the House at the time of the approval of the delegation law on entertainment, with precise agendas approved. I am referring to the possibility of deducting expenditure on musical, theatrical and coreautic training, exactly as is the case for those who are engaged in sports activities; to the demand to restore the IRPEF's 2 per thousand for cultural associations, inexplicably cancelled for this year, or to requests for bureaucratic relief of volunteering, which in many realities risks giving up under the pressure of obligations that are sometimes unsustainable for a small association. To the Government I renew the request to enhance more the cultural quality and the social role of volunteering that, with passion and competence, operates free of charge in every reality of our territory and that, if we go on like this, we risk to discourage irreversibly and to endanger its survival, especially in the most peripheral and disadvantaged realities. With regard to operations to support the company, I stress the refinancing of the so-called new Sabatini for soft loans on new machinery and support for investments of the Industry Plan 4.0, as well as support for the internationalization of the production system and the Extraordinary Plan for Made in Italy. I am still quoting the contributory and social security benefits for new permanent recruitments; measures to promote vocational training and apprenticeship; measures to extend the scope of some social shock absorbers; the extension of fire-fighting for hotels approved with our amendment; and then the institution - requested by the organisations operating in the field of disability and which I myself strongly supported - of the fund for the so-called family caregiver, aimed at the proper recognition of the social and economic value of non-professional care for disabled or disabled people. Significant for the reality from which I come is also the support to the historical and traditional carnivals, which are particularly widespread from us. I also welcome the fact that, at last, taxation has been introduced for companies operating in the digital sector, giving a first response to needs that have long emerged also at international and European level. Positive are also the relief fund for unjustly damaged savers; the partial cut of supertickets; the bonus for newborns; the pension benefits for heavy jobs. Finally, in recent days I had appreciated the inclusion in the tax decree of the rule that exempts agricultural companies that benefit from EU funds up to five thousand euros from the presentation of the anti-mafia certificate. All the more so, today I proudly welcome the Commission's approval of my sub-amendment, supported by the Group for the Autonomies, which extends to 1 January 2019 the requirement of the certificate for European funds of less than 25,000 euros. It is a commitment that goes to meet our request to arrive at a definitive overcoming of the problem that - as we have repeatedly denounced - greatly worries the agricultural organizations and the same institutions, because it affects a very large number of companies, causing a strong delay in payments. The sub-amendment adopted, however, only partially solves the problem. I hope there will be room to make the exemption final for everyone or, at least, to increase the exemption threshold. I would now like to refer to what Mrs Ricchiuti has said, inviting her to go further in her words. I come from a reality like Trentino where there is not a single mafia situation, and much less exists in my valley. If you want to control the mafia attitudes of companies, just ask the public authorities to check directly through their offices, because the judicial offices are directly connected with the public offices. It makes no sense to send hundreds of thousands of companies to court to ask for anti-mafia certificates, clogging all the offices, when just a simple telematic link to get those data. This means creating unnecessary bureaucracy and certainly not eliminating the mafia, which, moreover, in my own territory - given that the rule was proposed by me, along with other senators, such as my colleague, Mr Valdostano - does not even exist. I would therefore ask Mrs Ricchiuti to inform herself before speaking and perhaps also to attend some farmers, to understand what a farm is. The anti-mafia code is one of the important measures of this legislature and the actions of law enforcement and prevention must never fail. The institutions, however, through the judicial authority, can automatically control the position of individual applicants, without forcing them to a heavy waste of time, which can be avoided. The same applies to the request on my approved agenda to exempt land parcels in mountain areas of less than 5,000 square metres from the registration of comodate contracts in order to obtain agricultural fuels. It is, only for Trentino, more than 100,000 particles and, if the farms had to make a contract of convenience registered for each, they would have to close, because they would certainly be at loss. As far as the special autonomy is concerned, I would point out the approval of some of our amendments aimed at enhancing the virtuous experiences put in place by our territories and which could also be useful to other regions, especially those that aspire to greater autonomy. I am referring, for example, to the recognition of the full local operation of the regional complementary and integrated funds. This is a particularly important result for us, which has been awaited for years and which is strongly urged by the trade union and employers' organizations and institutions. The amendment introduces significant and fundamental innovations also for the territorial health supplementary funds, providing the possibility for workers to join, through territorial or company agreements, health funds other than national ones. The funds, however, also function as a driving force for economic and social development, through the payment of the substitute tax and the investments made in favour of the territory. The same is true of the amendment which gives our territories competence over hydroelectric concessions. This is a further step forward in proposing innovative energy policies and therefore indirectly in the economic and environmental context. The rule, introduced in the Commission, strengthens the role of local authorities also in terms of the relapse of the financial resources deriving from the concessions. Finally, in addition to the positive changes introduced in the budgetary maneuver, I must stress that other demands made by the productive categories to simplify the enormous burden of bureaucracy and reduce the excessive tax burden, as well as the demands of the trade unions and social organizations, which called for a more effective revision of the pension system, could not even be taken into account or could not find acceptance, due to lack of resources. However, the direction taken by the government and the 5th Commission is the right one, and I hope that the next budgetary manoeuvres, which will be adopted in a context which I hope will be more financially favourable, can also address other crucial problems for the country that could not be considered here. [[Applause from Senator Laniece]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-11-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-911.ana.u86	He's enlisted to speak Senator Bocchino. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-11-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-911.ana.u87	Madam President, I would like to speak in general debate on the budget law by bringing to the House some of the impressions that I have gained from attending, together with many of my colleagues, the Budget Commission in the long marathons that have seen us engaged in the past few days, until early this morning, when the work ended. And I want to do this, above all, by taking a special look at the university and research sectors, and not only because they are the ones I am most concerned with in the 7th Commission, but also because I think that, when we arrive at the last budget law of the 17th Parliament, we have a duty to take stock of what has happened in this area in recent years. Well, Madam President, what I saw in the Budget Committee is in complete continuity with what happened during the previous stability laws and with the action of the Government in these areas. There has been the most complete lack of a long-term strategy and an overall vision that the Government should give to the country, precisely in the sectors that are at the basis of the economic and employment revival of a Western country. We have noted the total lack of research policy. I have seen so many patches, here and there, to problems even right; correct patches - for charity - to which it is difficult to oppose, but always patches are: partial and absolutely insufficient to give concrete answers to people who have dedicated their lives to the search for a real mission, and not for themselves, but for the whole country. This is research: not a mission for oneself, but a service to the country and the whole community. I've seen you browse on sight, crawl in the dark, look for change during the night. For God's sake, here too, how can we oppose the goal of getting some extra change for researchers? This is the activity that I have witnessed with my own eyes, far from what must be a programming for objectives; far from what should be a reconnaissance of the problems and numbers of which the university and research system is made. So, Madam President, I would like to start with the numbers of our universities and our research, perhaps cold and dry. Let us not forget, however, that there are people behind the numbers - I stress this once again - who have dedicated their lives to our country. I want to start by outlining the results of a research that was carried out by the Department of Italian Left Knowledge and presented during an event that we organized here in the Senate, on 14 November last, with the associations of the precarious, just in view of the imminent passage of the budget law in this branch of Parliament, in order to represent the phenomenon and give complete and exhaustive answers through our parliamentary activity. I thank Dr Giancola of La Sapienza University of Rome and Francesco Vitucci of the Saperi Department of Italian Left for conducting this research. So let's start with the numbers: there are 13,350 research scholars in Italian universities right now. I remember that the research grant is a very weak contract, with very low work protection and without any certain professional outlet. To these are added 3,687 type "A" researchers, a contract form slightly better than research grants, but again without any outlet or prospect. Think: the sum is 17,037 precarious in full capacity at Italian universities in 2017, but it is a constantly increasing number. Faced with this army of precarious without any future, we have only 2,295 type "B" researchers, the so-called tenure track, those who actually have a chance, once obtained the national scientific qualification, to be placed in the roles of associate and ordinary professor. Just think, it's only 2.295. In the next two years, Madam President, 4.590 research grants will reach the ceiling of six years laid down in Law No 240 of 2010, which was also amended two years ago, in 2016, on the occasion of the thousandprorogations. The original duration was four years - think - but, having realized us all in Parliament - the amendment to the House was even of the majority, but it was shared by all - that the duration of four years was too short, because the system of recruiting the Gelmini law had already failed and it was not possible to put in place that mass of research grants, an army of nameless and faceless precarious people, it was decided to extend that duration to six years. Well today, after two years, we are in the same situation again. Once again these contracts are going to expire and there is no opportunity for those people. We had tabled an amendment, at my first signature, whose aim was not, once again, to extend the duration of a contractual form which - be careful - we ourselves believe must be abolished from the panorama of pre-role figures. It was an amendment built in such a way that only the cheques that expired six years - and only those - could be renewed temporarily until 2019, precisely to allow policy - at this point in the next parliamentary term - to intervene systematically with a solution for those people. Well, Vice-Minister Morando - think about it - objected that this amendment lacked a technical report because it was costly and, if it had been presented in an ordinary law, it would have been rejected under Article 81 of the Constitution. Perhaps we should explain to Deputy Minister Morando, who represents the Government, and therefore to the Government everything, that the research grants do not weigh on ordinary funds: there is no need for any coverage, because the research grants weigh on project funds that the researchers themselves go to find on a competitive basis. Think, the government doesn't even know what we're talking about. In the period 2010-2016 only 7.3 percent of the checkers currently had a place as a fixed-term researcher (RTD), both RTD-a and RTD-b, and therefore that not even tenure track or tenure track. Then think that of the 92.7 percent who had a check from 2010 until today there is no trace in the database of the MIUR, from which these data were processed. Those people were expelled from the research system after they dedicated their lives to this. Since the Gelmini reform, from 2010 to 2017, universities have employed only 2,295 people like RTD-b - as I have already said - compared to 14,492 pensions: 12,000 places evaporated in our universities. We can speak in full capacity, without fear of being denied, of a real attack on our universities; a dismantling of our universities, a impoverishment, an emptying, because this says the numbers taken from the database of the MIUR, and not ours. And this is not over, Madam President. On July 28, 2017, in an article in the newspaper "Il Sole 24 ORE", certainly not a left-wing newspaper, it is said that in the next three years 20 percent of ordinary professors will retire, 10 percent of all professors, both ordinary and associated: 5,000 places will evaporate again in the coming years and add to the 12,500 that we have already lost. It is a genuine emptying of our universities. 8,800 are precarious only in the public research agencies supervised by the MIUR and in total they reach about 10,000, counting all the other research entities. Then there is the chapter of the national scientific qualification, Madam President: 12,600 qualified as ordinary professor, 24,500 qualified as associate professor, for a total of 36,000. And think that among these, in seven years, since the birth of the national scientific qualification, there have been only 4,000 admissions in role, less than 10 percent. Even with the many criticisms of how national scientific certification has gone, in particular with regard to bibliometric indicators, these are people who are overqualified and selected, who have passed through a commission, to whom there is no outlet. Our amendment once again provided for a plan for the standardisation of qualified persons, but it has not been accepted at all. Think that 6 percent of those qualified as ordinary professors at the university are outside; many of them are even precarious. Twelve percent of the qualified associate professors are back on the outside. These are the search numbers. Let us now turn to the numbers referring to the things that have been approved. Let us turn to the Verducci amendment and to Rule 56 because, Madam President, there are already - I have seen them - the MIUR press releases that wave the number of 2,140 new researchers. Let's go check out these numbers. The Verducci amendment allocates 50 million to public research bodies, with the obligation of the same bodies to obtain another 50% more, and thus up to the hypothetical figure of 75 million. Well, how many researchers are 75 million? If we go to see the technical report of Article 56, in which 13.5 million were allocated to 300 researchers in public research bodies, by dividing the result is 45,000 euros per researcher. And, in fact, this is a fair cost, because the tables tell us that €47,000 is the cost of a third-level researcher in public research institutions. But if we divide the 75 million of Senator Verducci's amendment by 45,000, the result is 1,666, and not 2,175. Let's do the math. Not only that, but in those 75 million there are - there should be and I hope there are - also the technicians of the public research bodies; therefore the researchers will be even less. Then, when we make the press releases - Madam President, through you I address Mrs Minister - we write the numbers correctly, because we do not want to be mocked. The extraordinary recruitment plan provided for in the amendment I am talking about is totally insufficient to meet the needs of the mass of precarious persons, with the numbers I denounced in my speech. Of course, I welcome the fact that the amendment specifically mentions Article 20 of Legislative Decree No 75 of 2017 of Minister Madia, because it is finally necessary to link the resources to the article of the so-called Madia Decree, which we approved here in Parliament. And I also very much appreciate the fact - and I thank Senator Verducci for that - that we have finally found funds that are really additional. But, Madam President, my thanks stop here. For the rest it is once again a completely insufficient buffer measure to give the right answers to people - we are talking about people, and I stress this once again - who have dedicated their lives to the country, to undertake a career, in universities and in research, in the face of the continuing uncertainty that they are living and suffering on their skin. We have seen the mobilizations that have followed these days and the occupation of the CNR in Palermo, Pisa and Rome. Let us now come to the question of university shots, in complete continuity; the classic patch, once again. Be careful: we are talking about university professors with a publicist regime, whose employment relationship is therefore governed entirely by ope-laws. We are therefore obliged, as a Parliament, to intervene precisely with provisions which concern them. I'm gonna finish my speech with the pay shots. They have suffered more than any other category the provisions, the jaws dropped in 2010 to make cash on the public employment; the shots have not been recovered and once again Article 55, in a completely insufficient way, previews the return to biennials from 2020. This is totally inadequate, so much so that there is once again an amendment by both the majority and the oppositions. Well, what is the solution we are discussing? A one-off in 2018 alone, however, by doing the calculations, equal to about a third of what they lost with the enduring blockage of their salary shots. It is a valid block - I remember - also to the legal effects, and not only economic: it is as if they had not worked for five years, to all legal effects. This amendment has been withdrawn, because it is said that there should be more resources in the House in this respect. I hope that, in addition to more resources, there will also be a radical change in the way compensation is done, because it must be structural and the return to bienniality back to the year 2014, and not one-off. I conclude by denouncing once again the total failure of the successive governments in this legislature, that of Renzi first and Gentiloni Silveri then, to give any response in strategic and structural terms to the field of university and research. I think this will be a price that you will pay in the next election, because you cannot mortify for so many consecutive years such a strategic sector for the country. [[Applause from the Mixed-SI-SEL and Art.1-MDP Groups]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-11-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-911.ana.u88	She is registered to speak Senator Montevecchi. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-11-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-911.ana.u89	Madam President, I will speak only for the parts within the competence of the permanent Commission to which I belong, because I imagine that my colleagues in the Budget Committee will make very busy speeches on the process of examining the budget law in our examination. I start from the field of culture by using a metaphor - in my opinion - which is quite pregnant: this budget law, as far as culture is concerned, has seemed to me more like a film about Indians attacking diligence than that of a minister who has an organic vision of what should be the financing of culture and the measures that still have to be taken in the field of cultural goods and activities. In the dream book, which my colleague Cioffi showed earlier during his speech, everyone put a little bit and a little bit of his, giving someone or something some money. The system of not having an organic view of the funding of the institutions and cultural institutions in our country and of continuing to feed a system that ensures that such an institute of culture or such an institution must be entrusted to the generosity of the parliamentarians, does nothing but fuel that vicious circle, so those entities are not "free" but continue to be dependent perhaps on the goodness and generosity of the parliamentarians who take their cause to heart. I want to be good and I don't want to talk about prebende or marcette. Today I am tired, but also happy to have finished this marathon and, therefore, I want to be a little good, because there still has to be the passage of the provision to the Chamber of Deputies. So, you have plenty of time to prove me wrong. In the book, however, there is everything, starting from the financing for the renovation of churches following alluvial events. For God's sake, an alluvial event is important and can also lead to the degradation of a structure. I wonder, however, why we did not remember the abbey of Scandicci. I recall that, three years ago, in the Committee on Public Education, Cultural Heritage of the Senate, we unanimously voted a resolution which committed the Government to finding the funds to buy the part still in the hands of private individuals, which is degrading and affecting the part of the property of the Curia, which supports the goodwill of Fr Carlo, a wonderful priest who is standing a jewel of our medieval heritage. We find money for the church in Aulla, while the government forgets to find a million euros to keep up with commitments made. And to say that the President of the Republic has also passed from there. We also have the Library of Archaeology and Art History in Rome, whose management will be entrusted to a private foundation. Our Minister for Cultural Heritage and Activities and Tourism thinks he lives in the United States and can import into Italy the US model of private foundations, knowing very well that in our country we do not have private capital to do this and that, as it is set, this system opens the way to cultural institutions dependent on political will. These foundations, in fact, receive public funding and cannot be based on private funding and, therefore - play force - become dependent on the goodness of the politician in turn, with everything that follows from it in such a system. The measure under consideration also provides for the fund for the promotion of books and reading. Great. However, let us get the money from the library fund to finance the archives of political movements. It's a refrain, a leitmotiv. We have seen this amendment passed since the beginning of the parliamentary term. The first promoter was perhaps the Minister Finocchiaro, while the last one who managed to put the cat in the bag was Senator Spousetti. Let us now remove the money from the library fund, forgetting what conditions our suburbs are in and how much libraries are needed to counter the phenomenon of videolottery rooms, with all the baggage of social degradation they carry. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] But let's move on. Then there is the theme of the live show. I overlook the issues related to carnival, because funding is already provided in the code of the show and you do not understand why Senator Marcucci wants to replace the government or the Minister by deciding to allocate 2 million euros. This initiative should be taken within the normal procedure for allocating funds, with the single entertainment fund. [[Applause from Senators Bottici and Centinario]] Evidently, it will be a premonitory sign. He will be the future Minister and he wanted to send us - alas - this message. Then we agree on the extension of VAT facilitated to the entire sector, but where did the famous funds that had been promised for the live show go? Applause goes to Senator Di Giorgi, who - poor woman - had tabled an amendment to allocate those funds. The amendment was, however, then transformed into a text two, three and four, and from the funds, from the money, to what did we arrive? We have arrived at the tax exemption from taxable income of the public financing fee. I mean, we climbed the mirrors. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]] Professions in cultural heritage: the ban for the 500 officials has finally unlocked, but the restorers are still standing at the start, and perhaps at the start of the Merano racetrack, the one to which we gave the money by doing Zeller a favor. On the other hand, there is nothing about recruitment for staff and we know how necessary it is to provide for new recruitment. You have rejected my amendment on digitisation and cataloguing, and in this respect a yellow one has opened up on the funds. The amendment was rejected by saying that the funds were already there, while MIBACT told me that they were not available and that they would be very pleased that my amendment had been adopted. Meanwhile, however, we give 600,000 euros in two years to the foundation "Don Luigi Sturzo" for the digitisation and dissemination of book archives. We do not worry about the general vision, but we give the money to the foundation, which is worthwhile, out of charity, because all the micro-sectoral amendments are worthy - and I use euphemism - but, I repeat, there is no overall vision, no organic rules are established and we perpetrate the prebende system. With regard to Pompeii, with an amendment I warn the Minister that he has forgotten, in the extension he proposes, to extend the staff within the structure of the general secretariat of the project. If you extend the project, but not the assignments to those who work in it, there is a problem in March 2018. In this case too, the Ministry of Cultural Heritage and Activities and Tourism had shown itself to be open to dealing with this issue, perhaps even to propose a solution and, on the other hand, the amendment was rejected because it was not mentioned in the sub-amendments, which had not been requested. If Franceschini and Morando will see it and maybe they will also talk about the famous money for cataloguing and digitization, that you do not understand whether or not there are. But you still have time. Mr Franceschini still has time to table an amendment to the House, better than mine - mine had to be improved - and to fill this gap. My colleagues will be very careful, because the Minister has been alerted and was very pleased. After the cultural heritage, let's go to school. On the alternation of school-work we have definitively decreed that it is not a moment of formation and of flanking, but it is a moment in which we go to work. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] The salaries of public school teachers are off the radar, as always, and continue to be the worst paid in Europe. We had made many proposals regarding the right to study, proposals which were not accepted. The Verducci amendment allocates resources for the right to study. We too had a proposal to allocate more resources, but we are pleased that at least the Verducci amendment was accepted, but it should have had a little more courage. We are pleased that, for the cover, Verducci used - like us - the fund for Natta Cathedrals, which were one of those things announced with slides: international professors arrive in Italy. Oh, yeah? But where? No one has joined the ban and now we can use those funds to cover anything else. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] I'll finish quickly. There is the extension of the cleaning and maintenance services in schools, always with the externalizations, that we know not to give a greater saving and to which are connected also judicial affairs regarding the assignment notices. So let's keep going. And you didn't want to accept our proposal. The teachers of the schools of childhood, forgotten by the good school, then illusory and sacrificed by a measure of 2016, today they are again forgotten and we hope that the memory will return to the House. The AFAM: very well the statiszation, for which we voted favorably, but the stabilization of the teachers, also that, remains missing and continues to navigate in a limbo of years and years. On the reordering of the section we remained firm to the slides and the beautiful name "Cantiere delle Arti" and we are still there to understand what it means, but it's okay. Turning to the last two comments, we regret that the Verducci amendment, which put a corrective to the salaries of teachers, has been withdrawn, it seems, due to cover problems and we hope that we can approve it in the House. In fact we will also watch over this, because we are in the Christmas climate and then we will watch like the ox and the donkey over all these things. We are also pleased that there has been this timid step forward in the stabilisation of researchers in public research bodies. We had to have a little more courage (we know that the goal was actually much more ambitious) because there is an entire sector that has been waiting for years for this step, on which our future is based. As I have already said, in fact, our future rests on research. We must decide whether we want to be a taillight country, destined to become a basin of supply of cheap labour, or whether we want to invest adequate resources in research and launch ourselves into the future among the countries that will drive international communities towards the future with innovative ideas and proposals, to try to overcome the complex challenges that this present imposes on all of us. [[Applause from the M5S Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-11-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-911.ana.u90	He's enlisted to speak Senator Lai. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-11-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-911.ana.u91	Madam President, I would like to add the text of my speech to the report. However, I would like to make a few comments because they seem necessary and necessary to me.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-11-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-911.ana.u92	The Presidency shall authorise it accordingly.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-11-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-911.ana.u93	LAI (PD). I have been following this part of the debate in particular and I consider some criticisms to be ingenious, which are obviously part of the work that the opposition must do. In my opinion it is necessary to give an overall look at the maneuver; a maneuver started with the DEF approach, passed through the fiscal link and now arrives at the draft budget law, which the majority develops between the Senate and the House. I think that the opinion should be comprehensive and that the opinion on the first part of the work done in this House should take into account the context in which we are in. This three-quarters maneuver chooses to cancel the VAT increases and to commit much of the last quarter to make visible and strategic operations, the first of which concerns the issue of social security. We choose not to mechanically apply the elevation of the retirement age, as provided for in the current legislation, and, together with the social forces and the union, reopening a dialogue with them, we choose to identify 13 categories for which this mechanism is not automatic. So let's make an important choice about fairness. Similarly, it is a fair choice, especially towards the future, to continue to support the issue of birth, although the measure is certainly not sufficient quantitatively and in terms of the quality of the services that need to be added. We are a country in a state of demographic shock. There are whole regions that now have a third more deaths than the natives and not even immigration is able to fill this figure. Of course, that is not the only solution, but, as we know - because this tells us the data - that, unfortunately, when children are raised, the risk of poverty increases, especially in the middle classes, economic intervention must also be preserved. I say more: this aspect should be strengthened in the coming years; it should be stimulated and guaranteed, also for the effort that this country has to look to the future. As it stands on the same strategic line, in my opinion, the whole of the initiatives, which are all aimed at trying to rebalance the situation of the weakest towards the strongest. Among all I mention the web tax, also an element of rebalancing of the competition; the theme of caregivers as a point of rebalancing between those who give and could not receive anything until now. Let us also think of the choices we made towards citizens in the tax decree; the stop to the bills every 28 days, to say one: that is also an attempt, a job that tends to rebalance the weak against the strong. This maneuver involves a series of important and strategic interventions that go in that direction; try to give back to those who have paid more the crisis something more than this year, last year, is beginning to emerge. We have not yet come out of the tunnel but, in the end, the work done begins to give results on which solid foundations can be built for an exit of this country from the crisis and a resumption of the role and task that our country has in Europe. [[Applause from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-11-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-911.ana.u94	The general debate is closed. I shall refer the following to another session of the draft law.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-11-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-911.ana.u95	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-11-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-911.ana.u96	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-11-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-911.ana.u97	DI GIACOMO (FL (Id-PL, PLI)). Madam President, the Molise Region, with notices published in the official bulletin of 31 December 2014 and 11 January 2016, regulated the procedures for accessing mobility benefits by way of derogation provided by the INPS. The Ministry of Labour, on 4 November 2016, issued circular No. 34, with which were allocated to the Region Molise 52 million euros for the payment of mobility by way of derogation for the three-year period 2014, 2015, 2016 to an audience of about 2,000 workers. In the meantime, the Molise Region, on December 23, 2016, has published new operating instructions on mobility by way of derogation, extending this audience to other workers and effectively removing the approximately 2,000 workers who could not apply for the year 2016. In practice, the Regional Council of Molise, with resolution n. 638 of 30 December 2016, has thought well to use the funds already intended to finance the active labour policies for the crisis area of Molise. I therefore ask the Government to pay the fees for the years 2015 and 2016 to the workers who had the right to do so, and to allocate the necessary resources to support the new workers' audience.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-11-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-911.ana.u98	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-11-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-911.ana.u99	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-11-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-911.ana.u100	EXPOSED Stefano (PD). Madam President, I would like to bring to the attention of the Government, in particular Minister Minniti, a situation which has arisen for weeks now in the municipalities of Bardonecchia and Oulx, in the high Val di Susa. There are now dozens of migrants coming to these two places to look for a way to France. The road possible to get away from Italy passes through two hills, the hill of Monginevro in particular, which is already full of snow and, unfortunately, in many cases, there is the attempt of these people, these desperate ones, to cross the Italy-France border passing in the railway tunnel of Frejus, very dangerous, realized in 1870, in this tunnel where they had to cross two trains and there was a person on foot, there would be no escape. This phenomenon is creating a very worrying situation also for the coexistence, as evidenced by the fact that yesterday RFI closed the waiting rooms of the two stations of Bardonecchia and Oulx that were occupied by these migrants at night. Of course there is the intervention of the Red Cross, there is an action by some NGOs to help these migrants, who very often try to cross paths full of snow without shoes, dreaming of a better future in France. However, I ask Minister Minniti to intervene, above all, to strengthen the presence of the Forces of the Order, because to dump on RFI the responsibility of the reception, which of course is not possible, can produce situations of tension. We are talking about really desperate people, who try to cross the border in very complicated conditions (the French gendarmerie, a few weeks ago, recovered on a path a 16 year old boy almost assiderato and brought him back to Italy) and are spreading uncontrolled rumors that these migrants would be sent from France to Italy, which is quite false, because there are migrants who are in Italy and who are going to those municipalities with the expectation of going to France. I therefore believe that it is necessary to support the availability that even RFI has given to find other heated premises, which are not the waiting rooms of the stations, where to host these people at night, but it is necessary that vigilance and security are at the head of the Forces of Order. The prefect of Turin has convened a committee for order and security on Monday, but it is clear that it is necessary to strengthen the presence of Police, Carabinieri and Finance Guard at a time when the ski season is about to start and there is a risk of a situation of tension completely inappropriate since we are faced with people who are in a really dramatic situation and very often to families with very young children.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-11-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-911.ana.u101	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-11-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-911.ana.u102	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-11-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-911.ana.u103	BAROZZINO (Misto-SI-SEL). Madam President, I am no longer able to take into account how many speeches I have made and how many questions I have put on the FCA FIAT subject by addressing the Government, the Ministers and the Commissions. In my speeches, I tried to get to know what really happens beyond the gates of those factories, when the selfies end up and the TVs go away: from the increasingly heavy working conditions, both physically and mentally, Madam President, also because of the massacred shifts (other than working up to seventy years on the assembly line), to the increasingly reduced spaces of democracy (so much so that the workers - I would like to remind you - are also denied the possibility of choosing from whom to be represented). Now I believe that there is a problem that should concern everyone (I know that when I talk about other issues everyone turns to the other side), which is the issue of employment. Despite the fact that practically everything has been granted by this Government to FCA (but not only to FCA), despite the awe you have towards them, I want to bring to the attention of this Assembly the fact that, starting from Melfi and passing through Pomigliano, Mirafiori, Cassino, Brugliasco, Cento, Pratola Serra, between Cassa Integrazione and the lack of confirmation of young workers, the situation is to say the least worrying. This silence, which continues to be non-innocent on the part of the Government on this issue, is really not dignified. I very much hope that someone will have dignity and address this issue, because we really talk about thousands of jobs and these people do not live in a separate state, but they live, until proven otherwise, still in Italy. I therefore believe that this issue, beyond the non-innocent silence, must be addressed. Of course, the answers may not please you, but I think workers have the right to know their future. [[Applause from the Misso-SI-SEL Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-11-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-911.ana.u104	The motions, questions and questions received by the Presidency will be published in Annex B to today's report.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-11-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-911.ana.u105	The Senate will meet again in public session tomorrow, Thursday 30 November, at 9.30 a.m., with the following agenda: (See agenda) The sitting was closed at 20.10 a.m.
