ParlaMint-IT_2017-02-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-759.ana.u1	The sitting was opened at 16:01. The Minutes shall be read. Mr Scoma, Secretary, read the Minutes of the afternoon sitting of the previous day. PRESIDENT. - The debate is Since there were no comments, the Minutes were approved.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-02-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-759.ana.u2	The list of senators on leave and absent on assignment received from the Senate, as well as further communications to the Assembly, will be published in Annex B to today's Minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-02-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-759.ana.u3	The next item is the question and questions. Question 3-02933 will be taken first on the possible closure of five military horse-riding centres. The representative of the Government may answer this question.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-02-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-759.ana.u4	Mr President, the Army, as part of a comprehensive review plan, is progressively adapting and renewing its structures according to sustainability and effectiveness criteria. In this context, a project has also been launched to rationalise the equestrian sector, in order to make the equestrian sector more adherent to the real training, training and operational needs and optimize its structures and the quadruped park available. On the merits, I await the need to rationalise the operation and maintenance of the sector but ensuring the preservation of the centuries-old traditions of the Chivalry Arm, some reorganization measures have been developed that will lead to the abolition of four military horse-riding centers (CIM). In particular, the measure will affect, in the first place, the CIM of the Cavalleggeri Guide regiment in Salerno, which has never been activated. Then, the CIM of the Nice Cavalry Regiment in Pinerolo will be interested. In this regard, considering that the latter has already been transferred from Pinerolo to Bellinzago Novarese on 1 July 2013, the CIM was closed only at the end of 2016 allowing the valorization of the Cavallerizza Caprilli and the Tancredi obstacle field of Savoiroux by the municipality. The CIM of Lancieri regiments of Novara stationed in Codroipo (Udine) and Piemonte Cavalleria in Villa Opicina (Trieste) was closed. This measure is aimed at rationalising the equestrian organization of Armed Force in the North-East of the national territory, concentrating it in the CIM of the Genoa Cavalleria regiment, allocated in Palmanova (Udine), with greater infrastructural potential and in a baricentric position compared to the two suppressions CIM located in Friuli-Venezia Giulia. The CIM of Cagliari, mentioned by the honourable Members, will not be suppressed and will remain under the autonomous military command of Sardinia. Finally, given the historical links between the local communities and the CIM, the measures to reorder, just as the questioner mentioned, are deepened within the municipalities.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-02-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-759.ana.u5	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-02-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-759.ana.u6	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-02-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-759.ana.u7	ANGIONES (PD). Mr Undersecretary, you mentioned just now how modern horseback riding is rooted in the tradition of Italian cavalry and how the Weapon of cavalry, in particular, has allowed the affirmation, in the course of a long history, of great champions also of international fame. I would like to recall, in this regard, the protocol between ANAC and Defence of 2015. I take note of the reasons for rationalization that probably oblige the Defense of our country to proceed to a revisiting of the current fourteen military horse-riding centers. Along with this I express my full satisfaction for the decision just expressed to keep alive the military horse-riding centre of Cagliari, thus allowing the continuation of a historical national and international horse-riding tradition. In conclusion, I believe it is necessary to emphasize the hope that the decision of the Army and the Defense allow the strengthening of the center of Cagliari, returning to its main functions that is to allow young people even civilians to be able to practice the horse at reduced costs, also with the aim of being able to join the military career, to use the center above all for the competitive activity and to strengthen the activity of hippotherapy, aimed especially at disabled civilians.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-02-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-759.ana.u8	Following are the question 2-00422 and the questions 3-03265 and 3-03469 on the suspension of the assistant head of the State Police Fabrizio Rossi. I call Senator Giovanardi to illustrate this questioning.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-02-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-759.ana.u9	First of all, I would like to point out that, having also Senator Gasparri, who is currently chairing the House, presented a question on this subject, in some way I also allow myself to interpret his thinking. This is a very curious fact; we are in fact faced with an esteemed leader of the State Police, among other things, a trade union delegate and therefore responsible for the protection of the safety of colleagues, who is involved in a Kafkian affair. I call her Kafkiana because she gets interviewed and shows truthfully some tools, such as helmets and machine guns, material that does not guarantee safety. And, on the basis of this, he finds himself involved, in a series of news deformed by the press or television - then I will come to merit - and unmistakably accused by the police leaders and suspended by the service on the basis of an activity carried out by the autonomous union of Police (SAP). On this matter the head of the SAP has made a hunger strike - which has become quite famous because it lasted months - to be heard by the then chief of the Police Pansa, to illustrate the facts and to prove that absolutely no crime had been committed, even if the criminal complaint then led to a referral to judgment of a criminal procedure that is still in progress. Meanwhile, the Digos - I have the documents here - disavowed the transmissions of different televisions in which it was said that this agent would pick up from the warehouse of his station in Rome disused helmets and equipment intended for disposal. In essence, it was said that this subject would lie by showing material that was no longer in use and making it believe it was. However, the Digos executive stated that in the information transmitted by Digos, specifically concerning such episodes, no reference is made to disused helmets and equipment intended for disposal. It is therefore a matter of news, on the basis of which precautionary measures have also been taken, absolutely not corresponding to the truth. On the contrary, other trade unionists belonging to other trade unions have had attitudes quite similar to this and no measures have been taken against them. We are in a country in which - fortunately I say - the authorities are very happy to receive those who denounce the police or the police, even before the facts have been established, but they struggle to receive the police and police when they ask to explain their reasons, and this does not seem very correct. This is even when, after trials that last for years, they are acquitted with full formula and come out of the tunnel of false accusations; there is never anyone who deserves to call them and congratulate them on being innocent results, which is a beautiful thing for everyone. Now, the problem is that the current head of the police has reinstated those who had been suspended, because of a notified measure, with which the agents who had been involved in this case are reinstated in service, because it has been established that the assumptions on the basis of which suspension measures had been taken against them have proved to be false: this is the case. We therefore asked the Government what it intends to do with the Secretary-General of the Autonomous Police Union (SAP), who made months and months of hunger strike to be received (but failed to do so). We would also like to understand how it is possible for cops to be accused of such serious facts to be suspended from the service, when it would have been enough to go and look at the Digos's record and report to find out that the charges that had been made against them were absolutely unfounded. I therefore ask the representative of the Government to explain what happened; I note that with the new management of the head of the Police has been corrected to this forcing and I ask what kind of relationship you intend to hold with all the unions - treating them all in the same way - and with the people who, within the Police, legitimately, carry out the trade union activity, among whose tasks there is also that of worrying about the safety of men and the tools that are used by the staff, to protect their and also the other safety. It is clear that if the instruments and the means are correct it is safer for the policeman the policeman who operates, but it is also safer for the citizen.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-02-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-759.ana.u10	The representative of the Government may reply in conjunction with the question and the question.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-02-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-759.ana.u11	Mr President, with the acts of inspection union on the agenda, which, as you have pointed out, I shall discuss jointly, as they are essentially related to the same subject, the matter is re-proposed, just summarized by Senator Giovanardi, dating back to November 2015, which led the administration of the interior to adopt a measure of precautionary suspension from the service and to initiate a disciplinary procedure against the assistant head of the State Police Fabrizio Rossi, in service at the Public Security Commissioner Bishop of Rome. The acts of union take the cue from a novelty intervened in the last month of October, that is the readmission in service of the aforementioned employee because of the annulment by the Lazio TAR of the provision of precautionary suspension. In relation to this, the Senators are asking a series of questions, to which I am going to answer on the basis of a rigorous, objective and complete reconstruction of the facts. The story originated from an interview aired during the broadcast of RAI 3 "Dancerò" on November 24, 2015, during which the assistant chief - in uniform, with camouflaged voice and obscured face - issued unauthorized statements on confidential topics, showing to journalists obsolete and deteriorated material supplied to the State Police and qualifying the equipment in use to the Police itself as inadequate and dangerous. Following this incident, the head of the Police - as the questioner has already mentioned - on proposal of the quaestor of Rome, adopted, on December 9, 2015, a measure of precautionary suspension from the service for serious disciplinary reasons, motivated by the seriousness of the conduct, considered moreover detrimental to the image and prestige of the administration of public security, also because of the wide media resonance of the contested facts. The precautionary measure was issued in relation to the initiation, in the following month of January 2016, of a disciplinary procedure aimed at the dismissal of the employee for the violations provided for in Article 7, numbers 1, 2 and 4 of the decree of the President of the Republic n. 737 of 1981. At a later moment - we are in April 2016 - for the same facts the attorney of the Republic to the court of Rome has formulated against the assistant chief the request for referral to trial for the crimes of ideological and material falsehood, diffusion of news to disturb the public order, flawed and abandonment of the place of service. The subsequent recruitment by the assistant chief of the accused obviously resulted in the necessary suspension of the disciplinary proceedings initiated against him, until the definition of criminal proceedings. As a result, it has ceased to explain its effects also the original measure of precautionary suspension from the service for serious disciplinary reasons. In this context - we are always in April 2016 - the head of the Police, in the mores of the definition of the criminal judgment against the employee, adopted, on proposal of the quaestor of Rome, a new decree of precautionary suspension from the service, motivated this time by serious criminal reasons, since there had been in the meantime the initiative of the prosecutor of the Republic. Against this measure the interested party has appealed to the Lazio TAR, with incidental request of suspensive. As reported in the various acts of inspection union, on 11 October last, the court referred to accepted the precautionary request, without however entering into the substance of the facts underlying the adoption of the contested measure that will be dealt with at the hearing on 6 June. On 19 October last, therefore, the head of the police ordered the release into service of the assistant chief, starting from the following 22 October, subject to defining the administrative position of the employee to the outcome of the pending judgment. With regard to the criminal developments of the case, I inform you that last 16 November the assistant chief was sent back to court by the judge for preliminary investigations for the crimes of ideological and material falsehood committed by a public official in public acts, interruption of a public service or of public utility and, finally, abandonment of the place of service, being exonerated, instead, by the offence of sin. The hearing will be held on March 22nd. In the light of what I have just said, it is clear that the conduct of the assistant chief is still subject to investigation both in criminal proceedings and in administrative courts. We have only one interim activity on the part of the TAR right now. It is necessary to wait for the definition of such procedures in order to make full and definitive light on the various aspects of the case and to allow the Administration of the inside to assume the determinations of competence in relation to the disciplinary aspects and to all the other consequent profiles.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-02-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-759.ana.u12	Not being able to carry out an intervention in reply, I trust, also in the interpretation of the common wills, in the interventions that follow.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-02-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-759.ana.u13	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-02-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-759.ana.u14	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-02-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-759.ana.u15	MAURO Mario (GAL (GS, PPI, M, Id, E-E, MPL, RI)). Mr President, honestly, apart from the declarations of rite, so that, almost normally, when a question is being asked from the opposition's benches, one tends not to be satisfied, I must express the deepest dissatisfaction, in the sense that this level of response tends to limit the purely judicial aspects of an issue which, on the other hand, has significant and dense political profiles. I'm trying to explain why. In the meantime there are illogical aspects; it would be enough to compare the level of the documents that have just been mentioned by Mr Giovanardi and the reply of the Undersecretary, in which I believe substantial issues have been bypassed. The first: is there the position of a police union, that is, this union has no right to be able to compare with the central levels of the administration, because everything is within the judicial case, and therefore coincides with the figure of the person called into question to respond, from the point of view of the administration, to what the Undersecretary has set out, or can the acts put in place by this police union be considered as acts made subject to a real discrimination with respect to the other actors of the dynamics between the Ministry of the Interior and their employees? Moreover, the question is relevant because either the Ministry of the Interior says that this is not a union but a subversive reality, that is, a reality that makes present, within the life of the Ministry of the Interior, something that tends to destroy the prerogatives of an entity aimed at protecting the security of citizens, or, once again, the perception of what is foreshadowed as a direction of march by the Ministry of the Interior remains illogical. At least here, in fact, it appears that the Ministry of the Interior is limited to considering what happened simply for those who are hypothesized - on the part of their own - profiles of justice. So, honestly, I remain very perplexed and, on the basis of this perplexity, I hope that not only the other questioners, but also others in Parliament, will take further steps to clarify more politically, both at the level of the inspection union and at the level of more specific information. We are neglecting and trying to reduce - as I have tried to explain - all this to a diatribe that is passed through the eye of the needle of a judicial case in order to empty it of the underlying problem: what is the Government doing, and precisely the Ministry of the Interior, to guarantee to its citizens acceptable levels of security and defence of those who represent the basic elements of that pact of freedom that binds together the formulation of the State itself? The State is a guarantor, it is not a master of people's lives, and if so, this is true when it addresses its citizens, but it is even more true when it addresses those who, in the exercise of the monopoly of force that belongs to the State, are obliged to prostrate themselves to see all the peculiar aspects of their work and occupation protected.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-02-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-759.ana.u16	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-02-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-759.ana.u17	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-02-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-759.ana.u18	GIOVANARDI (GAL (GS, PPI, M, Id, E-E, MPL, RI)). Mr President, in fact, there was no need to disturb the Government and the Senate Assembly for such an answer. Just read the acts that the Undersecretary has illustrated, of course by omitting the most important ones, where Digos totally disproves that slew of crimes of fascist flavor. Ever since I was at university, the dissemination of false and tendentious news to disturb it was already thirty years ago a desuitous fascist norm; today I see it cited. Again, the abandonment of public service, the abandonment of place (while talking with the journalist, the policeman would have abandoned the place of service). Now, that this government is an enemy of the Forces of Order is sure, it proves it in every step. I repeat: anyone who accuses the Forces of order has highways flattened to be received by all the institutions, who instead is policeman or policeman, even the president of the second Italian union in importance, must make months and months of hunger strike in order to be able to explain the reasons that totally exonerate him from the accusations for which he was denounced by his leaders. In fact, from what it turns out, it is true that the material he showed was obsolete but it is also true that it is still used. The accusation, however, was that he would show material that was out of service and was no longer used. That this accusation is false, has already been established, but what are we talking about? Yours would be a left-wing government, even if I didn't get it right. What about legality? And the principle of a free trade union that protects the well-being and safety of men and, through that, protects the well-being and safety of citizens? But in short, this affair, which has cost the suspension to a trade unionist - I repeat, ideological falsehood, but it has already been shown that it is false the denunciation made against him, false and tendentious news, abandonment of public service - does it not seem slightly persecutory? At this point we enter a field in which, with ease, we say: in the meantime we carry out a process because where is the problem? And meanwhile the people involved are suspended six months, one year, two or three, they do not take their wages, families no longer live, but there is no problem, between one, two or three years (sometimes eight years) will be acquitted. And all that they suffer in the meantime who pays him back? At least the administration of which they are part should show solidarity, closeness, that is to call the head of the union - as the new leader did and this must be said - and tell this person that he has been carrying out a hunger strike for months: do we want to put ourselves around a table? Do we want to see if the union charges are true or not? If you have any reasons to put forward in a comparison? If you do not have them, I will show you that you are wrong. These are the relationships between the subordinates and the leaders, who are well paid, among other things. You know, in fact, that we are talking about summit levels - which are also worth it - which receive between EUR 300,000 and EUR 500,000 a year against the 25,000-26,000 of the police. The latter, when such a thing happens, are under investigation, have to pay the lawyers and no longer receive the salary. This is the situation we are experiencing. So the bosses are the persecutors of the cops? Here we are not in the television series, set in Aosta, of the commissioner who was a thief, a scoundrel, who beat witnesses, who invented false things, who stole drugs and corrupted his driver and who was defended by all the critics for the great screenplay, because this policeman was almost to be admired, to be indicated as an example. No. Here is a trade unionist who denounces the material in use that is dangerous because desueto and everything we are talking about is based on this denunciation and the government has nothing to say. He's okay with it. And the answer given by the Undersecretary says what we already know, namely that there was a complaint, that there was then Digos (he didn't say it but I know it), and that finally the TAR gave him reason why the person concerned had to return to service. Then we'll see how the criminal proceedings end, but in two or three years. But what was the origin of the criminal proceedings, the denunciation of the leaders or not? Or did the D.A. make that up? So, what is the political judgment that the Government gives, in the face of this situation with regard to the freedom of trade union that exists in Italy and the protection of men who risk their lives for that little perceive as salary? Which side is the government on? You don't understand from that answer. Looks like the government is a Martian coming in and talking about things that concern me. I don't know what. I, on the other hand, think that men depend on the Ministry of Defence and the Ministry of the Interior, which should have at heart the idea of having a dialogue with their subordinates, but it seems to me, unfortunately, that this is not the case.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-02-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-759.ana.u19	I note that, at the request of the honourable Member, the answer to Senator Davico's question 3-00166 is postponed to another sitting. I also warn that Senator Verducci has informed the Presidency that he wants to transform Question 3-02971 concerning the judicial investigations of the nursing home Villa Anna of San Benedetto del Tronto, in the province of Ascoli Piceno, today on the agenda, into a written question which will take the number 4-06976.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-02-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-759.ana.u20	Questions 3-03240 and 3-03470 on initiatives to protect Italian citrus fruits follow. The representative of the Government may answer these questions together.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-02-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-759.ana.u21	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the crisis in the citrus fruit sector in Sicily has long been the focus of the Ministry of Agricultural Policy to define the strategies for targeted intervention. Just at the recent meeting of the citrus table, we have illustrated some operational proposals for a strategic plan unitary, in order to find solutions shared with the operators of the sector. In this context, in view of the complex situation, the need for a comprehensive set of measures to protect the incomes of agricultural producers, to support the production and restoration of production potential, to increase aggregation and to promote and develop coordinated actions with large-scale distribution has emerged. With regard to the management of the pathology known as citrus sadness, we have taken specific initiatives to narrow down the problem and identify the most suitable defense strategies. In particular, in the areas where there are virus strains that have proved to be more destructive for citrus fruits, we have foreseen a more incisive contrast, preserving citrus production in those areas where, although installed, the virus is present with unaggressive strains. In order to adequately address this serious plant health situation, with the Sicilian plant protection service we have requested and obtained a European financial contribution for the eradication of the severe forms of this harmful organism (for the period from September 2014 to September 2015), considered eligible for a total amount of EUR 1,781,000, of which 50% co-financed by the European Union. As regards the problems related to the introduction of new harmful organisms, in particular the one known as the black spot of citrus fruits, through imports from contaminated third countries, I note that in May 2016 the European Commission adopted specific phytosanitary measures for the import of citrus fruits from South Africa, Brazil and Uruguay. As regards inspection activities at the points of entry of the Union, I would point out that, in the Standing Committee on Plant Health in Brussels on 27 January, the proposal to amend the import requirements for various plants, including citrus fruit, was put to the technical vote. The proposals concern the modification of the requirements for the pathology of the black spot of citrus fruits and the cancer of citrus fruits, as well as the introduction of new requirements for the cydia of citrus fruits. Together with Spain, we have expressed an opinion that is contrary to the text, as the proposed measures do not represent adequate protection against the phyto-sanitary risks associated with the import of citrus fruits from third countries; in addition to the cold treatment (the only one considered effective), it has also been possible to carry out a treatment decided by the third country, only communicated to the European Commission, without technical evaluation by the Standing Committee on Plant Health. The text has therefore been approved by a qualified majority and the SPS notification (Agreement on sanitary and phytosanitary measures) within the WTO will now be followed for possible comments by third countries. Its official adoption will then have to wait for publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. With regard to PDO and PGI citrus fruits, including those of the Sicilian Region, our Central Inspectorate for the protection of quality and fraud prevention of agri-food products carries out checks at all stages of the chain on the product requirements provided for by the relevant regulations. In this context, in order to end the illegal use of Italian protected designations of origin and geographical indications on the territory of the Union, the ICQRF shall ensure the exchange of information on irregularities with the corresponding authorities entrusted by the other Member States. Finally, as regards the communication activities aimed at increasing the culture of Italian citrus fruits in consumers, in particular for PDO and PGI products, the Ministry gives recognized protection consortia and their associations contributions for the enhancement and preservation of products marked by European recognition.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-02-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-759.ana.u22	Some students from the University of Marche are following our work in the gallery, hit by the earthquake and going on in academic activity with great determination. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-02-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-759.ana.u23	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-02-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-759.ana.u24	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-02-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-759.ana.u25	COMPAGNONE (ALA-SCLP). Mr Vice-Minister, I understand that you have a perfect understanding of the problem and I thank you for that. My invitation is that more attention should always be paid to the problem highlighted that - as you yourself have already said - for us it is very delicate and important and concerns a considerable part of the economy of Southern Italy and, above all, of Sicily that - as you know - does not pay in very good condition. We need more attention in order to follow the current strategic plan and we must not lower our guard against the introduction of infections through imports into our markets, in order to avoid further damage to our economy.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-02-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-759.ana.u26	Following are questions 3-03460, 3-03467 and 3-03468 on the exclusion of some Italian cycling companies from the Giro d'Italia 2017. The representative of the Government may answer these questions together.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-02-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-759.ana.u27	Mr President, with parliamentary questions 3-03467, 3-03468 and 3-03460, the Minister for Sport, Mr Luca Lotti, has been brought to the attention of a question linked to the organisation of the Giro d'Italia. The same issue, moreover, has already been the subject of two urgent questions of 31 January 2017 by Mr Di Stefano and Mr Ginoble, to whom reply has already been given at the sitting of the Chamber of Deputies on 3 February. The three questions asked the Minister to report on the position he intends to take on the choice of RCS Sport, a company that organizes the Giro d'Italia, to exclude from wild cards the two Italian teams Nippo Vini Fantini and Andrioni Giocattoli, preferring the Polish team CCC Sprandi Polkowice and the Russian team Gazprom-Rusvelo. In particular, the Minister is asked to explain what initiatives he intends to take for the protection of Italian cycling, all the more considering that this year will be the hundredth edition of the Giro. In this regard, as already represented in the response to the questions presented in the other branch of the Parliament, the Minister points out that the Giro d'Italia is organized by RCS Sport, a private capital company, participated in full by RCS Media Group, an Italian publishing group, publisher of the sports newspaper "La Gazzetta dello Sport" that has always organised this competition. The Giro d'Italia - it is known - is part of the professional circuit of races UCI World Tour, organized by the Union Cycliste Internationale, to which is associated also the Italian Federcycling, and is governed by an international regulation, shared among all the national bike federations, in respect of which no institutional subject enjoys any powers of derogation. Well, this regulation - as is also said in the questions - provides that the 18 teams admitted by the ICU to World Tour, to which four wild cards are added, identified by the organizer, in its sole discretion (except for the winner of the Italian Cup, Bardiani CSF, who was invited). On this choice, therefore, they have no legally relevant and coercive power, neither Federcycling, nor CONI, nor even the Minister for Sport, who lacks powers of control over purely sporting matters, as is the question that is being asked. Nevertheless, the Minister for Sport is very interested in the state of health of the Italian cycling movement and shares the concerns expressed with the three questions: it is important, in fact, that the Gito d'Italia, one of the most famous events of the international cycling season, represents an opportunity for the relaunch of our national cycling. In conclusion, the Minister can only take on the commitment to promote the petition of Senators Caleo, Razzi and Castaldi at the company that organizes the Giro d'Italia, promoting dialogue between all the actors involved.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-02-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-759.ana.u28	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-02-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-759.ana.u29	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-02-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-759.ana.u30	CASTALDI (M5S). Mr President, I would like to thank the Secretary for his reply, but it was already clear to us that the Minister had to make a commitment. Instead, we expected a solution to the problem, because that is what this is all about. The political strength of which I am a member is the last to ask for derogations - we would miss it - but this is a situation that we can call exceptional. It is not, in fact, a Giro d'Italia any, but the 100th Giro d'Italia, the second most important stage race of the circuit that RCS Sport deals with. And above all, the Nippo Vini Fantini - I am also talking about the Androni - that I have had the opportunity to study and get to know better, is a team in whose modus operandi has prevalence of ethics. If you know how this team and its president carry on the sport, you will understand the passion that animates them. And then it is not fair that the wild card, which allows a discretionary choice, is used - in my view and in my small, being also a sport man - only for mere economic reasons. Cycling, in fact, is passion, is the sport where passion has excellence and the 100th Giro d'Italia can not do without Italian teams. Therefore, I expected at least a proposal from the Minister of Sports to run at RCS Sport. State intervention is there. I understand that the organization is private, but the intervention of the State is explained with the financing; the intervention of the State, the Regions and the Municipalities is in the mere passage of the Giro d'Italia and, therefore, in the occupation of the soils, in the use of the public force, in everything in which the public intervenes. It would therefore have been appropriate for the Minister of Sport to stand up for himself, as you still wish. I have a graph, of which I think you are aware, that all you do is ask for help: Italian cycling asks for help. Twelve Italian teams participated in the Giro d'Italia in 2000 and only two will participate in the Giro d'Italia in 2017; in the first division we went from eight Italian teams in 2000 to four and in the second division from seven to zero. And this denotes the crisis of this sport that needs help. It is a popular sport, and I talk to her about passion because I practiced sport and I know that passion counts in it. I repeat that this sport, which needs the help of the state, unifies the country, from North to South, as it has always been. I'm back on ethics, because this sport has paid heavily especially for the cases of doping, and to talk about the Abruzzo team - just like me - that asks for a hand precisely because it behaves well. I would like to read two lines of the letter that the president sole administrator Sciotti of Nippo Vini Fantini wrote days ago, that touch so many points - now I don't want to stretch - and affect above all the ethical and athletic values of the team, which are very high. And I remember that Cunego, a cyclist who has already won the Giro d'Italia, plays in it. But I want to focus mainly on ethics. This team even makes the data of the biological passport public, which means to be sure of how you behave and, at the same time, allows the opposing teams to know the athletic situation of its athletes at that time. Despite this, the data are still made public precisely because it is aimed at ethics. In the letter recalled the president of cycling society concludes by writing that he hopes to be remembered one day as the one who tried to change cycling for the better and asks you, politics, to intervene to be similarly remembered for something good. I hope the Minister will intervene because he has all the power to allow two Italian teams to participate in the 100th edition of the Giro d'Italia. [[Senator Razzi's applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-02-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-759.ana.u31	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-02-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-759.ana.u32	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-02-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-759.ana.u33	Razzi (FI-PdL XVII). Mr President, Mr Undersecretary, I had prepared my speech with the intention of addressing Mr Lotti, who I know is a sportsman and a fan of football. I would like to address you, Mr Undersecretary, first of all, to say that I did not expect a negative answer. It was considered unscrupulous to penalise even more - if possible - the people of Abruzzo, who are living among the rubble and snow meters, and all of Italy lover of cycling. The exclusion from the 2017 Giro d'Italia team Nippo Vini Fantini, directed by Valentino Sciotti, is unjustified and striking. This seems, however, to be the policy of RCS Sport, ie systematically exclude Italian teams from the Giro d'Italia. It is a lack of sensitivity towards a manifestation that brings serenity, but the whole largely repaid in economic terms and work by all the induced that revolves around national cycling. I remember, in fact, the contributions of the countries where the Tour passes, which are added to the state ones. I remember a stage entirely Abruzzo, which goes from Vasto to the famous Blockhaus - I remember the stages of Vito Taccone - located in the Maielletta: they are the countries affected by the Tour that pay for the passage. Italian cycling is experiencing an epochal crisis. Of the hundred editions of the Giro d'Italia, this is the one in which there is less Italy and it is expected that already in 2018 the Italian teams will be only two. This decision shows that it favours foreign teams over national teams. Moreover, I remember that of all the foreign teams participating only one pays taxes in Italy, not to mention, Mr Undersecretary, that one of the teams invited comes from a country where the entire sports system is under the scandal of doping, which turns out to be state. Mr Secretary-General, this is a positive move to protect national interests, both sport and employment. The Italian teams excluded have only Italian cyclists and pay all taxes and contributions in Italy for more than 40 employees each. I hope that all these aspects will not be forgotten, because being able to manage public affairs does not mean avoiding investment in sport.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-02-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-759.ana.u34	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-02-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-759.ana.u35	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-02-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-759.ana.u36	Mr Caleo (PD). Mr Undersecretary, I will not bother with matters of a regional and territorial nature and I will not talk about the tragic and dramatic issues that have occurred recently in Italy. Instead, I will try to enhance the Italian cycling movement and the many enthusiasts who follow this discipline. I take the words of the Undersecretary that the door is still open and, after what my colleagues have said in the previous speeches, of which I largely share the content, it seems to me appropriate that we do not close it definitively. This year is the centenary of the Giro d'Italia; it is a popular event, followed by millions of free people, on the streets, on the passes, in the plain, in the races by clock; it shows the beauty of the country. Senator Castaldi is right when he says that the state makes its best organization available. I have been the mayor and I know that, when the Giro d'Italia passes, one tries to embellish the streets, the places and to invest in the beauties of the country, because television arrives, there are police forces. It is a party, to which the Italians contribute both directly, participating and cheering, and with money (prefectures, police forces, municipalities, regions): each stage arrival costs hundreds of thousands of euros. I understand that RCS is a private company, but one cannot even ignore an overall assessment. It must also be borne in mind that the State makes available so many resources. I think there's still room for negotiation. I think that the Government, the CONI, the Cycling Federation, with which I have spoken, can put in place a strategy of persuasion towards the ICU and can establish derogations. I suggest one: instead of involving the teams with nine runners, you can have them participate with eight, opening the possibility of participation also to other teams. This makes it a service to Italian teams. Keep in mind that Nippo Vini Fantini has a general district also in my Province and is mainly formed by many young people (masseurs, physiotherapists, mechanics). Cycling - what little remains - sets millions and millions of euros in motion. I think the main objective, undersecretary Bressa, is not to kill the cycling movement. We talked about professional societies but, since I have been a fan of cycling for years, I assure you that also the youth teams, the juniors, the students, for a whole series of reasons, fail and decrease. Just in order not to lose this heritage, I think it is important, on the occasion of the centenary of the Giro d'Italia, to let all Italian teams participate; to ensure that cycling, after years of scandals, can return to the old splendors and make a contribution to sports practice and ethics and satisfaction to the many enthusiasts. I still expect a lot. It seems to me that his words also leaked the message not to let it go. It will seem a singular thing in the general marasma in Europe and in the world, with the many problems we have in Italy, but also sport - in my opinion - can participate in improving the life of the country and making it more cohesive; among other things, the Giro d'Italia passes in Sicily, Sardinia, throughout the national territory. Giving an answer in this direction also helps morals.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-02-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-759.ana.u37	The questioning and questions on the agenda are thus exhausted.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-02-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-759.ana.u38	The motions, questions and questions received by the Presidency will be published in Annex B to today's report.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-02-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-759.ana.u39	The Senate will meet again in two public sessions on Tuesday 14 February, the first at 11 a.m. and the second at 4.30 p.m., with the following agenda: (See agenda) The sitting was closed at 16.55 p.m.
