ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-780.ana.u1	The sitting was opened at 16 p.m. The Minutes shall be read. Mr Volpoli, Secretary, read the Minutes of the afternoon sitting of the previous day. PRESIDENT. - The debate is Since there were no comments, the Minutes were approved.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-780.ana.u2	The list of senators on leave and absent on assignment received from the Senate, as well as further communications to the Assembly, will be published in Annex B to today's Minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-780.ana.u3	I would warn you that qualified votes can be taken in the course of today's sitting by electronic means. Therefore, from this moment the period of 20 minutes from the notice provided for in Article 119, paragraph 1, of the Regulation (at 16,02 hours) begins.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-780.ana.u4	Ladies and gentlemen, let us begin today's sitting with a reminder of 8 March. I want to take advantage of this moment to wish all senators and all women all the best. [[Applause.]] I would like to express my wish for today's feast and closeness to the struggle. Today is a day not only of celebration, but also of struggle [[Applause]] and to raise public awareness, through the many demonstrations taking place and the many pink marches: the path taken is long and requires the support and collaboration of all, including men. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-780.ana.u5	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-780.ana.u6	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-780.ana.u7	D'Ambrosio Lettieri (CoR). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the 40th anniversary of the adoption of the resolution by the United Nations General Assembly established the celebration of International Women's Day has taken place today. And we also remember it in this House with a series of speeches, which must keep away from our reasoning the risk - in my opinion incumbent - of slipping into rhetoric and of emphasizing, with emphasis, a day, which in some ways should be a moment of reflection, and not only to look at a different horizon than what we are living today, as regards policies in support of women and their rights, but also to reason on what we leave behind and which unfortunately is present in our everyday lives. I am convinced more and more that the risk of falling into banality is strong, if I think of the women killed, raped, subjected, persecuted, abused and exploited of all ages, all too often on the part of those who should instead have represented a safe harbor, a cradle in which to raise affections and love. Every three and a half days on average, in Italy, a woman is killed in the family or, however, affective, while every day, always at the expense of women, there are 23 persecutory acts, 28 abuse, 16 episodes of beatings, 9 of sexual violence. I am abstaining from reporting data on violence against minors and women of younger age. Among the first enemies of girls and girls are their peers. The Ministry of Justice reminds us that 817 men's children are convicted of sexual assault; 267 are responsible for the exploitation of child pornography and prostitution. Do not escape the reasoning of this day that the European Court, just a few days ago, condemned Italy for not having acted sufficiently quickly to protect a woman and her son from the violence perpetrated by her husband, who led to the murder of the boy, and for having therefore omitted the necessary safeguards. Colleagues and colleagues, there is not only violence: there is death. The Act on stalking and the rules against feminicide certainly remain an important port, but still too small a sign of commitment and attention that deserves to be intensified and translated into even more concrete terms. If we think that only in 1981 - Mr President, I am addressing you in particular for the specific knowledge you have of this matter because of your previous magisterium - it has been said goodbye to the crime of honour and to the reparational marriage, we still have a long way to go. It will be said to me that cultural processes are slow and we must make them continue, because we know that very often women are left alone in the face of the complex processes of treating a disease - we have seen it a few days in this House - and in the face of motherhood that is not completed in that family environment that we would like. Basically today, on International Women's Day, we can say that a lot of progress has been made by thinking about that March 8, 1947, in which Article 3 of our Constitution was written in terms of equality. But we still have a lot of steps and a long way to go. We must feel responsible for this and in this where equality means not zeroing diversity, but respecting the full human realization of each one in his own uniqueness. For this reason, inviolable rights cannot be negotiable, nor can they be considered only a point of arrival. They must necessarily be seen as a starting point for achieving those equal opportunities that do not exist today. That is why I say to women with my group today: good luck. But let me say even more, with a strong voice: commitment and respect for the rights and dignity of women, who still deserve multiple recognitions. [[Applause from the PD Group and Senator Rizzotti.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-780.ana.u8	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-780.ana.u9	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-780.ana.u10	STEFANI (LN-Aut). Mr President, speaking on 8 March seems almost rhetorical, but I am thinking of the first feminist movements, the first women who, fighting against the morals of the time, tried to defend rights which at the time seemed to be a utopia such as the right to vote and to decide. And to think that the right to vote we have won as women for a few years, considering the history of our civilization and our right. Yet today, outside this House, a strike is taking place, which is not only Italian but of supranational interest, as if to say to pay attention, because today women are not celebrating with mimosa or rosette, but are considering what their condition is. It must be remembered that at the moment there is a major problem of unemployment, a huge precariousness in work, the problem of the integration of young people into the world of work, the problem of families and their maintenance, the problem of a huge democratic decline. We are talking about a huge crisis in society in which women today say they can't make it. It is a crisis of society that certainly does not depend on the condition of women; but where there is the crisis the condition of women emerges and we realize the ulterior vulnus of our society and a vulnus is precisely that of the figure of women. In this last parliamentary term we have talked about feminicide several times. Some have also criticized the fact that we are talking about feminicide and that killing a woman cannot be a more serious crime than killing a man. But we are talking about feminicide as violence against women and, unfortunately, violence against women. There are violence against women, children and all those who are weak in our society. Understanding why there is violence against women is a very difficult passage. We live in a world where we talk about computer science, telematics and where we can even think about virtual realities: yet, there are huge cultural shortcomings, especially with regard to the female figure. There are those who believe that the cause is the crisis of human identity or the economic crisis. Yet, women are touched, who often suffer, and violence is not always and only the beatings: great violence is also the psychological pressures or the form of subjection that exists within some contexts, especially family. And every time the woman rises, at that moment she seems to raise the anger and anger of the man who stands next to her and who should love her, but who can even kill her. We must invest more in culture, so that equality between men and women covers all rights and also wages, because there is a major problem of the pay gap between men and women. Women have now had the opportunity to enter certain areas of work: there are many women in the judiciary and in the bar. Yet, when it comes to self-employment and self-employment, we find pay differences, which we absolutely have to deal with. In conclusion, we must remember that educating a child means creating a man, but educating a child means creating a people. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group and the Senators Albertini, Rossi Luciano and Rizzotti.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-780.ana.u11	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-780.ana.u12	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-780.ana.u13	WAR (Art. 1-MDP). Mr President, as you mentioned, this year on 8 March is not a celebratory day and not even just a mimose party. This year, March 8th is a day of awareness and struggle. Women around the world have organized themselves with spontaneous mobilizations and organizations. There are now 49 countries involved: we have started from Argentina, to reach the United States, India, Latin America, Poland and of course Italy. We started from Argentina with the slogan "If our lives are not worth it," then we stop. The expression "If our lives are not worth it" means that there is indifference and little ability to intervene against the male violence of women. The expression "then we stop" instead indicates that millions of women have today launched what is called a global strike. Only women can make this kind of strike, which concerns both the recognized and paid productive market work and the unpaid care work, concerning the care of people (I think of the disabled and the sick, but especially the children and the elderly) and the domestic care. In fact, if no one washes, irons, eats and thinks of the house, the productive world collapses. Reproductive activity is a social activity that preserves and nourishes the workforce and maintains the normal conditions of sustainability of the life and work processes of women and men. If women stop, either way, on these two fronts, society stops. It is precisely on the lack of social recognition of care work that much of the discrimination against women rests. Let me give you a few examples. The lack of recognition of social work prevents a crucial issue from being addressed, namely the fact that care work is badly distributed between men and women and is almost exclusively dependent on them. From this point of view, Italy has a record: among the OECD member countries is the one with the highest differential in working time between women and men. According to the OECD, in Italy women work three hundred and twenty-seven minutes more a day than men. In Italy, every woman devotes thirty - six hours a week to housework and care, while men barely reach fourteen hours, with a difference of twenty - two hours. As I said, this is the largest gap in the OECD member countries, since the average is eleven hours and there are countries, such as Denmark, which are less than three hours apart. Let me give you another example. If you do not consider the social importance of care work, then you do not care to allow hours and work organizations, nor support services such as kindergartens and activities outside school hours for children who make care work compatible with public life. Then one wonders at the collapse of the birth rate and the constant increase in the age at which women decide to have their first child. We know, however, that in Italy women very often interrupt work when they have children and more than half of them do so unintentionally, because you have to do so. We know how many young women are not even hired because they might become pregnant. The protest of women and their great ability to march together, overcoming differences, are marking the world and imposing cultural changes, as well as legislative and social changes. Let me give you a few examples. I think of the movement Women Wage Peace, born in Israel in 2014, which in October 2016 saw thousands of Jewish, Muslim and Christian women and mothers (so Arab and Israeli together) participate in a long march of 200 kilometers, lasting fourteen days, from the North of Israel to Jerusalem, to solicit a solution of the Israeli-Palestinian conflict. Peace is not a utopia, but the necessary basis for the life of two peoples in security and freedom. I am thinking of the women's march on Washington, which on 21 January 2017 mobilized millions of women for women's rights (understood as human rights), opposing Trump's policies, and also calling for alarm on other issues such as racial discrimination and workers' problems. I am referring to the Black Monday of Poland, which on 4 October 2016 saw thousands of women, all dressed in black, strike in 60 cities to demonstrate the will to defend their reproductive health and their reproductive choices against very restrictive government decisions, such as abortion. I am also thinking of the Non di Meno movement, which includes hundreds of associations (from the Union of Women in Italy, UDI, historical and non-historical feminists, anti-violence centers, young single women, students and workers), and the great demonstration that it promoted on 26 November last in Rome, at which 200,000 women have protested against male violence against women. And then they were in Bologna on February 4 and 5 to discuss an independent plan against violence and today animate demonstrations, flash mobs, meetings and parties of all kinds in many Italian cities. This is a beautiful March 8th. [[Applause from the groups Art.1-MDP, PD and Misto-SI-SEL.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-780.ana.u14	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-780.ana.u15	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-780.ana.u16	DE PIN (GAL (GS, PPI, M, Id, E-E, MPL, RI)). Mr President, first of all I would like to congratulate all women on their best wishes. Reading an article yesterday, I was very impressed with a slogan related to today's day: ♪ Between the feast, the rite and the silence, we choose the fight! ♪ And it is true, because we women are always put to the test, always in struggle to assert our rights, to take what is ours, in a world in which they seem to have been built as an object of male desire, and not as an autonomous identity, in a society that has always been marked by a female role of subordination. We fight as companions, friends, mothers, sisters and daughters. And we struggle to try to affirm the fact that society must be a set of completely free individuals of equal dignity and rights. That it is important to give weight to today's day appears clear by opening the news pages of any newspaper today. Women are increasingly being killed, abused, beaten. And the basic idea, very often, is that they themselves provoked themselves to expose themselves to abuse. I have seen women trying to hide their pregnancy as much as possible so as not to be fired; women who have no support, neither economic nor social, during maternity. So more and more young Italian women choose non-fertility. Our struggle is directed so that motherhood can be a right and not a luxury for a few. But current labour policies, which are very often of European origin, impose a model of economic competition in which money and the interests of large financial centres are more valuable than life. It is neither the pink quotas nor a simple institutional charge that solves a problem of much deeper social and cultural roots. We have a backward welfare in ensuring protection and support for workers, who are still less than 50% in Italy today. Women, on average, are paid a quarter less than men. Just as we can no longer turn our backs on the practice of the uterus in rent, which reduces human life to a commercial practice and exposes women to exploitation, taking advantage of situations of physical and economic discomfort. You can't rent a uterus as if it were an apartment overlooking the sea. This places the emphasis on the fact that at the basis of gender differences there will always be that of class, because a woman who dies of heartbreak while working in the middle of the fields will certainly not have the same problems and opportunities as a woman who grew up in a comfortable family. I certainly do not believe that being equal means being equal: it is undeniable that we women have different needs and we may need different solutions. But there is a certain fact and it is based on the fact that very few women are at the top of the companies, a very small number on the boards, making sure, very often, that, in order to be accepted, women end up imitating male behaviors. I conclude by recalling that Italy is the country in which the violence of comrades, husbands or former boyfriends is the first cause of death for women aged fifteen to forty-four years. Finally, I would like to add that I have just taken part in the beautiful initiative which was dedicated to one of my fellow citizens, Tina Anselmi, to whom I recall my sincere tribute of honor. [[Applause from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-780.ana.u17	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-780.ana.u18	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-780.ana.u19	Longo Eva (ALA-SCLP). Mr President, gender equality began in Italy in 1946 when women were given the opportunity to vote for the first time. It was June 2, 1946 and was voted for the election of the constituent Assembly and for the institutional referendum that created the Republic. Many things have happened since that 2 June to today: 8 March 2017, International Women's Day, regarding her condition. The achievements of these seventy years have been many, although Italy is still far from fully implementing the principle of equality enshrined in Article 3 of the Constitution. What is really needed is a cultural battle that, starting from the protection of women, also reaches the protection of those children who are deprived of their mother and, more generally, the protection of the family institution. However, if many achievements have been achieved in Italy, it is often not so in the rest of the world, where the fundamental rights of women are often not yet respected at all. Think of the theme of early or childish marriages of girls, the condition of women in many Islamic countries, the practice of infibulation, the exploitation of prostitution. There is so much still to be done in the world to ensure that women have the inviolable rights that our Constitution recognizes in Article 2. And International Women's Day also serves this purpose: to reaffirm strongly that it is unacceptable that, in 2017, so many women still do not have those inviolable human rights. As far as the situation of women in Italy is concerned, however, it is my opinion that it should be considered a defeat in 2017, that there is a need to regulate certain aspects of public life still with the aim of avoiding discrimination against women, with the introduction - for example - of pink quotas, since gender equality should be established as a fact in an advanced democracy like ours. It is therefore a cultural problem. It must, yes, be removed from all forms of discrimination based on sex, but this must only be a precondition and cannot in any way be the ultimate aim of the action of the public authorities. On the contrary, capacity and merit must become the cornerstones of an efficient and truly respectful system for women too. The idea of creating pink quotas or gender quotas must therefore be combated only because we see the weak sex in women. Exclusively, meritocracy must be the criterion on which to assign an elective job or office. This does not mean that in certain situations positive actions have played an important and useful role in eliminating forms of discrimination against women. But this is an approach that we must have the strength and courage to overcome in order to achieve a selection criterion based on merits and abilities, in order to achieve a cultural climate that, without the need for laws and rules, avoids discrimination on the basis of sex, as provided for in Article 3 of the Constitutional Charter since 1948. That is the real objective that we must set ourselves. In fact, positive actions, and so also those in support of women, are temporary measures. The fact that there has been, and in some cases still exists, the need for pink quotas tells more than anything else about the civilization of our country about gender equality, and not the opposite. If it is necessary to set up pink quotas, it is because there are forces that go against meritocracy and discriminate against women, and these are the forces that must be fought. The role of women in politics is also an essential condition for effective gender equality. Skills, potentialities and meritocracy are the cornerstones of an efficient system: of good, capable and deserving women - ladies and gentlemen - there are indeed many, and the majority of them have joined the representative assemblies and all other sectors of the social and productive life of the country long before the entry into force of regulatory measures aimed at safeguarding gender equality. This is and must be a source of pride for all of us and for the whole country, with the hope that the cultural battle against gender discrimination and in favour of merit will increasingly succeed in imposing itself in the consciences of all Italians. [[Applause from the ALA-SCCLP Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-780.ana.u20	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-780.ana.u21	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-780.ana.u22	ROMANO (Aut (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT)-PSI-MAIE). Mr President, today, 8 March, International Women's Day, I would like to avoid any language and semantics that could cause the memory of what has meant in history to be the figure of the woman and of what she will represent to fall into tantalizing rhetoric and repetitiveness. I therefore believe that today, on 8 March, International Women's Day, a commitment that is not only symbolic is renewed. Seventy years ago, precisely in March, the Constitutional Assembly approved the text of Article 3 of the Constitution, which introduced the substantial principle of equality whereby citizens, without distinction of sex, race, language, social condition, religion and political opinions, have equal social dignity and are equal before the law. It is also a fundamental article for women and not only Italians. The achievements of these years have certainly been many and it is undeniable that the female condition in our country is constantly and progressively improved. The legislative steps that have characterized these years in the long march of women towards equality have been significant in terms essentially of job guarantees such as the protection of working mothers, such as opportunities for access to the world of work, legal protection and equal access to the political and economic life of the country. However, the statistics are alarming and also recall a pre-political activity carried out where we are confronted with violated bodies, with denied lives, where, in the constitutional dimension and not only biological but ontological of being a woman, there is the dimension of life that is infuture. However - as I said before - statistics are very discouraging. I will just mention some damage: there are 652,000 women who have been raped and 746,000 victims of attempted rape. It is a violence that develops in particular in the domestic context and within emotional relationships. We remember that in the last ten years, of the 1,740 women murdered in Italy, 1,251 (71,9 percent) were killed in the family, 846 of these (66,6 percent) within the couple, 224 (26.5 percent) at the hands of a former partner. They are shocking and unacceptable data in a society such as ours which, precisely defined as Western and democratic, should recognize the fundamental rights of every human being, beyond its belonging to any sex. Perhaps there are some comforting facts today. A Unioncamere figure of the last few hours speaks of an increase compared to 2015 of about 10,000 women driving businesses; private sector executives are over 20% compared to the last five years. These figures can be comforting, but they do not fully satisfy us because, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the whole issue is essentially an inequality in sex, which brings the female body from a perspective of possession by others, in a dimension of physicality where he must prevail over her. One question that we obviously have to ask ourselves is what we have done in recent years, in this parliamentary term. Many laws have contributed to changing the role of women in the family and society, overcoming those historical regiments that relegated the other half of heaven into a subordinate position with respect to man. During the current legislature, significant legislative measures have been adopted: ratification of the Istanbul Convention; the anti-feminicide decree; the three-year plan for the implementation of the principles of equal opportunities in the formative dimension; the introduction of three-month pay leave for persons who are victims of gender-based violence; the establishment of a parliamentary committee of inquiry; other draft laws will have to be analysed and studied as soon as possible with regard to the phenomenon of brides girls. I would like to end this speech by rejecting the rhetoric of expressions - as I did in the introduction - which can lead to fatigue in dealing with the subject itself, which is very topical. At this point I would like to pay tribute to all women, to colleagues, recalling a sort of fairy tale by Paul Claudel, who recalled a difference between two dimensions: the male dimension, which he called Animus, and the female dimension, which he called Soul. It says Claudel: in the house of Animus and Soul, the spirit and soul, things did not go very well. The times are now far away when Soul was free to tell what she liked and Animus was listening to her all enchanted. After all, it is Soul who brought with him a rich dowry. But Animus did not accept this subordinate position for a long time and soon showed his true nature, vanity, pedantry and even violence. Soul no longer has the right to say a single word. Animus is not faithful, but this does not prevent him from becoming jealous because he knows very well that, ultimately, all the heritage is of Soul, while he is poor in reed and lives only of what it gives him. His work of exploitation knows no limits: he mistreated her, tormented her, made her cry; after all, Animus is a bourgeoisie. But here comes something unusual one day: he comes home unexpectedly, when suddenly he hears that Soul, locked in a room, sings a strange song, something completely unknown of which one cannot recognize the notes, the words, the tone of a song as strange as it is wonderful. From that day on, Animus uses all his cunning to induce Soul to sing for him once again, but she pretends not to understand him. As soon as he looks at her, she shuts up. The soul is silent as soon as the spirit begins to look. And so Animus remained alone. [[Applause from the Aut Groups (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT) - PSI-MAIE and PD, and Senator Anitori. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-780.ana.u23	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-780.ana.u24	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-780.ana.u25	BONFRISCO (Mixed). Mr President, I would like to thank you for giving me very little time to give Parliament a thought, which is not even mine. It is a quote that fits well, and that I have adapted to this day so important to us. None of us have come where she is just for hoisting herself: we are here because someone has bowed down and helped us. And then the thought goes not only to the women of today and to their sufferings, to everything that they have not yet conquered and that - we hope - will soon conquer; none of this will ever happen if we, at least on this day, do not remember what our mothers have been, not only the mothers of women: the mothers of this Republic, the first women who entered these classrooms representing Italians and especially Italians. The Italians began their journey - and we are still only halfway there - to the conquest of true equal opportunities. And now allow me to remember some of these 21 women: Maria Federici, Nilde Iotti, the young Teresa Mattei and Lina Merlin (unforgettable), mothers of this Republic and mothers of all of us. [[Applause from the FI-PdL XVII, PD and Mixed-SI-SEL Groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-780.ana.u26	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-780.ana.u27	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-780.ana.u28	ANITORI (AP (Ncd-CpE)). Mr President, the condition of women in society has passed through considerable changes over the centuries, depending on the political and legal evolution of peoples, the diversity of geographical and historical factors and its membership of the various social groups. In almost all times and countries, women have been subjected to less favourable treatment in societies of the past than men. For a long time, women have been lower than men in legal, economic and civil terms and have for so long been excluded from a series of rights and activities. The role of the woman was that of a mother within the family and her main task was to do household chores. The woman had no legal and economic autonomy, she could not administer her property without the consent of her father or husband, she could not hold public office. Today women are present in society, in the business world, in universities, in the judiciary, in the public administration, in the Government and in Parliament, sometimes carrying out even very demanding jobs, of some importance within society, or works that until some time ago were of exclusive relevance to men. Today women, in Western society, can make important choices within the family and can choose the most suitable education to pass on to their children. Unfortunately, however, the living conditions and the role of women have not undergone significant changes all over the world; in fact, women in some parts of the world have always played a marginal role in society and in households. By limiting our gaze to Italy, in the last fifty years, thanks to the countless battles for the affirmation of their rights, the female condition has profoundly changed. In the last century, social battles have ensured, albeit slowly, the implementation and implementation of the dictation of Article 3 of our Constitution, which can well be defined as the fulcrum, the heart of the fundamental Charter. A very important article for Italian women, who had obtained the right to vote for only a year and were still struggling with a deeply patriarchal country: thanks to that article, in fact, the equality of genders entered fairly among the founding principles of the newly born Republic. The path of substantial equality cannot be considered concluded, also because the country would not place itself, at this point, in the 50th place of the general ranking of the annual report of the World Economic Forum (WEF) on the situation in 2016 of the gender gap in the world, with a decrease of nine positions compared to last year. Particularly alarming are the position at 117th place in the partial ranking of economic participation and opportunities and the 56th place in equality in the field of education. All this confirms that, despite the undoubted progress made, Italy is still far from the full realization of the principle of equality enshrined in Article 3 of our Constitution. The conquests in the Republican period were however many and it is undeniable that the feminine condition in our country, since that March 1947, has been constantly and progressively improved. But there is still so much to be done: in terms of job guarantees, both as protection for working mothers and as opportunities for access to the world of work; in terms of the social and legal protection of women; and finally in relation to equal opportunities for access to the political and economic life of the country. Above all, through our role as parliamentarians, we should ensure more protection of the physical and psychological safety of women against all forms of aggression or violence perpetrated against them, both within and outside the home. Since 2001, numerous legislative interventions have introduced a number of protective measures, both criminal and civil, and the crime of persecuting acts (the so-called stalking). But legislation is not enough. We must act to ensure the eradication of a profound culture that sees women as an object of possession to be disposed of at will. Awareness-raising actions, especially of younger generations, will be crucial to the effectiveness of a long process of change. A new goal to be achieved is the right balance in reconciling life and work. Women play an increasingly active and equal role in terms of working and economic and financial autonomy. (16.45) (Follows ANITORI). Inevitable, therefore, also a change in the perception of the parental relationship: the need to reconcile work with the responsibilities deriving from the education and care of children no longer constitutes an exclusive female issue, but a duty-right to guarantee also to fathers, even if the gap between men and women in unpaid work in Italy is higher according to OECD data, as already mentioned by Senator Guerra. In the field of work, the inclusion of pink shares in the administrative bodies of companies was certainly a positive step to balance or begin to weigh the representation of the female component in the decisions of companies. Also in the field of work, the sad habit of companies, aimed at discriminating especially the workers, was that of the so-called resignation in white. In order to be valid, resignations must now be written in telematic mode and only on appropriate forms, made available by the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy. The era of blank and dateless leaves is over, a step forward, but there is still much to guarantee women in the world of work, especially to allow them a serene right to parenthood. In the future it will only be possible to benefit from a woman's vision of the world. It is our task to realize the original message of March 8 in everyday lives, not to confine ourselves to a celebratory discourse, once every year, but to live every day in the awareness of its own value and not to make even half denigration of various kinds, or claim or misogynistic affirmation. These are the deep little revolutionary acts of everyday life. [[Applause from the AP Group (Ncd-CpE).]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-780.ana.u29	I greet the class of the Liceo scientifico "Giulietta Banzi Bazoli" of Lecce that has come to visit us. Welcome, guys. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-780.ana.u30	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-780.ana.u31	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-780.ana.u32	PETRAGLIA (Misto-SI-SEL). Madam President, I would like to take this opportunity to congratulate you on your new position. President Grasso said, by introducing our work, that today would be the day of the memory of 8 March. I would like to say that for us it is a day of celebration and reflection, full of the meanings that each of us will want to give. For us, on 8 March, it means speaking and affirming freedom, self-determination, democracy, equality, respect and equality. Today, in many squares of Italy, garrisons and demonstrations are taking place, and many women and many men have even shocked, that is, they have given up a working day and therefore money in paychecks. I would like to point out this point because in these days - and especially today - I have heard too much controversy about the reasons for the strike: polemics and ironies that I have unfortunately heard from many women too. Yet, the reasons for the strike are well known; for once we are talking not only about contractual claims, but about claims of rights and equality for all and for all. Someone asked this morning what it's for. It serves to denounce, it serves to make everyone and everyone aware, it serves to make commitments to governments and politics, a contribution to make politics useful. For this reason, I propose that you make a pact between all of us (but above all among all of us), a transversal alliance between women and men in the name of women. We make a pact and we quickly vote on a caregiver law that supports those who take care of the family, a commitment that weighs mainly on women. Women still leave work today to care for husbands and children with disabilities, without professional achievement, without economic autonomy, without contributions and, then, without pension. In other countries, however, domestic care work to replace the role of public intervention is recognized. The families of four million disabled people, mainly followed by women, mothers, daughters, grandmothers, have on their shoulders the weight not only emotional, but also economical of the problem. We make a pact and we establish by law that wage parity is implemented, upwards, of course (I would not want, given the lowering of wages, a downward adjustment for men as well). Today in Florence the women of the RSA Villa Glicini have skipped against the employer's proposal to increase working hours by 50 hours a year, without any increase in wages. Censis data tell us that women on average work four extra hours a day, have one hour less free time a day, two hours unpaid work a day. We make a pact and abolish the laws that have made the work precarious, starting with jobs act: reducing the rights means hitting even more those of rights already less. We make a pact and in the next DEF and then in the law of stability we predict not slide, but a real and stable financing for the anti-violence centers and for the fight against violence, we put funds for prevention and we commit ourselves to implementing the Istanbul Convention. Let's make a pact and guarantee women freedom of choice: enough with this obscurantist debate about objector doctors! We make a pact and approve a plan of stabilisation for the precarious and precarious of the school: there are many women teachers who with professionalism and care take care of education, without even the necessary professional and salary recognition. We make a deal and invest resources in public school to work with kids on gender equality. Let's make a deal, and let's not just be indignant if some newspaper reports that at FIAT men can't go to the bathroom for work shifts. Let us try to put ourselves in the shoes of women, in the same situation, as Senator Barozzino has often denounced in this House: perhaps it will have even more effect. We make a covenant and note that the love that two women or two men can give their children is love and we make possible adoptions between same-sex couples, without making the judges decide. Let us make a pact and work for peace, because wars affect everyone, but above all women and children and let us not turn to the other side when they arrive in our country: they are the same women, the same children, the same men for whom we are moved in front of images of war and death in their countries. Let's make a pact and change the language and the ways of politics. Let's make a deal and make women free. Only when women are fully free will the world be free. Every more right for women, in history, is paid an extra right for all and every deprivation of rights for women has made everyone less free. More freedom for women, more freedom for all: only this way every day will be March 8. Happy March 8th to all of us. [[Applause from the Misto-SI-SEL Group and Senator Bencini.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-780.ana.u33	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-780.ana.u34	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-780.ana.u35	Montevecchi (M5S). Madam President, I would like to start with a few numbers, to see what we are talking about when we are celebrating the day of the woman, rightly worrying that everything is not exhausted in a fake rhetoric. I would therefore like to start from the fact that Italian women get the best results at school and at universities, but then they are penalized at work. They are penalized with regard to the possibilities of advancement at work, by lower wages and even when they decide to embark on the wonderful adventure of motherhood. In the last quarter of 2016, according to ISTAT, there are 1,383,000 unemployed women and the unemployment rate for women is 12.7%, or 1.9% more than for men. As far as the employment rate is concerned, there is a gap in favour of men of 12.2 percentage points. He has an indefinite contract of 48 percent of women, compared to 58 percent of men. Women executives are still one rarity: women are one in four executives. Italy is ranked 49th in 145 countries analysed by the World Economic Forum in the index of gender inequality. If all women in Italy crossed their arms, however, 2 billion euros would go into smoke, regardless of the work at home and the care of their children. Today in Italy women still have to fight to see their rights recognized and to combat violence against women. We remember that in 2016 there were 116 cases of feminicide. Let us also remember that the Istanbul Convention, in force in Italy since August 2014, still has many aspects that have failed and so many still remain ink on a sheet of paper. The global women's strike today, launched in Argentina and which concerns not only Italy, but also 40 countries, wants to involve all women and launch this alarm cry. Politics must listen to him by acting and doing effective things. Forgive me, but in this Parliament we did not have the sensitivity to dedicate the decree to combat the feminicide of 2013 only to women because we put ourselves in another. This is a wound we can't forget. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] We should, therefore, certainly improve conciliation policies; we should ensure equal pay; we should ensure real and real monitoring of gender violence; we should ensure that school education for differences and affectivity is an initiative that finds concreteness and is truly implemented with resources, in terms of people and money, adequate for it to be effective because it is from school that everything starts. We should perhaps consider setting up a Ministry of Equal Opportunities and perhaps monitor that the Department of Equal Opportunities, today within the Presidency of the Council, carries out truly effective initiatives. Without all these things, without concrete action, only words and acts remain without monitoring the real impact of the rules contained in them. Let's remember that if still today so many anti-violence centers are in difficulty - he told us also a beautiful episode of "Presadirecta" by Riccardo Iacona - it is because there is still a problem of invested resources. So I would like to take this opportunity to make an appeal and to call on this House to make adequate investments in order to carry out concrete initiatives, beyond the political opportunity of the façade. If all this happens, then in the next 8 March of this country's life those days will be illuminated not only by the yellow color of the beautiful flower of the mimosa, but also by the smiles of women proud to be such and proud of a country that values them as such and enhances its merit and great abilities. [[Applause from the M5S, Misto-SI-SEL and Senator Gatti Groups]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-780.ana.u36	I have to say that the senators who are intervening are back to the second stage. You've done an exceptional calculation.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-780.ana.u37	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-780.ana.u38	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-780.ana.u39	PELINO (FI-PdL XVII). Madam President, today is an unusual 8 March compared to those we were used to: they have seen less mimosa around and they have felt less wishful thinking about women. It's not a holiday, it's a strike. Women strike all over the world: it is a protest that wants to be against gender discrimination, against all sorts of violence and humiliation. Of course, we do not need to abstain from the work and tasks we perform every day. It is enough for each of us to be able to emphasize that women are at the heart of the world of work, of the family and of society. Because we know that a woman's day lasts longer than that of a man, in the various activities that advance our civilization. Every woman adds that something more like mom or simply in the business of the house. We welcome the proliferation of apical figures in many areas of enterprise and democratic institutions. And I would like to take this opportunity to extend my warmest thanks to Dr. Elizabeth Serafin, who unparalleledly directs the administration of the institution to which we belong, as well as to you, Madam President. It is also enough to take a look at the many directions of the ministries or the toilets of public bodies, to see how the apical sectors are enriched every day with new female figures. Even in the management roles of international companies there are women driving giants like General Motors, Yahoo, IBM, Pepsi, Xerox, Disney, Sony, Avon, Time, Burberry; and here I stop, because the list is long. But even Italy does not lack women of great value at the top of important companies such as ENI, ENEL, Poste italiani, Mondadori, Prada and many others. Then we have an astronaut woman and a woman in charge of CERN, the most important European research center. These women represent a change of mentality, at a certain level, so our society relies on roles of great responsibility to women of high thickness, who have nothing to envy men who have preceded them in those roles. Therefore, even those reservations of posts obtained on the boards of directors of companies, by means of a law voted by Parliament, have proved appropriate today. Of course, much still needs to be done to get women to acquire further executive roles in the enterprise. Women are winning those places today with their own ability and determination. Similarly, in politics, the reserves of seats on the electoral lists, although we do not all agree, have served to increase a political class in women. These roles have now been shown by our women to be able to occupy them with competence and political sensitivity. In the school our girls are almost always among the first of the class, because they understood the value of study, commitment and preparation. But the new generations still find obstacles in our society, especially women who also want to be mothers, due to the lack of an adequate welfare system to support the family and due to an unequal load of tasks between men and women. And in the workplace there are often different wages in equal jobs. So we all, all of us, have to work to overcome those social, organizational and gender stereotypes that unfortunately still exist. Above all, it is essential to transmit that culture of respect for women which unfortunately is not at the centre of the models that our society proposes. Unfortunately, on this, there is still a lot, but a lot to do. [[Applause from the FI-PdL XVII and PD groups and Senator De Petris.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-780.ana.u40	Senator, I would like to acknowledge and share the appreciation expressed towards our Secretary General, Dr. Elizabeth Serafin, and to recall that she was the first woman to carry out this apical task in an institutional body of this level. I do indeed agree with what has been said. Even if he's not here right now, I know the Secretary General is still following our work. [[Applause from the PD and FI-PdL XVII groups and Senator De Petris.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-780.ana.u41	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-780.ana.u42	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-780.ana.u43	Mr Maturani (PD). Madam President, I would like to start by thanking the Senate Studies Service, which has provided us with such an important document on the history of institutional engagement, starting with the reflection on Article 3 of our Constitution up to the present day, and the work done by women within the institutions: the important laws that have not only given concrete response to what is referred to in Article 3 of our Constitution, but have in recent years addressed the crucial issues of equal opportunities and the fundamental recognition of the value of gender difference, working and proposing rules for finally in our society these differences and values to be implemented concretely. Mrs Pelino said that we saw few mimosas today. There was no strong expression of good wishes exchanged among women. But I want to exchange my best wishes with the colleagues in this House and with the women in our country. Today women celebrate the anniversary of their International Day. From the speeches of colleagues and from the articles that we have read today and which have occupied the reflections that have appeared in the press these days on this appointment have emerged many of the issues that underline the not yet achieved achievement of what Article 3 of the Constitution provides in relation to the fundamental role of women in our society. There have also been reflections that have accompanied us and continue to accompany us on the many dramas that women live in the daily life of our society. Today virtually all colleagues and colleagues have recalled the theme of the drama of violence that women suffer in our country. Despite the important rules that this Parliament has also adopted - I would say above all - in the last four years, it remains the ferocious drama of the will to annihilate women, who often pay with their lives the will to assert their point of view and their freedom. I would like to remind you that many of the conquests we are talking about and that in our country have then turned into norms are certainly born from the many constituent Mothers who have been remembered here, to whom I believe we must turn a thought every time we engage in our battles. In order not to go too far, I would like to remind you that we owe our most important battles to a movement that I believe represented the greatest and most peaceful revolution in our history. I am referring to the feminist movement of our country, which must continue to be of opinion and struggle, which is the salt of democracy. I would like to put to the attention of this House a thought and reflection published today in the daily newspaper "Unity." It is an open letter to the children of our country written by Maria Rita Parsi, a neuropsychiatrist who has always dealt with children and girls. He says to them: we entrust to you the conquests that on this day women emphasize and that were the conquests of the battles of your mothers, your grandmothers. We entrust them to you because the path and the battle are still long, but we also entrust you with the awareness that those who today are recognized rights, those conquests that today are universally recognized rights are the fruit of the commitment and the battles that continue and must continue, because women in our country (but not only in our country) have not reached the fulfillment of the affirmation of constitutional law. Today women are demonstrating their commitment and reflection in so many different ways. Today we are discussing, debating and remembering, Madam President, the many important steps we have taken in this parliamentary term: we have worked very hard against violence against women, we have adopted rules on equality in the institutions and important standards in the field of work and health. But there are still many important things that we are committed to work on: I think about the norm of which we begin to discuss and which concerns forced marriages and early marriages that concern girls, often coming from countries where women's rights have not reached the right level of recognition and valorization. We must make a strong commitment to this. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. You have to finish, Senator Maturani. Mr Maturani (PD). I say that today we are many, different and we fight differently, choosing different themes and actions. It is precisely for this reason that I believe it is important that, albeit with different actions, we all remain on the same side. We want to fight for women's rights; we fight and we want to reaffirm that feminism today is a principle and an important way to keep in mind a number of different thoughts, but they all lead to the promotion of women's rights and women's thinking, and above all to the commitment to those women who today live in certain societies and strongly ask us to be supported. [[The microphone is automatically switched off.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-780.ana.u44	Senator Maturani, we have all given the same time, the debate has been very interesting, but I have to close the debate now. If you wish, you can hand over the full text of your speech so that it can be annexed to today's Minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-780.ana.u45	Mr Maturani (PD). Thank you, Madam President, I will give you the last thoughts. [[Applause from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-780.ana.u46	I thank all my colleagues. Of course, the debate that has just been concluded has been of great interest and the debate was necessary, because today is a very important day. This morning, at the Presidency of the Republic at the Quirinale, a very heartfelt and intense celebration took place. We hope that this will serve to remind us, as every year, of the path we still have to make: a great path that has been emphasized in all your speeches and indicates a moment of strong responsibility for all of us too. At this point good festivity of women and we hope to be able to do a good job in this area. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-780.ana.u47	The next item is the debate on the resolution adopted by the Council of Ministers on Italy's participation in international missions, adopted on 14 January 2017 (Doc. XXIV, No 71). The report has already been printed and distributed. The rapporteurs, Senators Vattuone and Sangalli, asked to supplement the written report. I therefore call the rapporteur, Senator Vattuone.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-780.ana.u48	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I think it is important to focus on the fundamental novelty of the fact that today the Senate is called upon to examine the authorisation measure for participation in international missions under the new procedure introduced by Law No 145 of 21 July 2016. It is well known that our Constitution does not contain any predictions regarding the use of the military instrument abroad, with the exception of the provisions concerning the state of war. For a long time, therefore, in view of the fact that there was to all intents and purposes a lack of regulation which, on the other hand, corresponded to a situation of real necessity, the choice to contribute in accordance with Article 11 of our Constitution to the collective effort of the international community for stabilisation, Parliament had to follow, in order to send our quotas, the procedure based on the decree of urgency, with all the limitations that we know of this procedure that were punctually reiterated to every measure of extension. [[Brusio]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-780.ana.u49	Senator Vattuone, I'm gonna have to ask you to get a little closer to the microphone because you can't hear anything.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-780.ana.u50	Vattuone, rapporteur. This is not a procedural change, but a substantial one. The new regulatory framework leads to greater stability of resources, greater planning capacity, even operational, and makes Parliament's contribution more explicit and incisive, allowing for greater control of the coherence of missions with the priorities of Italian foreign policy and with the policies of multilateral organisations of which we are part and above all explicit how, at a historical stage in which we ask our military instrument and our armed forces increasingly committed both on national territory and abroad, the work of the Government and Parliament (and in this regard it is also the case to remember the reform of cooperation of 2014) has succeeded in determining new legislative instruments to express a more effective defence and security policy, to the level of the role we intend to play in the international context. Above all today, Italy can claim not only an international position consolidated by a multiannual assumption of responsibility, but that it has helped to form the agenda that concerns the priorities of the security and defence policies of the European Union and NATO. With regard to the content of the Resolution of the Council of Ministers on Italian participation in international missions as far as the Defense is concerned, particular importance is assumed by the section on the political-military framework, which identifies the strategic and operational contexts in which it is considered necessary to intervene in 2017. In particular, the fight against terrorist radicalism, the security of the Euro-Mediterranean area, active support for the initiatives of the Atlantic Alliance in relation to the crisis profiles along the eastern and southern borders of the Alliance and, finally, participation in the UN peace and international stability measures are underlined. In particular, the contexts relating to the fight against the threat posed by the Daesh are also defined, with particular reference to the work of the Italian contingent in Iraq (to be precise, 1497 men are employed there), mainly engaged in the difficult stabilisation of the liberated zones. Special attention is therefore given to Lebanon. The document also focuses on the problems of the situation in Libya and the adjacent Mediterranean area. The area is, in fact, of particular importance to national interests and sees a number of missions undertaken, directly and indirectly. They note, in this case, the Hippocrates health support mission on the Libyan territory, which engages about 300 men, the UN mission UNSMIL to support the political reconstruction of the country, the bilateral mission to support the Libyan coastguard (which engages 20 military for logistic activities and 30 for technical activities) and the European mission Eunavfor Med (which engages 585 men, a naval unit and two aircraft), to which is also added the national military operation Safe Sea (with 700 men employed, 4 naval units and 5 airplanes). Attention is also reserved to all missions in the Balkans and Afghanistan. Particular emphasis is also placed on national participation in the strengthening of NATO's arrangements, which sees, in addition to the confirmation of the contribution to the initiatives already undertaken in Turkey to defend the South-East borders of the Alliance, the launch of new missions to support the Atlantic initiatives in Latvia, Bulgaria and Iceland. In this context it is appreciated the particular importance given to the Mediterranean scenario, which involves important national and European interests. In fact, the Euro-Mediterranean region is witnessing the dangerous weakening of traditional state structures and the pursuit of political, social and cultural models alternative to the democratic one, giving rise, even a short distance from the Italian coasts, to the proliferation of terrorist organizations. The security of the Euro-Mediterranean region and of the Euro-Atlantic region remains both essential and complementary pillars of the national security and defence architecture, focusing on active participation in the consolidated mechanisms for prevention, deterrence and collective defence of the Atlantic Alliance and the European Union. The discussion of the measure to extend international missions and development cooperation initiatives and support for peace processes takes place at a very worrying time for the future of the European Union and in general for those who work for policies that are more multilateral: we see continually the dissemination of new principles based on new terminology - sovereignism and neo-protectionism - which presume to be able to protect more, compared to the international order as we have known so far, national interests. The danger is a drift of completely defensive and regressive reactions that, in a world subject to a continuous transformation, risk locking up the individual nations inside completely anachronistic fences, in fact surrendering them to impotence, before the rules of a globalized world: this applies to the economy and finance and even more to security and defence policies. This strengthens the reasons for our commitment, our role in maintaining peace and international security. I think it is worth remembering that the global strategic and geopolitical environment is evolving rapidly and is becoming increasingly complex and less predictable: just remember the emergence of Daesh and its enormous capacity for penetration and offense, the conflicts in Syria and Iraq, the issue of migratory flows that, in the absence of proper management, have led to a vicious circle. This means that only through common policies within the framework of our traditional references can our country affect, especially today that Italy can claim not only an international position consolidated by a multi-year assumption of responsibility, but also to have helped form the agenda that concerns the priorities of the security and defence policies of the European Union and NATO. In conclusion, the Joint Committees on Foreign Affairs and Defence welcomed the content of the deliberations of the Council of Ministers. A number of requests, which emerged in the course of the debate, asked the Government to consider whether it would be appropriate to take action at the relevant international fora so that the conditions necessary to implement the third phase of the EUNAVFOR Med mission could be fulfilled. As for the numbers, the total staff involved is 7.459 units belonging to the Armed Forces (with the average consistency of 6.698 units) and 167 units of the police forces, for a total expenditure requirement for 2017 of approximately 1.132 million euros, decreasing compared to 2016, when it was 1,308 million, therefore with a lower expenditure of 175 million euros. With the foregoing, the Commissions together propose to the Shareholders' Meeting to authorize all the missions and activities referred to in the Resolution of the Council of Ministers of 14 January 2014 within the time limits laid down in the resolution in question. [[Applause from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-780.ana.u51	I call the rapporteur, Senator Sangalli.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-780.ana.u52	Madam President, this resolution, which has been submitted to the House under Rule 50 (3) of the Rules of Procedure, is an important novelty compared to what has been done in recent years: for the first time, in fact, Parliament is called upon to address the issue of international missions under the relevant framework law (No 145 of 2016). Therefore, we operate in a regulatory context that simplifies our decision and identifies the strategic plan of intervention, which then declines in the interventions of the missions illustrated by Senator Vattuone. By means of the act of address under consideration, the Foreign Affairs and Defence Committees have welcomed the content of the Resolution of the Council of Ministers on Italy's participation in international missions for the year 2017, authorising the missions contained therein. He mentioned the procedural aspects of the new legislation, while, as rapporteur for the Committee on Foreign Affairs, I will focus my attention on the development cooperation measures envisaged in the government resolution. The geographical areas of intervention identified in the resolution confirm that the Italian action is mainly aimed at four directions: the contrast to the international terrorist threat, the guarantee of the security of the Euro-Mediterranean area, the support to the action of the Atlantic Alliance for the risks coming from its eastern and especially southern borders and, finally, the support to the initiatives of the United Nations for international peace and stability. The document underlines that the current international situation continues to be characterised by widespread instability, resulting from the numerous unresolved conflicts also present in the areas of the European Neighbourhood, in particular in that period of crisis ranging from West Africa to Afghanistan. The Mediterranean, in particular, is at the centre of this area of instability and has seen in recent years increasing the signs of destabilisation due to the emergence of local conflicts, the terrorist threat, the collapse of state realities, and the uncontrolled spread of migratory phenomena. Faced with such a complex scenario, the document confirms once again the multilateralist approach of our country, with a commitment aimed at supporting those activities and missions through which the international community aims to stabilise critical areas and overcome conflict scenarios. The commitment to combining the military dimension with the civilian dimension - which is a bit the characteristic figure of our foreign engagement that is valued by all our international interlocutors - is also confirmed with the aim of promoting a stabilisation that is more lasting than what can be achieved with the only military instrument. This translates into the availability of cooperation resources for humanitarian initiatives, the strengthening of the rule of law, support for local administrations, the consolidation of governance structures and economic and social improvement: all activities that accompany international missions in the strict sense. Chapter V of the government document illustrates the state of these interventions: the various cooperation initiatives; participation in civil missions in the European, OSCE and other international organisations; actions to support the peace processes and the stabilisation of the institutions; emergency interventions to protect Italian citizens and interests and, finally, humanitarian demining operations. For these issues too, the government document is divided into a series of sheets illustrating the different areas of action. As far as development cooperation initiatives and humanitarian mine clearance operations are concerned, Table 45 provides a detailed description of the geographical areas of intervention, ranging from Afghanistan to Ethiopia, the Central African Republic to Libya, Syria to Iraq. The government document also highlights how, in order to address the migration emergency, Italy will continue to contribute to European and international initiatives on migration and development, starting from the European fund established by the Valletta Summit in November 2015. The total needs for these interventions are estimated at EUR 111 million for 2017. I remember that for the same interventions Decree-Law no. 67 of 2016 had authorized an expenditure, for the year 2016, of 90 million euros. There is therefore a significant increase in the resources available for this type of intervention. Actions to support peace processes, stabilisation and security enhancement are aimed primarily at fostering national reconciliation and transition in Libya, stabilising the democratic process in place in Tunisia, supporting reconstruction in Afghanistan, Iraq and Libya, and supporting those Middle East countries most exposed to the risks of destabilisation, including the strong influx of refugees, such as Lebanon and Jordan. A further commitment concerns the instability that runs from Mauritania to the Horn of Africa, i.e. the places from which the main flows of asylum seekers and economic migrants arriving in Europe originate, through peace initiatives and the strengthening of the security sectors. Sheet 46 of the measure, which illustrates these interventions, provides for a total need of 12 million euros, doubling the appropriations for 2016. As part of the participation in international organizations' initiatives, the document recalls the particular role that our country will play in 2017. [[Brusio]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-780.ana.u53	Colleagues, a little more silence, lower your voice a little, because you can't hear it.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-780.ana.u54	Mr Sangalli, rapporteur. It will be held both as a non-permanent member of the United Nations Security Council and as President-in-Office of the G7. This includes contributions to the Trust Funds of NATO and the United Nations, contributions to support the Special Court for Lebanon, the Union for the Mediterranean and the Mediterranean Integration Centre, as well as EU and OSCE initiatives. The 47, dedicated to illustrate these interventions, quantifyes a requirement of 22 million euros, which is roughly double that quantified for 2016. Finally, the last two government resolutions (Nos. 48 and 49) illustrate the initiatives in support of the security forces in Afghanistan (with an estimated requirement for 2017 of 120 million euros, as in 2016) and operational emergency and security interventions in different crisis areas (with an estimated requirement of 30 million euros, slightly higher than expected last year). The total financial needs for 2017 for the various stabilisation measures outlined are estimated at EUR 295 million. With the approval of the resolution, which therefore includes all the missions, the two Commissions wished to express their support for the authorisation of the missions and other commitments referred to, but invited the Government - and this is a political point that emerged in the Commissions - to consider the possibility of taking action at the relevant international fora, so that the conditions necessary to implement the third phase of the EUNAVFOR Med mission can be fulfilled. Therefore, by substantially changing our attitude and also accepting the debate that has been held in the Commissions, there is this specific invitation that is addressed unitedly by the two Commissions to the Government. The ways in which we discuss this measure should allow us to debate more strategically than the objectives that our country sets itself in international policies, of stabilisation, of adherence to multilateralism and peace, as well as of course to enter into the merits of individual interventions. This time in fact we have put in place, in a completely unified way, the whole of the interventions of international politics in the areas of crisis, together with the military policies that we carry out in that field: it seems to me a step forward both of clarity, of definition of the objectives, and of the mission of our country, that is to be a fundamental part of the international bodies, from the United Nations to come down, for the processes of stabilisation and peace in the world. [[Applause from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-780.ana.u55	I declare the debate open. Senator Pegorer is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-780.ana.u56	Madam President, the documents to our attention implement for the first time, as has been mentioned, the procedure introduced less than a year ago by Law No 145 of 21 July 2016, law that has led to the overcoming of the procedure based on the decree of urgency that we have followed for many years and that had clear limits, always emphasized at every parliamentary passage. Today the sending of our quotas abroad is authorized by the Chambers within a unified regulatory framework, which involves the prerogatives of the President of the Republic, Parliament and the Government, and which allows clearer planning both operational and financial. As you know, today both branches of Parliament can not only approve the resolution of the Government, but also support various possible prescriptions and graduations in the commitments. Madam President, in order to carry out a thorough analysis of the measure, account must be taken of the international political framework and its evolutions, as the rapporteur, Mr Sangalli, mentioned earlier. Two factors, above all, seem to me to envisage a new international framework: the progressive decommitment of the United States of America from the European and Mediterranean scenarios, even more accentuated by the statements in many respects worrying by the new President Trump, and the new diplomatic and military protagonism of the Russian Federation in the Middle East, Eastern Europe and the Balkans. It is precisely in this latter area, which is always important for Italian relations and interests, that the tensions and outbreaks of crises that remain and re-emerge in Kosovo, Macedonia and Montenegro are of concern. In this context, we can only look positively at the new impulses to European defence integration policies. All this is significant, precisely because the European project is facing many problems today. In fact, despite this difficult political moment in the European Union, the defence sector has made significant progress in recent months. In this respect, it is worth recalling the document by the High Representative Federica Mogherini on the European Union's overall strategy for foreign and defence policy, the European Commission's plan of a few months ago on the financing of the Union's military capabilities and, above all, the birth of the first unified military command of the European Union. As Mr Silveri himself referred to in his communications this morning with a view to the next European Council, the activation of this Command, which is operational in the coming weeks, is in itself a very important fact for the role of the European Union in the global geopolitical context. It is, moreover, a fundamental part of the overall process of European integration, at a stage in the history of the Union which, as I have mentioned above, is particularly difficult. A step forward, therefore, with regard to the objective of a common defence, although the military sphere has always suffered from the resistance of the national states not to want to give up their exclusive prerogatives. It is clear that only effective coordination of the European Union's defence policies and structures will give Europe a significant and effective role in the international framework. We know that our country has long been one of the main contributors to international missions: we are the first among the countries of the European Union in personnel engaged in UN missions and the second in NATO missions. Today the framework of these commitments is even more important because it expresses our adherence to the principles of multilateralism, called into question by the spread of protectionist and unilateral positions; positions that deny a clear reality: the typology and complexity of the crises before us, from terrorism to the management of the flows of migrants, to the different instability of the geopolitical scene, to the effects determined by the processes of globalization. These conditions can only be addressed through concerted and multilateral responses. For this reason it must be reiterated today that Italy can affirm its international position in the geopolitical scenario, starting from a decisive action for the defence of international law, in order to correspond to the decisions of the United Nations, in a framework of reference established by the European Union and the Atlantic Alliance. Also because, never as today, the profile of some international missions to our attention follows the imprint that Italy wanted to impress and that corresponds to particular interests: I am referring above all to the centrality of the Mediterranean, today recognized on the international agenda, and that, without rhetoric, I believe is an extremely positive fact. On the whole, therefore, Madam President, the measure under discussion today affirms the international role pursued by our country, with an approach that bases our participation in the missions always in the field of multilateralism, the promotion of peace and the resolution of conflicts. From this point of view, the same measures of international cooperation must be taken into account. With reference to the graduation of commitments and to their overall framework of reference, I would like to put to the attention of the Assembly, of the rapporteurs and also of the Government, some commitments of our Country, which I hope can be the subject of discussion and clarification, even in the future. I believe, for example, that our presence in Afghanistan should be closely monitored in the light of developments in Afghanistan. Of course, Afghanistan in the course of history has always represented the point of confrontation and interweaving between different empires, such as the Russian and British empires, of different areas of influence at the time of the Cold War and today is also at the center of economic and strategic interests, which can define new international balances. It must be pointed out, however, that the results of the Western military presence appear at least partial, compared to the objectives set by the presence of the various contingents in that territory. This is all the more true both in terms of the fight against terrorism, as shown by the dramatic assault of these hours at the military hospital in Kabul, both in terms of the stabilisation of the country and the solidification of its democratic institutions and the promotion of civil liberties. In the face of all this, it seems necessary, therefore, to carefully assess the evolving situation and to try to better define the content of our presence. In fact, the ongoing mission, launched as advice and assistance to Afghan security forces and government institutions, seems obliged to counter the emergence of the Taliban and terrorism and, in fact, should be remedied for objectives and purposes. The other scenario that sees us present and that touches in a meaningful way the interests of Italy is certainly Libya. With that country Italy has an ancient relationship, which has developed in several important and dramatic passages of our history. As is well known, Libya today is the starting point for thousands of migrants from its shores looking for a landing place in Europe through Italy. The flow of these people is systematically prey to criminal organizations, which perform abominable acts of violence and exploitation and it is precisely because of its value on the humanitarian front that collaboration with that country is indispensable. Of course, we are aware of the difficulties of the Libyan institutions, which question its own unity. It is therefore essential that our action, together with the rest of the international community, be aimed at overcoming the divisions of the different political and territorial factions, in order to find a compromise that brings stability to the country and allows the reconstruction of an institutional and democratic fabric. In this context, it is a matter of closely monitoring the conditions and outcomes of our presence in that context, in order to pursue more effectively the objectives of peace and stabilisation of the area, also ensuring the security of any personnel engaged. Particular attention must also be paid to the issue of migrants in Libya, where, as the President of the Council reminded us this morning, our intervention and our role are not only in the national interest but also in the European Union as a whole. The aim must be to regulate and restore the phenomenon of migratory flows from that area to legality and normality, which is one of the challenges for the affirmation of the principles of civilization and humanity. Finally, Madam President, I would like to make a final comment on our participation in the NATO operation in Latvia, Estonia, Lithuania and Poland. As you know, it falls within the scope of the demands of those countries as members of the Atlantic Alliance and in the same new strategy formalized at the last Warsaw Summit. It cannot escape that the new protagonism of the Russian Federation creates evident tensions in those countries. In any case, any intervention must, in my opinion, be subordinate to overcoming tensions through the political and diplomatic path, with the involvement of all parties and, in this sense, it must be carefully assessed how any action envisaged is useful to promote diplomatic processes of détente. Madam President, I conclude by saying that, on the whole, the role of our country in international missions must necessarily continue to take place in the womb of Article 11 of our Constitution, in the sign of our contribution to strengthening us in security, democracy and human rights in the world. [[Applause from the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, Art.1-MDP and Senator Campanella.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-780.ana.u57	Senator De Pin is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-780.ana.u58	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, Italian citizens are the unarmed spectators of continuous cuts in public school of every order and grade, an increasingly non-existent welfare system, a health system crushed by a lack of staff and a lack of economic resources. Employment in the order of precariousness and exploitation does not allow young people to make the slightest project, even in the short term. You die in the factories; you die in the middle of the fields. All this has a negative effect on the birth rate, which, as we have heard these days, collapses dramatically. This is the government that proceeds along the lines of good school and jobs act, consistent with the EU's dictates and international military directives that make it lean towards the allocation of increasing resources for old and new military expenditures. For 2017 the Silveri Gentiloni Government has increased military spending on missions abroad, with tripled numbers for the mission in Libya and an increase of NATO's in the Baltic and Black Sea, in anti-Russian terms. Overall, there are 7,600 men, 1,300 land vehicles, 54 aircraft and 13 ships, for missions active in 22 countries. Moreover, since January, the new framework law governing military missions abroad has entered into force, which in fact definitively deletes Article 11 of the Constitution. Military spending on international missions has as a more obvious result a ferocious and bloodthirsty return terrorism and uncontrolled migration. It is a vicious circle whose final product will be the allocation, however, of other resources indirectly linked to the above military expenditures. We continue to forage wars - because this is what it is about - which, in reality, are nominating in expansionist and commercial opportunities for the Western powers and in poverty and death for those territories, undermined by the bombs and interferences of foreign governments. With the excuse of exporting democracy the imperialism that destroys the self-determination of the peoples is forgiven. We are not surprised, then, when 182,000 people land in Italy; when 15,000 unaccompanied minors arrive on our coasts, with numbers doubled compared to previous years. Let's not get ex-posted if one in 40 doesn't make it through. All we do is pay the speculators and the scafists who live on other people's lives. We cannot pretend to fail to understand that these missions are nothing more than the bearers of the interests of the dominant states and large industrial groups. Do you realize that we will have to implement the resources in this regard for an initiative for European reassurance, citing a step from NATO? But what reassurance are we talking about if millions of people are massacred by policies of cuts? At a NATO summit, the largest military deployment in Europe has been decided since the Cold War. All this happens because our Government, once again focusing on US imperialism, hopes to maintain its privileged role in Libya, a place plundered by the few, while the real negative consequences are for the entire Italian population. I am on the side of those who believe that we must withdraw our armed forces from war missions abroad and that NATO must be dismantled as a means of exploitation that generates crises and refugees. President, the EUR 295 million we give to the earthquake victims. [[Applause from Senator Casaletto.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-780.ana.u59	I would like to greet the children and teachers of the Institute of Higher Education "Arimondi-Eula" in Savigliano-Racconigi, in the province of Cuneo. Welcome to follow our work. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-780.ana.u60	He is enlisted to speak Senator Divine. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-780.ana.u61	Madam President, we are talking about yet another authorisation for the extension of more than 40 missions; to be precise, there are 49 with cooperation activities. There are many: we have a pulverization of the presence of our contingents that makes us think that it is quite dispersive; 49 missions mean 49 commands, territorial connections in the first place, but also functional, of every Armed Force. In what context are we operating? Let's make a quick story: the allies, alliances and strategies are changing. The American ally is essentially disengaging and telling European friends that America is spending a little too much on NATO, so he invites them to organize themselves by committing significant resources. We do not blame this attitude, because perhaps the attitude of the previous American administration was wrong. Let us remember that the Obama administration has decided to free the Mediterranean area from dictators. Undoubtedly Ben Ali, Mubarak and Gaddafi were not great democrats, but guaranteed stability in their respective countries, with a culture and tradition completely different from ours. Well, we are lucky that the new American administration will not continue in this idea of freeing peoples from dictators with bombs and in fact the relations between the two great international giants, which the Obama administration had strongly compromised. We are in the middle of the Mediterranean, basically a destabilized area, but with the possibility of returning to play. The new American administration argues that its problem is not to free those countries from dictators; its problem, which is also the problem of the whole world, is international terrorism and to defeat international terrorism requires a great deal of cooperation, first of all among the great global giants of defence policies: Russian Federation and the United States of America. We must take advantage of this new and favourable phase, but we should be consistent: sanctions against the Russian Federation cannot yet be held up and marginalized. I am referring here to Mr Pegorer's reasoning just now, because going to set up missile bases, contingents and military exercises in the Baltic countries on the border with Russia is not a smart move. If anything - and I return to the intervention of Senator Pegorer, who was one of the most important members of the Democratic Party in the Defence Commission - it is with diplomacy and dialogue that the harshness resolves, not with the opposition of force, considered, among other things, that ours would be a small demonstration of strength: we would be able to annoy and beat the calluses to Russian friends. The problem is international terrorism and in this report you stress it: there are 65 countries that cooperate in this direction. Undoubtedly, we would like the relations between us and the Russian Federation to be the best possible, because the Russians have already defeated terrorism within them, Chechen but still Islamic, and have the ability and knowledge, as well as being interested first, given their proximity to the problem, to operate with maximum effectiveness. We are called to a secondary role - so it has been decided - and we will be essentially not in the front row, but in the rear; we will have more humanitarian tasks in terms of the provision of equipment, reconnaissance, surveillance of the areas and training of the security forces both Iraqi and Kurdish. As for the area of Mosul, it seems to us that more than military intervention, a protection of economic interests, which are also legitimate, is being carried out, but more linked to interventions by Italian companies in the area. An important chapter has been dedicated to Libya. In this regard, it would be nice to ask a question: who is with whom? In fact, while it is true that the UN, NATO and the international community generally support and recognise the Provisional Government of Tripoli and its President Serraj, it is equally true that we see that everyone is doing their own business and thinking about what can be tomorrow or the day after tomorrow. Important NATO and European Community countries bordering our country are also supporting and arming the opposing government of Tobruk, under the leadership of General Haftar. At this point we have to ask ourselves how to proceed neatly in a territory that for us is much more important than all others because of two factors. The first factor is energy (we think about the great oil resource and the Italian companies, also in this case, that work in the energy sector), the second factor, are the traffics that, from the area of Chad, Mali and Niger we all know arrive through Libya and land mostly in our country. Therefore, Italy must be two or three times more attentive to this geographical area, so delicate and strategic. Let us not deceive ourselves to see the common security and defence policies take off. A significant part of the report is also devoted to this issue, in which we are talking about the construction of an effective common defence. Let's keep reading nice words. If the European Union wants to be more efficient, it must certainly spend better and, if it has to spend better, it must rationalise resources (means, interfaceability, equipment and armaments). However, we know that armaments are not free, they are not on the market. (17.59) (Follow DIVINE). Talking about the armaments industry sounds bad. I prefer to talk about defence industries, which are mostly managed by subjects essentially related to governments. These are state industries, which do not have the freedom to operate and are subject to a strict regime, essentially responding to the interests of the country. It is not conceivable that some countries can give up their production because it is decided that the frigates must be French, rather than Italian or that the German tracked means are better than ours, or that the Rafale should be preferred to the Eurofighter for air vehicles. We can say that, but it is not feasible, because these are big interests and projects for which conception and implementation take decades and no state can afford it also because they give life to the most important industries like Finmeccanica and Fincantieri, which, although not now having the data at hand, I believe we could enter among the first public enterprises of the country together with the ENI. These are public limited companies, but they are essentially related to the public service and therefore no country will ever be able to step back on this. As a last question, both the reports and the government speak of a third phase of the Eunavfor Med mission. The third phase - let us remember - concerned the dismantling of the boats used by traffickers, but by now the traffickers are four steps ahead of the plans to fight them. By now their boats cost a few thousand euros: they are boats to lose. Think that on each of these pneumatic boats hundreds of people are loaded, each of which will pay from 3,000 to 5,000 euros. Also on this we have to make a separate reasoning: but who embarks is really a poor guy? Poor people don't have those numbers. They are probably not so poor or who knows what debt operations they have to carry out, because the boatmen do that job exclusively to provide themselves with economic resources. Well, if those are boats to lose and we have also "diseducated" the hullers, because they put the essential minimum of gasoline, knowing that once out of the territorial waters someone will go and pick them up (the boat is already paid and the fuel more than it needs), the whole thing is to lose. Therefore we should also be a little more serious in order to be effective if we really want to fight the hullers and traffickers of human beings. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-780.ana.u62	He's enlisted to speak Senator Companione. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-780.ana.u63	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, Minister, with regard to the debate we had last year in this House on international missions, today we are faced with the new fact of the first application of the framework law that Parliament approved last summer. One of the grounds for complaint in the debate - as we will remember - was that the instrument of the decree-law used by the Government did not allow Parliament to make more thoughtful choices, since the Assembly was inevitably faced with a forced grouping of international missions. Today, for the first time, we are called upon to apply two different approved procedures for the extension of existing missions and the authorisation of new missions. In fact, the Government asks us to authorize the ex-novo, through the instrument of the resolution, all the missions in progress, and to authorize four new missions. In the Defence Commission, work has been done sufficiently on time, starting from the document approved by the Council of Ministers in January, but enriching it with an in-depth analysis of the current international scenario, still characterised by widespread instability resulting from a significant number of unresolved conflicts also in the vicinity of the European continent, from West Africa to Afghanistan. The Mediterranean, precisely because of its central location in this area of strong instability, has seen the growth over the years of the serious signs of the emergence of local conflicts, of the terrorist threat, of the collapse of some state realities, and not least of the phenomenon of the epochal migrations to which we are witnessing and which is a very topical topic. A political and military scenario, therefore, particularly complex with respect to which four fundamental guidelines have been identified in which the commitment of our country is explicit: the contrast to the strategy of international terrorism; the security of the Euro-Mediterranean area; active support to NATO initiatives in the crisis territories bordering the countries of the Alliance; participation in the measures adopted by the UN for international stability and peace. With regard to terrorism, the subject of the threat posed by the Daesh and the presence of the Italian contingent in Iraq, second by number only to the United States, as well as the presence of the Italians in Lebanon with about 1,100 men employed, has been duly examined. The situation in Libya - to which an important and interesting focus and particular attention from the Government has been devoted - and in the nearest Mediterranean area is problematic. Here we find extremely direct implications for national interests and different missions are in progress. Just remember the Hippocrates mission with 300 men engaged in health support; the UNSMIL mission to support the political reconstruction of the country; the bilateral mission to support the Libyan coastguard, with over 50 men engaged; the European mission Eunavfor Med, with 585 men, and the national operation Safe Sea, with 700 men engaged plus 4 naval units and 5 airplanes. All this shows a special attention to this area that I think is correct, because it is just a stone's throw from our country. The attention to the Mediterranean cannot therefore know stops, because it is an area that in a truly worrying way has experienced a massive weakening of the traditional state systems, with the affirmation of political, social and cultural models of opposite sign to the democratic ones that have led to the growth of pervasive and libertic organizations with a power of control of vast areas. Therefore, the themes of Euro-Mediterranean and Euro-Atlantic security continue to remain indispensable in order to base our country's active participation on the strategy of prevention and defence. Not only, therefore, are we called upon to give new authorisation to the ongoing missions in Europe, Asia and Africa, but also to authorise the launch of four other missions which specifically concern, as we know, Libya, to support the Libyan authorities in border security activities (with the commitment of three units), participation in the strengthening of NATO's presence in Latvia, participation in the NATO mission in Bulgaria for the surveillance of airspace and participation in the NATO mission in Iceland, always to preserve airspace. Basically, a multilateral approach is confirmed by our country, because in the face of a commitment to support the stabilisation of areas and the overcoming of conflict situations we must not forget that the real figure that must characterize Italy's participation in foreign missions more and more is certainly the humanitarian one, in the conviction that there is no long-term stabilisation of crisis areas that is based solely on the military instrument, but it is absolutely necessary to look at cooperation, initiatives to strengthen the rule of law, to support local administrations and the improvement of economic and social conditions. If these aspects do not increasingly accompany international missions in the strict sense, it is pure illusion to be able to speak of durability in the processes of stability and peace. This year, too, there has been a great deal of talk about economic resources - we have heard it just now - to be engaged in these missions, but we forget that the financial commitments planned on the increase concern various initiatives for cooperation and development, humanitarian initiatives, not least mine clearance, actions to support peace processes, emergency measures to protect citizens and Italian interests. It will therefore focus on national reconciliation in Libya, stabilisation of the peace process in Tunisia, reconstruction in Afghanistan, and support from the Middle East countries concerned with refugee assistance. Moreover, there is the theme of the migratory emergency, so Italy will continue to contribute to European and international initiatives also looking at the instability belt that goes from Mauritania to the Horn of Africa, which are then the places where the various migratory flows originate, and certainly this is the right direction: to try to intervene in these territories to prevent migratory flows (because another way to do it in an objective civil way does not exist). In this context, we can only pay attention to the news that comes to us today about the birth of a first unified command of European military missions. This is an important step in the management of military missions with a single planning and command centre, at least as far as so-called non-executive operations are concerned, namely those intended to support the armed forces of a third country. We know of the cross-references and political difficulties that have led over the decades to the emergence of an overall strategy for a real European Security and Defence Union. This seems to us to be an important step towards the strengthening and autonomy of Europe in the international scenario, which has recently appeared, on the other hand, weakened and frayed, also conveying to the citizens of the Union a sense of mistrust and insecurity as regards our defence and especially as regards the future of Europe itself. In the light of all this, the motion for a resolution on the renewal of authorisations for current missions, as well as the one on new missions, will only be able to vote in favour of our Group. [[Applause from the ALA-SCCLP Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-780.ana.u64	Senator Santangelo is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-780.ana.u65	Madam President, Madam Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the citizens who listen to us from outside, trying to make some clarity, at this stage of the debate I will try to give some more data than was reported by the rapporteurs, who probably forgot to mention the expenses for each mission. All in all, there are about 49 missions. In Europe there is a mission to the Balkans which is expected to spend almost EUR 79 million, equivalent to the funding entered for 2016, but slightly higher than in 2015. We have the Althea mission in Bosnia, for which EUR 274,000 have been entered; a mission in Albania and the Balkans, for a total of EUR 6 million; a mission in Kosovo, for a total of EUR 1,379 million, and another two missions always in Kosovo, for which there is an expenditure of EUR 115,000 and EUR 63,000. Then there is the Eunavfor Med mission in the Mediterranean, for which we spend about €43.149 million. Among other things, this mission was divided into three phases, but to date the third is not feasible. Therefore, together with other colleagues, we cannot understand how it is still possible to allocate money on it to date. Let's move on. Moving on to Libya (so we are closer and we can better perceive what we do), we have the Hippocrates operation, for which 43.585 million euros are placed, the Support mission in Libya with 453,000 euros, the EUBAM Libya mission with 266,000 euros. Then there is another operation at sea. Moreover, these operations often overlap and at least we hope that the Minister will give us some more indication to dispel these doubts as to what the differences are. For the Safe Sea operation we allocate almost 84 million euros. Mrs. Minister, I do not say this in order to make controversy, but if the operation is called Safe Sea, I wonder what security is given through it and to whom it is addressed if in 2017 a vessel of Mazara del Vallo suffered an attack with bullets that arrived to our citizens who were at sea to work (so far the Government has not given an answer on this matter, even if other parliamentary forces together with the 5 Star Movement have asked for clarification). Surely this operation is not aimed at our Sicilian fishermen. As if that were not enough, there is the additional new Sea Guard mission for which EUR 17.538 million are allocated. Moving towards Asia, Afghanistan has the Resolute support mission, for which EUR 174,391 million has been allocated, with 900 soldiers, 148 land vehicles and eight aircraft. We have been in that area for about fifteen years, so in this model of defense that you are describing in this act in a specific and analytical way I would like to understand if there is also an end prediction or if it is a sine die mission, which has begun and is not known when it will end. Continuing, there is a mission of the Italian Red Cross - there would be no more - for which EUR 21.5 million are allocated. Turning to Lebanon, where we have been for over fifty years, I also ask you a question without any controversy. We must also admit as a 5 Star Movement that this is one of the truly best successful missions, so we must acknowledge it, but it has been going on for over fifty years, so I believe that from a temporal point of view it may be necessary to stop it. In this case we have even 1,100 soldiers and an expenditure of 150 million euros. There are other funding, for over one million euros, for the training of Palestinian forces, but let's go to the most significant voices: an anti-Daesh coalition for 300 million euros, with about 1,500 military; a NATO mission for about 12 million euros; another NATO mission for almost two million euros and yet another, always from NATO, for an additional 1,816 million euros. It may seem repetitive, but it is important to make all citizens understand what this Government wants to do in foreign and defence policy and how it wants to invest public money. Another NATO mission in Latvia: EUR 20 million; another mission in Bulgaria for EUR 11.5 million; a mission in Iceland for EUR 3 million; a mission in the Horn of Africa for EUR 25 million. We remain in Africa: one mission to Djibouti and another to Mali, where we spend about 1.1 million euros. Also on these missions, Madam Minister, I would like to open a moment of reflection because often the valuable and important work that our soldiers do abroad with the utmost professionalism consists in training military forces on the spot. We have tried to understand how the selections of these soldiers take place. Why? Because it could also happen that some of the military trained abroad, once the training has been completed, can pass on to the other side, and therefore rather than defending the local people maybe we could find them armed and against our own mission. Another fact is included in the tables. When we also talk to our military, very often, the element that emerges - and is a source of pride - is the precious work done with the people. A work that is probably not well recognised and rewarded even by the budget that is included because, if we go to see, for example, in relation to development cooperation - which is often talked about - consider that of the EUR 1.4 billion we spend on international missions, only EUR 111 million is allocated to development cooperation. One of the rapporteurs then spoke of reconstruction, peace and stabilisation processes. How do we Italians want to make them? Of the EUR 1.4 billion, we spend EUR 12 million, so absolutely nothing. On the other hand, we spend EUR 22 million on participation in international peace and security organisations. Then there's the cherry on the cake. In fact, as you realized that the numbers were absolutely inadequate, to inflate you indicated the total sum, but if we go to see within this, 120 million euros are used as a financial contribution to the Afghan security forces. This cannot be defined as a voice to be blamed for cooperation, but it must be put somewhere else. By throwing the sums, of the approximately 49 missions - and among them it is true that there are very small missions, where perhaps one or two military are engaged - we consider that less than 300 million euros is the sum that Italy invests in development cooperation and the really peace processes. Let us begin to call things with the most correct name: let us not call them "missions of peace" (because otherwise there should be at least one billion euros related to these voices), they are military missions to all intents and purposes. We have also tabled, Madam President, agendas, which I hope we can briefly explain at a later stage, hopefully in the attention of the Government, given the important issues that we have allowed ourselves to submit. [[Applause from the M5S Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-780.ana.u66	He's enlisted to speak Senator Battista. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-780.ana.u67	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, Minister, I would like to express my satisfaction today, for the first time, following the new provisions of the Framework Law on International Missions, which enabled us to examine a comprehensive and precise regulatory instrument. I would like to thank the Presidents and rapporteurs of their Permanent Affairs and Defence Committees for their work in the Commission, where the political-military framework for the operations contained therein has been explained, the missions to be extended for 2017 and the new missions to be launched, as well as the state of the cooperation and development interventions. The section on the political and military framework, which identifies the strategic and operational contexts in which action is deemed necessary for the current year, deserves particular attention. In particular, it stresses the contrast to terrorist radicalism, the security of the Euro-Mediterranean area, active support for the Atlantic Alliance's initiatives in relation to the crisis profiles along the eastern and southern borders and the UN measures for international peace and stability. Among other things, the European Union has supported 16 military and civilian missions, such as Eunavfor Med Sophia, with the aim of blocking boats and human trafficking from Libya to Italy, through which cooperation has been started with the Libyan authorities, or at least with some of them, demonstrating that operations have not only a purely strategic-military aspect, but also a political-pragmatic one. However, in order to implement the much evoked third phase of the Eunavfor Med mission, that in which criminal networks on the Libyan territory could be opposed, we must also have a contextualized vision, bearing in mind the process related to UN Resolution 2240 of 2015. In this regard, I recall that, when we visited the Eunavfor Med Command with the Defence Commission, Admiral Credendino, commander of the operation, informed us that already in a first phase it was required to be able to intervene in the Libyan national waters, as was the case with the anti-piracy mission. This did not happen; a paradoxical aspect, I would say. Therefore, I invite all of you to be curious and to ask you from which country this opposition came. Also worthy of mention is the remodulation of the NATO mission Active endeavour, now called Sea Guardian, in support of Operation Sophia and in coordination with the European Coast Guard. And again, it is worth mentioning missions in the Balkan area, such as K-for, because they are the emblematic case of developments in constant development. The reality that represents the Balkan area - well described by my colleague Mr Pegorer - confronts us with situations such as those in Kosovo, where we are working on the birth of our own army; a decision that the international community cannot accept unilaterally. Moreover, even if it is not the specific object of this measure, I think that a commitment of our country to place at the heart of the international debate (especially European) a new season of international codification, aimed at establishing rules, even constitutional, Internet oriented. Last but not least, a brief reflection on some aspects of the White Paper on Defence. As early as 2012, under Law 244, the Defense understood the urgent need to revise the military instrument, in the face of the pressing demands imposed by global challenges to security and the difficult economic and financial situation. Despite the work of these years and the economic crisis, we are still far from the NATO target of 2% of GDP for defence, certainly a difficult goal in the short and medium term. But a goal that can be achieved must be a better distribution of military spending, with 50% dedicated to staff, 25% dedicated to the exercise and 25% dedicated to the investment (compared to the current 75% for staff, 14% for operating expenses and only 11% for investment). And here the hope that I do is to spend the best money together, quoted today at the hearing with the High Representative Federica Mogherini, will soon become a reality. In conclusion, Madam President, I certainly welcome the choices and assessments contained in the document transmitted, for its strategic and military value, but even more so for the importance of the Italian commitment to the stabilisation of fragile areas. [[Applause from the Aut Group (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT) - PSI-MAIE]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-780.ana.u68	Senator Gasparri is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-780.ana.u69	Madam President, representatives of the Government, Forza Italia has traditionally voted in favour, regardless of its majority position or opposition, of the conduct of military missions. We have also contributed to the adoption of a law, which we apply for the first time, for an action that gives a broader temporal scope and that therefore avoids the continuous recourse to decrees-laws and that allows in the classrooms, as is happening today in the House and the Senate, an examination of the programs and a vote that reaffirms the Italian commitment. I would like, of course, to express our parliamentary group's gratitude to our armed forces, to the women and men who throughout the world (because the commitments are considerable in the most diverse locations) contribute to operations aimed at guaranteeing peace and the growth of the rights of peoples. We think that in the area of former Yugoslavia the Italian side has long helped to consolidate democratic institutions, which are still under way, but certainly well initiated. Elsewhere, in Afghanistan and in other countries, the path of consolidation of democratic institutions is still difficult. In confirming therefore a vote in favour, I want to use these few minutes to urge certain commitments, as we do with the agenda that we have presented, but also with the action we have taken in the Commission, together with the leader Alicata who will then speak in an explanation of vote and with the other colleagues, with the amendments to the resolution. In this regard, I would like to thank the rapporteurs, Mr Vattuone and Mr Sangalli, for, apart from the different memberships, there is a constant debate and discussion on these and other issues in the Commission. We insist, as Minister Pinotti and the foreign representatives, Deputy Minister Giro and Undersecretary Rossi know, on the story of Libya, which is central to Italian history and, I dare say, Mediterranean. Geography condemns Italy to an interaction, even if in different eras the projection was of a different nature (and I refer to ancient Rome and not only to the history of the twentieth century, which has also been characterized by a strong interaction). Moreover, even in recent times, the Obama administration in Libya has caused dramatic trouble; I address those who criticize Trump: think of the disasters that the Clinton and Obama couple have done with that wrong war in Libya. [[Applause from Senators Alicata and Rizzotti.]] I always say that the West erred in wars and peace: it made peace when perhaps it was necessary to use force and made wars when the Realpolitik was needed. Today, Operation Eunavfor Med is the legacy of that situation. We have tabled an agenda which we hope will be accepted. There was a request not to repeat on the agenda the request for the third stage of Eunavfor Med, because it is already contained in the general resolution: very well; there is also our Parent Company here and we can delete that sentence which is incorporated in the resolution. But our agenda, Minister Pinotti, representatives of the Government, also draws attention to the ambiguity that Frontex (not our Group) has highlighted in the action of non-governmental organisations. You will ask us what this has to do with military missions: it has to do with it, because we engage the Navy and the Coast Guard in the Mediterranean. The request for assistance is made either directly to the Italian Coast Guard, which is then forced to apply the Hamburg Convention and to help, or even directly to non-governmental organizations. Frontex denounced this misuse of organisations that seem almost to favour these interventions. Not later than this morning, President Paolo Romani, speaking in the Assembly in the presence of the President of the Council, said that these were not even hulls anymore, but canoes that have to make a few miles and that are collected in Libyan territorial waters. All this is also downloaded on the Italian military structures, which must provide for the first reception, and on the Forces of Order. Madam President, I do not yet have the parliamentary acts before me, but just now the police chief Gabrielli, in today's hearing at the Extraordinary Commission for the Protection and Promotion of Human Rights, made some remarks on the subject of minors. As you can see, colleagues, these are all related issues: military missions, action in the Mediterranean, legislation on immigration, reception. In this regard, one wondered how one can distinguish between a minor and a non-minor, and I remember that Senator Rizzotti, days ago, when we found ourselves discussing the presumption of a minor age in the absence of an investigation, had proposed that an x-ray of the ulna should be done in order to have a certainty. So, a heavy commitment is being made to the armed forces. I still remember that the then minister of the government Dini, Corcione (who had also been a military summit), had to say that our Armed Forces had worked more with the ladles than with the guns and said it to the pride of Armed Forces that, during the many missions that have developed since the post-war period, they helped populations, fed meals and cured people. We have recently decided to open a military hospital in Libya, which is guarded by soldiers and military, but which obviously treats people. So far, thanks to our wisdom and the competence of our military health and all the military, worthwhile action is being carried out in dangerous areas. However, we must also address the problem of this continuous transport and the famous third phase. I also know that the Libyan Government - which we support, in line with the decisions of the UN - is there that is shaky and then one day arrives Haftar and one day can arrive another subject; but we urge a strong commitment - and we are pleased that the resolution has shared it - today that we are talking and that the Minister of the Interior has also carried out a mission in Libya. One might wonder that it was the Minister of the Interior and not the Minister of Foreign Affairs who went to Libya, but perhaps it is better that the Minister of the Interior (the Minister of Defence, then, goes there according to his competence). However, I do not want to open up personal polemics, but we need to understand whether this third phase will take place. [[Applause from Senator Rizzotti]] I say this with respect, even to Admiral Credendino: we must also think about the security of our country, in addition to the humanitarian aspects and those related to rights. Therefore, our vote in favour of the missions does not exempt us from very strong criticism of the difficulty of passing, for example, to the third phase of Eunavfor Med and also to the sometimes improper use of our Armed Forces. It was I who mentioned the ladles and none of us is certainly war-torn, but the security of the country is also an important problem. In other measures that we will discuss in a few days we are talking about detention centers with 1,500 seats. If only the other day in Palermo 1,000 people have landed and 2,000 land in a few days, we do not understand those who get angry because the Minister of the Interior wants to create centers with 1,500 seats. When we come to examine that measure, which is currently being examined by the House of Deputies, we will criticize it because perhaps there are few places for detention and identification. Therefore, with regard to the Italian military missions - without mentioning the others, which we subscribe, from the distant Asian lands, to Africa, to the Middle East - we believe that the theme of the Mediterranean is central. Today, of course, this was also discussed in a hearing held in front of the relevant Joint Commissions, where, in my opinion, the inadequacy of European policy and also of the Italian High Representative has emerged (but this is my personal opinion). We should insist on immigration issues and today the Council of Europe has also spoken critically on these issues, while earlier I mentioned the Chief of Police. There is therefore an awareness of a problem, which cannot be blamed on the daily activity of our armed forces. Moreover, in 2017 things started badly, with 15,000 landings in the first weeks, with a 75% increase: issued the decree-laws, made the media breakthrough, changed the Minister of the Interior, the landings increased and the problems passed to the mayors. If then, as happened in the province of Benevento, to block the influx of presumed asylants or clandestine is a mayor of the PD, the influx can be blocked; if instead to do so is a mayor that is not of the PD, it is spoken of racism or you do the trials if you use the term "clandestine." [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII]] I would also like to tell you that the Court of Justice of the European Union, according to a report published today in various newspapers, has rejected the indiscriminate practice of asylum, stressing that the Member States of Europe are not obliged, under EU law, to grant a humanitarian visa to persons who intend to go to their territory with the intention of seeking asylum, but remain free to do so on the basis of national law. The issue of asylum and illegal immigrants shows an excessive Italian generosity, which costs 4 billion euros, as the Government has said. I do not want to insist with all the Italians who are uncomfortable and those who come to make propaganda in Italy. Starbucks arrives and has to plant the banana trees in Piazza del Duomo and says he will hire 350 immigrants: we have reached racism against Italians. Let them hire some Italians in the heart of Milan, as well as foreigners. [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII]] We have no discrimination, but we would not want them to be harmed by some unemployed Italian who could also go to work in a multinational food company. If the Court of Justice of the European Union says the things we have heard today on a sensitive subject, if the perplexities of the Council of Europe, the Head of Police and others, the Government's lords, emerge, we cannot fail to make a severe reflection with all the complexities of the Libyan scenario because of its delicacy, which we know to the point that we hope that Copasir no longer has Mr Tofalo going around with those who are in jail for the trafficking of arms with Libya. We have a sense of the institutions that others do not have. We therefore support the use of the armed forces and note that the resolution has taken account of the debate in the Commission. We hope that our agenda, without prejudice to the part taken up in the resolution, will be accepted because it talks about the very sensitive issue of the misuse of non-governmental organisations, which are worthy if they do their work and problems if they do anything else. Ours is therefore a readiness to the Armed Forces, but it is also a stimulus to a much more careful and severe policy on the part of the Government. [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-780.ana.u70	Senator Verducci is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-780.ana.u71	Madam President, colleagues, members of the Government, Minister Pinotti, the act we are about to approve concerns Italian participation in international missions for the next year and this is the main measure with which our country contributes to peace, international security - I want to tell all colleagues - and also to the security of all Italians. I want to thank the Government for the effort of these years and for the work done in these classrooms to accompany this important measure. There is a polar star that guides our strategic choices and also our foreign and defence policy: it is the multilateralist, pro-European vision, respect for law, international legality, the awareness that no crisis can be resolved with the only military instrument and, therefore, the conception of missions not as military actions aimed at themselves, but as an instrument to support the processes of social and civil stabilisation. This is a fundamental part of the efforts of our Government and our Parliament. We are, in fact, the main contributors among the Western countries of quotas for UN missions, for the European Union's missions. Italy is active in more than 40 missions with 7,459 women and men of the Armed Forces, 167 women and men of the police forces, with thousands of co-operatives and civil workers to whom we thank because they often work in very difficult conditions for our security. [[Applause from the PD Group]] They do not deserve the misplaced polemics to which very often those who should defend them let themselves go. The two rapporteurs, Senators Vattuone and Sangalli, and a number of colleagues have highlighted the fundamental point of the debate that we are discussing today in this Chamber: we are discussing international missions with regard to the new framework law for the first time. I would also like to emphasise this aspect not only because it is a new law and a new procedure, but because this new procedure, which in its Article 1 refers (not by chance) to Article 11 of the Constitution and to respect for international law, allows Parliament to have a stronger role in its control of the Government in such an important area. In the past there was a lack of stable regulatory references. We have had a variety of paths: missions authorized by the Commissions, missions authorised by the House, missions authorised after the departure - that is, after the departure - and also missions, unfortunately, which were not the subject of debate and vote by Parliament. But today things change, and with the framework law the Government intervenes - as has already been mentioned - with two different procedures, depending on whether it is the authorisation of new missions or the extension of existing missions. And Parliament's opinion - this is a fundamental point - also on the financial aspects: Parliament can provide for a proper parliamentary session on missions, along the lines of what is taking place for the examination of public finance documents, which may be the occasion for a high-level reflection on the broad lines of our foreign policy. This is the case, Madam President, because international missions are a fundamental and qualifying part of our foreign policy. It is with international missions that our country has improved its international image, because it has made substantial contributions to stabilisation processes in many parts of the world and also because over the years it has established an Italian model of peace keeping, starting from the mission to Lebanon in 1982 and then with missions to Albania, Somalia, Mozambique, up to the most recent tests. There is an Italian trait to be claimed, which to a large extent derives also from the demands of Parliament, which combines the military capabilities with a specific operational mode characterized not only by impartiality towards the parties, but also and above all by attention and sensitivity to the needs of the civilian population, to the humanitarian aspects, to the rights in particular of women and children. And I would like to mention this here, Madam Minister, not only because 8 March is a symbolic date for women and our civil achievements, but also because all this puts our commitment in the wake of UN Security Council Resolution 1325 of 2000 on the theme "Women, peace and security", referred significantly to in Article 1 of Law No 145 of 2016. Today, we can stress that the increase in funding for humanitarian cooperation interventions and support for peace and stabilisation processes is crucial: there are funds that reach EUR 295 million and that include qualifying interventions in areas that are essential to us. I would like to mention Tunisia, Libya, Syria and countries even more interested in the assistance of refugees in the Mediterranean area such as Lebanon and Jordan. They are therefore countries that, in various ways, are involved in the current emergencies in the Mediterranean - to this I want to dedicate my intervention above all - and can contribute, through targeted aid, to ensure greater stability in that area and, therefore, to our country. The increase in resources arises in the more general direction of an increase than in recent years of the funds for development cooperation; a commitment that will continue in the near future also thanks to the provisions of the new law of sector, in the conviction that, in order to prevent new emergencies and face possible and new humanitarian crises even in the area closest to us, it is indispensable to make use of all the existing instruments of cooperation, in order to eradicate those conditions of poverty and insecurity that grip many countries from which migratory flows originate. These are fundamental reasons not only for solidarity and humanity, but also for political and economic opportunities, as well as the growing need for security, because we know that very often instability and insecurity are linked to migratory dynamics out of control. I would like to recall our country's commitment to support and define European and international initiatives, to strengthen the European Emergency Fund for stability and the fight against the root causes of irregular migration and the phenomenon of displaced persons in Africa, established by the Valletta Summit in November 2015. They are instruments that positively connote the action that our country is doing on an international level. Madam President, our country's efforts in recent years have been directed at making European Union partners first and foremost aware that the phenomenon of immigration does not only concern the first port countries and must be addressed together with new instruments which, alongside the security dimension, include cooperation with countries of origin and transit. Let me say - as President Gentiloni Silveri said this morning - that this will happen even more so at a time as important as the present one, since in a few days we will be celebrating the 60th anniversary of the signing of the Treaties of Rome. This process of integration will find an even greater impetus in the construction of European defence and common migration policies and in the strengthening of a common foreign policy. I conclude, Madam President, by stressing the merits of the action taken in recent years, but also by noting that today we are experiencing a moment of great difficulty, characterized by many crises, outbreaks of instability and threats, starting with that of international terrorism and the risk of Daesh's expansion. There is one particular mission that confronts him. I am thinking of our commitment to Iraqi Kurdistan, our military and civilian presence, the training of the peshmerga forces and the setting up of actions for the reconstruction of the Mosul dam. These are interventions of absolute geopolitical importance in a framework where uncertainties are enormous, starting from what scholars call the international distribution of power, the loss of orientation of American leadership and often traumatic uncertainty also at regional level. Here there is also the role of Italy, called to act in such a difficult context, keeping together the guarantee of respect for commitments already made in the past and the need to face up to the new scenarios that are emerging. In this sense, our commitment must be ever greater and redirected towards the policies and interests of the Mediterranean, which - as we know - is the place where the main risks to our stability and security of the European Union come from. But it is also the place where we can resolve the Braudel dilemma and make the Mediterranean the place no longer of the clash between peoples, but that of the encounter of civilizations to help heal one of the most dangerous fractures for peace and security ours and for future generations. [[Applause from the PD and Aut groups (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT) - PSI-MAIE.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-780.ana.u72	The debate is closed. I note that the text of the resolution adopted by the Commissions meeting 3a and 4a have been presented with agendas from G1 to G9, the texts of which are distributed. I call the rapporteur, Senator Vattuone.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-780.ana.u73	Madam President, I shall leave it to Mr Sangalli to reply.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-780.ana.u74	I call the rapporteur, Senator Sangalli.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-780.ana.u75	Madam President, I speak very quickly. We are going to vote on a document which is the result of a reform. The framework law on international missions is, in fact, a reform that allows us to put together the strategy, vision and objectives with which it declines. Our strategy - we said it before and it is useless to go back on it - is part of a multilateral action, in the interest that our country has, which is a great country, so that crisis situations stabilize... [[Brusio.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-780.ana.u76	Colleagues, please lower your voice.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-780.ana.u77	Mr Sangalli, rapporteur. As I said, it is our interest that crisis situations do not reverberate in a serious and dramatic way on our country and in Europe. The most important thing I want to say is that, after all, we must note that our missions always take place within the framework of Article 11 of the Constitution, with the aim not to bring war but to build the conditions of peace. These are missions that prevent situations - God forbid - of terrorism and attack in our country. They are missions that have always qualified our country for the level of professionalism with which they take place. And for this we must be grateful to the women and men of our armed and police forces, engaged in such a professional and so human way, to the extent that everyone recognizes that ours are military missions with a strong content of peace. Making a list of missions saying that they are military missions and distinguish themselves from cooperation and humanitarian actions is therefore an operation frankly not responsive to reality. Our missions correspond to a specific address of our country and to the international bodies in which we want to stay. We want to stay in the United Nations. We want to remain in the European Union. We want to stay in NATO. We want to remain in the civil context in which our democracy has matured. That's all. These missions fit exactly into this. To think that our country can save money, not taking care of the world, but taking care only of itself, is a very short-sighted vision and certainly does not do the interests of that Italian people to whom we appeal. I say this because the content of this reform is evident in the fact that in a single document we put together the strategy, actions and objectives to be pursued in a clear and responsible way towards our fellow citizens, our Armed Forces and in the interest of our country. Allow me, Mr President, to thank very warmly the members of the Defence and Foreign Affairs Committees, with whom a very intense and at the same time very competent discussion took place. The story of the missions has really been dragging for years, will drag and will project into the future for the international action of our country. On this subject there is a level of collaboration and discussion that would be useful also for many other topics. I would also like to thank the officials of the Commissions, those who participated in the drafting of the documents, the Government and all the collaborators who helped the Ministers and the Undersecretaries. We are doing a good job in the interests of Italy in the interests not only of peace, which is already very much, but also of the role of Italy in the context of international peace. [[Applause from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-780.ana.u78	I call on the Minister for Defence, Senator Pinotti, to speak on the resolution already adopted by the Commissions meeting 3a and 4a and on the agenda presented.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-780.ana.u79	Madam President, I will make a few comments in response to the debate that has just taken place and then the Deputy Minister, Mr Giro, will give his views on the resolutions that have been tabled. We've divided our work, Mr. President. It is a great pleasure for me to be here today, for the first time since I have followed international missions, to discuss them and to approve them no longer by urgent decree, but by means of a framework law which allows for a broad decision-making process with an important role for Parliament. This is a cause for satisfaction, because it is the most important act that we examine in terms of the defence, security and cooperation of our country. Therefore, to inhibit it with an improper instrument such as the urgent decree also means to degrade it or in any case to make it less strong. I believe that a broad responsibility of all the parliamentary forces that can express themselves, of course together with the Commission, in order to make proposals gives greater strength to the action of our country and also stronger support to our military engaged in missions, who know that the debate has had the opportunity to be thorough, careful and has considered all the different aspects. The framework law on international missions began to be discussed about ten years ago. Finally, during this parliamentary term, an important reform for the world of defence and cooperation has come to pass. I thank you, therefore, for the work you have done that has been very thorough - as the rapporteur, Mr Sangalli, said - and also because, today discussing the different missions, some of which are mentioned and resumed in the various interventions, we are actually discussing the security of the country, that is, an overall plan that is then declined in a series of missions. We intervene outside the national territory in crisis areas to prevent threats and reduce risks, because the Defense must do this. And we want to keep away from the threats that could reach us, and we must also do our part for a more peaceful and just world. Security has a cost, it is true - Senator Santangelo has listed the costs of the different missions, which are rightly reported - but it is a very precious asset and we cannot imagine that Italy should not do its part in order to reach a safer and more stable world. As you recalled, the measure is important because it decides of missions that can involve a maximum number of 7.459 military members of the Armed Forces and 167 units from the police forces, employed in more than 40 missions in 22 countries. Of these soldiers, 200 are women and to them today, March 8, our wish and sympathy go. [[Applause from the PD, Aut (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT) and PSI-MAIE groups) and AP (Ncd-CpE)]] The cornerstones of our commitment have been remembered in many qualified speeches that I have heard. We certainly have polar stars, including multilateralism and international legitimacy. On the basis of these polar stars, we are part of international organisations such as the UN, NATO and the European Union not only as spectators, but also as responsible actors. We are, among the nations of the Western world, often the first and in any case among the first contributors to the UN missions. We are the first contributors to European missions and we are among the first contributors to NATO missions. This means that Italy does its part, does it competently and carefully, but that depends on a choice. We think that, for the security of the world, we must act in a multipolar context and there are no other shortcuts. In this we are protagonists, not subordinates. With regard to the missions and some of our choices, you have also noted that we are facing a situation of great instability in the Mediterranean area, in a geographical arc ranging from the Sahel to the Middle East to Afghanistan and, from this point of view, we have also worked very hard to combat ISIS. We continue to be present in the Balkan Region and you have also discussed the reasons. At this moment, in addition to a situation of fragility that continues to persist, we must look at the issue of foreign fighters with extreme attention. Our presence in such places can therefore also concern our security. We have also discussed the fact that we are in solidarity and have given our willingness to be present, in fact with a very limited contingent, also in the mission in Latvia, to respond to a need for reassurance. But we have done so in the context of a dialectical exchange with our allies within NATO in which Italy's position has always been to recall the importance of dialogue with Russia; a dialogue that is resumed today because we think Russia's involvement in resolving the situation of instability in the world is fundamental. Therefore, our solidarity becomes a way to break down decisions that could have been different, with even more aggressive postures or movements of commands that we have not allowed because we believe should be sent a message not of closure, but of openness, despite the attention that must be given to the concerns of the allies, to a new dialogue and to a new availability. It is true that the missions are many, that in some there are few units and this means being part of an international community in which however the Italian presence is required, because qualified by specialists. However, the most substantial missions, those in which we are engaged in a particularly significant number, are just a few. It is true that the UNIFIL mission in Lebanon has existed for a long time, but in the current configuration it has existed since 2006. You know, in fact, that we went to Lebanon on an Italian push with a mission that became international to end a conflict that arose between that country and Israel. The UNIFIL mission is, therefore, older, but with this posture and with these objectives it is more recent. You have spoken about Kosovo and Afghanistan, where, as Senator Pegorer said, there is a situation that needs to be monitored. In addition to the complexity that Afghanistan has continued to maintain, the risk of ISIS infiltration has been accurately recorded and we cannot allow a new scenario to be opened up on a new territory that can become prey to bloody terrorism. In addition, you have discussed missions in the Mediterranean and also in the resolution there are indications. What is called the Safe Sea is a maritime safety mission. It is true that ships take some time to move and cannot be at the side of each vessel. But to think that our Navy doesn't intervene seems to me to be inconvenient with respect to the abilities of our sailors. Two weeks ago, east of Misrata, the Navy ships intervened with a helicopter to help four or five vessels because a hull was approaching at speed and interfered. From this point of view it can happen that they are not present everywhere, because the ships are not like the planes and they need more time to move. From this point of view I assure you, however - and not because there is this Government, but because the Navy and the Italian forces are of great quality - that they are able to intervene and do their work very well. The choice made with great determination by this Government is to be very present in the fight against ISIS: it is a choice to have the second contingent in Iraq, because we believe that stopping the Caliphate is an obligation for everyone, and not only for the risks that come to us, but for the very idea of humanity. I am sorry that Senator De Pin is not present now, who represented the action of our military as if it were of war, recalling Article 11 of the Constitution, as if these missions were not within the perimeter of what it establishes. Our soldiers in Iraq are not making war: they are training those peshmerga and those Iraqi soldiers who are currently taking Mosul, the city (along with the others who have been liberated) where the children have been kidnapped and forced to become murderers and where thousands and thousands of girls have been enslaved in terrible conditions and have seen unspeakable violence. Our military is engaged in training with such a commitment that they have even trained 25 percent of Iraqi trained people. To remove ISIS from Mosul is not to make war: it is to remove war from those territories; it is to allow them to have peace and a future [[Applause from the PD, AP (Ncd-CpE) and Aut (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT) and PSI-MAIE Groups]] Otherwise we tell the Italians things that don't exist. Then you may disagree: I heard the senator say that NATO must be abolished. This is part of the political ideas on which everyone can carry out their own considerations. But we must not give a wrong and different representation of what our military do. At this moment there is no combat mission; it is not said that it did not exist in the past, but at this moment all missions are of training and support. And I'm saying that because otherwise we're discussing something that doesn't exist. I also thank Senator Battista for remembering the hospital in Libya - almost 4,000 people have been treated there, as Senator Gasparri said - where he works military personnel, because in that country there was a need to have a certainty of security. This is certainly an additional element of readiness to Libya that wants to open interlocutions. Even the signing of an agreement, made by President Gentiloni Silveri with President al-Sarraj, I believe has been facilitated by actions obviously considered friendly. We are, in fact, talking about treating the wounded and, therefore, helping the people in a precise strategy, with all the complexities of Libya mentioned in the interventions - and on which I do not go into, because we have properly talked about them in the Commission - that are present and have repercussions on our country as well. However, there is a work that is done carefully. You have discussed the new missions: there is a new mission with three units of police forces in Libya; the mission in Latvia and two missions of air policing, that is, missions that, in rotation, NATO countries that have an air defense like Italy do for other countries that do not have them (in this case in Bulgaria and Iceland). You have also rightly mentioned the European Union and NATO. As far as NATO is concerned, we must pay great attention to the fact that a mission such as Active Endeavour, which was born for the protection of terrorism after the Afghan crisis, becomes Sea Guardian and moves on a mission of maritime security and against terrorism against ISIS. It is an Italian request - we have made it - and there has been an answer in this regard. Just as an Italian request was that of NATO to look not only to the East, but also to the risks present in the South. The birth in Naples of the hub for the Mediterranean, for the South, is a response to issues that Italy has posed. So we are supportive, but we want solidarity and we are still getting answers. On the European Union and on Europe you have done well to underline the step forward that has been taken with the command for non-executive missions. You know that Italy has always pushed a lot on this. We will work both in the programme that the High Representative has presented and with our allies, with which we can also go to give new speeds that do not want to be exclusive, but they want to speed up the construction of a Europe of defence, which we have been talking about for a long time but which must actually take place now. I thank you again for all the work you have done. I think that Parliament has done a very good job. I thank the rapporteurs and all those who have spoken. Allow me, however, to conclude by thanking our military. [[Applause from the PD, AP (Ncd-CpE), Aut (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT) - PSI-MAIE) and FI-PdL XVII and Senator Longo Eva]] I must say that our military, in the different theatres, and therefore with different populations and cultures, demonstrate great capacity for integration, for doing their work as very great professionals - because they are - but at the same time with a humanity, an ability to come into harmony with values, populations and needs so that in every place where I go the authorities and the people thank us. I was at the ceremony in which the certificates of participation - let's call them - of the formation of the Libyan Coast Guard were delivered. I must say that it was a very strong moment when the commander of the ship explained to me that at the beginning there could be some mistrust but then, beyond the training course, the fact of having created with the military a whole and of not having relegated anyone far away, in a distant place, has created a human solidarity that, with respect to the possibility of creating security ties in Libya, is certainly a good viatico. [[Applause from the PD, AP (Ncd-CpE) and Aut (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT) and PSI-MAIE Groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-780.ana.u80	I would ask the Deputy Minister for Foreign Affairs and International Cooperation, Senator Giro, to give an opinion on the resolution and the agenda presented.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-780.ana.u81	I am in favour of this resolution. I am against the G1, G2, G3, G4, G5 and G6 agendas. With regard to the G6 agenda, which concerns development cooperation, I can say that cooperation in support of the peace and stabilisation processes already includes resources to be allocated in cooperation activities, including in Iraq. SANTANGELO (M5S). Liar! Just say no. What are you talking about? PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator Santangelo, let me finish. Go ahead, Deputy Minister Giro. SANTANGELO (M5S). Where is it written? In what documents? BUEMI (Aut (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT)-PSI-MAIE)). Shut up! SANTANGELO (M5S). Read instead of talking! (To Senator Buemi's address.) AIROLA (M5S). Buemi, this is the fourth time you've stopped! PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator Buemi, please. Go ahead, Deputy Minister. Mr Giro, Deputy Minister for Foreign Affairs and International Cooperation. On the G7 agenda, I am in favour, provided that the following rewording is accepted, replacing the commitment with the following words: "to take every possible initiative in international bodies so that, where relevant, the objectives of protecting the civilian population are explicitly included in the mandates of international missions." On the G8 agenda, I am in favour, provided that the following rewording is accepted: the first two lines of the commitment are removed (from "to activate every initiative" until "Eunavfor Med" which are, among other things, a repetition of what is written in the premise) and the word "guarantee" is replaced by the word "favour." On the G9 agenda, I am in favour, provided that the following rewording is accepted, replacing the words 'which involve more' with the other 'in order to identify ways of involving it.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-780.ana.u82	Do the rapporteurs agree with the views of the Government? Mr Sangalli, rapporteur. Yes, Madam President. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Before we proceed to the vote, I would remind you that the agendas will be put to the vote after the resolution of the joint committees.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-780.ana.u83	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-780.ana.u84	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-780.ana.u85	Tarquinio (CoR). Madam President, I would like to say with satisfaction that we have voted in favour, convincedly and always, because there is little to joke about international missions, but we must be serious and compact... [[Brusio]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-780.ana.u86	Colleagues, if we don't move forward, the session is getting longer. Senators Marinello and Senator Gualdani, please be quiet.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-780.ana.u87	Please, Senator Tarquinio. Tarquinio (CoR). ... for the role of Italy in Europe and in the world and as much as the country represents. [[Brusio]] Unfortunately, Madam President, the serious arguments of most of the Senate are not relevant. When we talk about something more material and financial, they are all careful. That's the real thing.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-780.ana.u88	Ask your Group for the courtesy of being silent, Senator Tarquinio.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-780.ana.u89	Tarquinio (CoR). One thing, however, I would like to reproach the Minister. Mrs. Minister, there are many Iraqi slave girls, but there are also many Iraqi boys beheaded and killed by thousands. Everyone pays a price there, and not just women. If we talk like this, we create useless and dangerous demagogy. That's something I've been telling you since I heard it. It's fair to say poor girls, but not only in Iraq. But it is equally fair to say poor boys, slaughtered and beheaded thousands by a furious Islam. Madam Minister, let us be careful: words often weigh like boulders in a context in which demagogy is winning over reality and especially on these issues, in which we finally have a law, for which I give credit to the Government. Before we went on, we ran after the urgent decree and often our military had no cover. Often they did not even know the rules of engagement and I hope that they are now clear, in the face of what they risk. I hope that now our soldiers will have the opportunity to defend themselves really - we have already talked about it once - without waiting to be hit in the head before they can react, i.e. after they have died. That's the real thing. In the war zones where our soldiers operate they have always distinguished themselves - as you said and as we have said several times - for the ethics and humanity they have always demonstrated, over the decades. Even during the periods of occupation of some countries on our part, the works of humanity of our military have been more than anything else, because Italians have always had within humanity and Christian charity, unlike other peoples. It is true that one billion and 132 million euros are spent, but they are for important and decisive interventions. In Iraq, after the United States, the most committed contingent is that of Italy, as well as in Lebanon and many other countries. Every now and then I have a question: how do the Germans cooperate in all this? We, poor Italians, are always ready for anything, in every part of the world, even though we are not as rich as them. The Germans speak a lot, but they work very badly and know how to protect their interests. And we must protect the interests of peace, but we must also be able to protect our interests in relation to terrorism and also in relation to economic problems. We welcome the commitment in the countries of the Middle East, Lebanon and Libya which, as far as I am concerned, should be expanded. Certainly the picture must be clear, even with Haftar, otherwise what do we do? Do we sign the agreements and increase the landings? When are we going to clear up Eunavfor Med's problem? How does that mission come about? You, Mrs. Minister, know this: it was born to arrest boatmen and seize hulls and means. In fact, we do nothing but rescue and migrants are brought to Italy: this happens. But can we seriously talk to our partners about this, about a mission in which we employ ships, aircraft and 530 men? Or do we just take people and bring them here? It is a mission that is born for this. Even the ships of Emergency, all they do is take migrants and bring them to us. This is not possible. We have to operate and we are working in Libya for health, for everything. We must be present and we are present everywhere, in Afghanistan, and wherever possible. The interventions of the Italian Armed Forces are first and foremost humanitarian and peace. We never went to shoot anyone. If anything, we defend ourselves against who wants to shoot us. We went to bring our civilization, our ability to train police forces, coast guard forces, military forces in general. We went to defend important infrastructure, like dams. That's what we do. It does not appear that the Italian Armed Forces participate in the attacks, absolutely. Often, however, this too may become necessary, in order to defend ourselves or to defend entire populations that risk being exterminated. We have to be ready for this. Welcome to this law. Welcome to the practice that wants to be discussed in the Chambers. Our vote is in favour, but I hope that more and more the role of this Government, of the governments in general and of the Italian Parliament, will be of awareness of what Italy is doing and what it can still do, even to defend itself. Space in the Mediterranean is vital to us; our intervention and presence in those regions are vital to block terrorism and uncontrolled immigration and to avoid further tragedies in those countries, already massacred and which continue to be massacred. This is humanity. This is Christendom. So let us welcome what we have always done, but let us try to further improve our equipment. As far as I am concerned, even if there were an increase in committed forces, I would still vote in favour, because I know that we are going not to occupy or murder someone, but to defend people and, in some cases, to defend economic interests, also against terrorism that is brought to Italy and to Europe. What many European countries often ignore is that the frontier is us and we are the first to be exposed. Therefore we must also be clear with our partners, otherwise some commitments can also be reviewed, thinking only of ourselves. A bit of patriotic love is a bit of Italian identity are necessary and indispensable. These occasions mark a moment of unity and I hope that this unity, as Senator Sangalli said, will also be on other topics, but on these issues it is indispensable. The first real commitment must come from a government open to confrontation and also to unpopular decisions, but necessary. Otherwise, if you are not able to take unpopular decisions on issues like this, you are not a Government and you are not a ruling class: this is the truth. To think to always indulge everything and everyone is the denial of being Government and ruling class. From this point of view, let us welcome this document, on which we shall vote in favour, for an ever-increasing commitment to defending our armed forces and our Christian, humanitarian and, if I may, economic interests. That's the real thing. We must tell our partners, starting with Germany, that everyone has to cooperate. We are in the world: they were there too, not only with their multinationals. They always talk, but they give very little to others. I am not an anti-German, I take note of a totally unacceptable arrogance. We also take our responsibilities within NATO, unlike the others. If we're talking about common defense, we're dreaming. The French have their own force de frappe, their own selfishness. We, within a European design, have to imagine thinking about ourselves too, because this world will be increasingly fibrillating. We must not attack anyone, but first we must defend ourselves and we must certainly have motivated, well-paid armed forces, with weapons as modern as possible, not to offend, but to defend and to bring peace everywhere, unlike others. That's my wish. Today's is a moment of synthesis and we can see it: the vast majority of the Senate will vote in favour. I hope that the government's action will become more and more concrete than this. This is the real fact and I hope that this will become a good Viatico, in a country exhausted by a thousand emergencies. [[Applause from the CoR, FI-PdL XVII and LAG groups (GS, PpI, M, Id, E-E, MPL, RI).]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-780.ana.u90	On behalf of the Assembly, I greet the teachers and students of the Istituto comprensivo "Giovanni Pascoli" in Cormòns, in the province of Gorizia, who are attending our work. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-780.ana.u91	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-780.ana.u92	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-780.ana.u93	DIVINE (LN-Aut). Madam President, Madam Minister, we have listened and also appreciated your speech, but it seemed more directed to reassure your majority, than Parliament and the opposition. We have no hesitation in authorizing our Government to protect and defend the interests and security of our country. If we need the use of force and weapons, the Army has this function and if international terrorism is a threat to our country, our country has not only the right, but the duty to protect its population. We are faced with a misunderstanding that we have been dragging for years. Military missions were not born with central, right or left governments. When the first Berlusconi governments authorized the first missions, they were called military missions to protect certain areas or geographical areas. The next first Prodi government, which overlapped with that Berlusconi, did not change anything at all on the merits but, perhaps out of modesty, changed its name, so much so that they are no longer called military missions, but peace missions. In fact, having opposed the war, military and "aggressive" part, one could not decide to do in the same way a necessary thing, which had previously been criticized, but it was necessary at least to change the form. So let's drop this curtain and this false hypocrisy: the interests of the country call our defense system to protect the interests of the country. That's it. We have illustrated our criticisms. We are a little scattered, because over 40 missions produce a pulverization of presences with an important burden to protect, coordinate and connect functionally. We operate in a context where, fortunately, the new American administration has completely changed course, leaving us a little' discovered because it says that they will spend much less than they did until yesterday for us. It is not good for us, but on the other hand it is good that the Obama administration's policy is over, which wanted to give freedom to the peoples of North Africa by removing dictators with bombs and left us, right in front of our home, total chaos. Beyond the not in my backyard, it is right in front of our garden that the biggest confusion has been created. On the collaboration we would have liked to have talked about avoiding continuing with absurd sanctions, always adopted under pressure from the old American administration, against the Russian Federation, of which we need the support to fight terrorism, which is perhaps the first threat to the whole West and we are in the middle of the West and in the middle of the Mediterranean, which is the most subject area and main objective of Daesh, ISIS and collateral acronyms. On the issue of Libya, we must demand that our allies, including within NATO, tell us where they stand. It is useless for governments and the international community to establish that the Government of Serraj will be the Government to support: we remember that Serraj, if not escorted, cannot even stop in Tripoli and must take refuge on a ship moored at the bottom, outside the port of Tripoli. Therefore, the situation is far from stable, but we know that France and other NATO allies on the stand maintain relations with the other component, the unacknowledged government of Tobruk. A little clarity on this issue will have to be done. Common security and defence policies require agreements, which mean renunciation for some states of their defence industries, which we know how important they are for Italy and for other countries, so they are only statements that are difficult to achieve. Finally, we are also convinced that we should start the third phase of EUNAVFOR Med, which would really stop trafficking in human beings. Dismantling traffickers' boats is now not enough, however, because those boats are boats to lose, i.e. they pay with the ticket paid by a couple of people, even if they are used to carry hundreds at a time, and they are already taken for granted their loss. The problem is not to continue to pass the message that just put a few liters of gasoline because, just outside the territorial waters, we do not go to assist those who are in difficulty in the Strait of Sicily (we do not even frequent it, the Strait of Sicily, which is located between the most north of Tunisia and Sicily) but we go perpendicularly towards the Gulf of Libya and do far more than a few miles, will be done between 80 and 120 miles. The signal you give is: start because you just have to send an SOS and we'll pick you up. As a North League we are not opposed to the continuation of our military missions, but, given our limited economic availability, we would like more effectiveness and less dispersion. That is why we shall abstain in the resolution. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-780.ana.u94	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-780.ana.u95	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-780.ana.u96	GIOVANARDI (GAL (GS, PPI, M, Id, E-E, MPL, RI)). Madam President, in confirming the traditional position in favour of issues relating to the international policy of the Armed Forces, I would like to raise a very sensitive issue, taking advantage of this opportunity. I am of course addressing the Presidency and the Government. Fifteen days ago we read a news that was absolutely favorable and welcome for me: after years of trial, General Stano, who commanded the brigade Sassari in Nassirya, had been acquitted of all charges against him of impiety and negligence for the attack that had cost the lives of so many Italian soldiers, who of course go all our solidarity and whose families rightly - this is out of the question - have been compensated for the sacrifice they suffered. [[Applause from the LAG Group (GS, PPI, M, Id, E-E, MPL, RI)]] To me it seemed positive that that general commander, who was there for twenty days, not only did he not end up in court-martial, but that a court had acquitted him with a sentence passed to trial on the charge of malice and negligence. Unfortunately, ten days later, the same general, at the request of the civil party, was sentenced in cassation (which postponed on appeal for the quantum) to pay EUR 80,000 of expenses and to personally compensate the family members for a figure that I imagine will be millions of euros. The story of Ustica has therefore been repeated, in which a criminal court, after years of trial, writes that the generals are absolutely innocent, that the aerial battle is invented, that there is no missile and that they are science fiction things and an aggregate honorary judge, instead, writes in a civil sentence that according to him it was a missile. So, in that case, we have a civil sentence in cassation that says exactly the opposite of what the Penal Order says. In this case, again, we have a military acquitted and held not responsible, but if you go to read the civil sentence you will find that you must respond civilly for the crime you committed, a crime that the Penal Court had just proven not to exist. This is a devastating thing for any army, and rightly Gianandrea Gaiani wrote on "Defense Analysis" that, with such a reasoning, any commander of our missions abroad will be called to respond personally to any action that ends with a damage that, according to the civil judges, could somehow have been avoided. The civilian judges write that the commander would have to put tanks in front of the base to avoid the truck bomb. But we all know - I was in the government at that time - that by political choice he had not been given tanks, because the mission had to take a not offensive attitude. They also write that he would have to strengthen the bases with the genius, but he had only one department of the genius, so he didn't have men at his disposal to place in that situation. I have put forward an interrogation and I address the Minister and Parliament: if a country sends men on dangerous missions and, for political choices, does not give them the necessary tools to fight offense against them, it will be the Government or Parliament that will answer for any further compensation. But is it possible that, unlike the criminal court that recognizes his innocence, this general, who is still in service, is personally liable for civil damage compared to an impriety and negligence that, has been proven, has not committed? Madam Minister, I await an answer on such an important issue that, I repeat, completely paralyses the ability of the commanders in the field to assume responsibilities. You know that in civil trials you hear "on the most likely that not" there is no ascertainment of the precise and circumstantial fact, you do not go to see if there is a will or not: you object that eventually, if there was a victim or, like that case, an attack, in some way you had to operate to avoid it. I remember that in Proto Pisani's judgment - which of you is from Bologna knows this - the civil magistrate wrote that the Ministries of Defence and Infrastructure should have kept the plane in place in Bologna and not let it leave, predicting that 800 kilometers away, an hour later, there would be an air battle, that battle that according to the Criminal Court never happened and did not exist. Madam Minister, I understand that you are deepening the subject, but you know better than I that the commands of the Army, the Navy, the Air Force and the Carabinieri have been shocked by this sentence. If this legal tendency is confirmed and there are no measures to prevent the commander from responding personally, how does an army general find a million euros to compensate? Where are you going to get this money? What do you have to do? How does a lieutenant, a captain, a major, a colonel in the field exercise an action in which there is the offensive and defensive risk of losing a man when he knows that then even if there is a court-martial, if he is fully acquitted can then be called by a civil judge to personally answer for the damage he caused? [[Applause from Senator D'Ambrosio Lettieri]] I say this to Parliament because I do not believe that in France, Germany, the United States or any other country in the world a military person is called upon to respond personally to civil damage, after the victim's family members have rightly been compensated by the State. Madam Minister, please answer the question you have asked, because there is this paralysis. Then it is clear that Parliament and the Government will assume their responsibilities. I take them: I was part of a government that for political reasons did not give the heavy vehicles, it adopted operationally the reasoning not to close the bridges on the Euphrates because the theory was that the base, managed by the Carabinieri, who were not condemned, was to be in an osmotic relationship with the population. Basically, we didn't have to be fierce. The speech was also politically correct, but then what was unpredictable happened in the given conditions. In announcing the vote in favour, on the resolution under consideration, therefore, I recall that protecting men on the ground means also giving them the legal security that they cannot risk, in addition to their lives, also their professional dignity and their assets, when they are engaged in missions to serve our country. [[Applause from Senators D'Ambrosio Lettieri and Formigoni. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-780.ana.u97	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-780.ana.u98	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-780.ana.u99	FORNARO (Art. 1-MDP). Madam President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, the report we are about to vote on is a growing role for our country in recent years in various theatres, the result of a culture of multilateralism and a logic of peacekeeping and the fight against international terrorism that has led us to be present in different and multiple realities. The report also photographs the explosion, especially in recent times, of the Mediterranean front. In our view, we need to read this picture of more than 40 speeches also in the context of this morning's reflections on the statements made by the President of the Council with a view to the forthcoming European Council, especially with regard to the issues of renewed commitment and a European defence perspective, which we welcome and on which significant progress has been made. As we said this morning, special attention must be paid to the issue of rationalization of military expenditure and, at the same time, to the need for common European policies on immigration and security issues. It should not be forgotten that the recent elections in the United States give us back a renewed unilateral vision of that country and the prospect of a different role of NATO or, better, a reduction of US engagement in the European and Mediterranean theatre, as the Minister also mentioned in his speech. Before we go into the matter, I think we need to highlight a question of method in the spirit of the framework law on international missions adopted in 2016, which we are implementing for the first time. The invitation to the Minister is to avoid, as far as possible, the automatic repositioning of missions. In our view, both the objectives and the results of each mission should be monitored annually in order to avoid the rather natural risk of bureaucratic and organizational inertia, if not a natural defence of physiological position income. In this respect, an effective business management model could be borrowed, that of the so-called zero-based budget, according to which each year the managers must review the costs and motivations of the intervention, thus avoiding a stratification of the historical expenditure that then leads to an objective difficulty in being able to select and evaluate to the full the usefulness of the individual interventions. With regard to the substance - and I shall conclude - we would like to point out that, as Mr Pegorer said in his speech in the debate, we need to monitor closely, in particular, the missions concerning our presence in Afghanistan, Libya and our participation in the NATO operation in Latvia, Estonia, Lithuania and Poland. I do not return, because I agree with them, to the arguments put forward by Mr Pegorer on these three points. With these observations of merit and with those proposals of method that I would still like to emphasize and not before having thanked those who are working in complex and problematic theatres in different continents, I announce the vote in favour of Group Article 1 - Democratic and progressive movement to the resolution at our examination. [[Applause from the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and ……]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-780.ana.u100	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-780.ana.u101	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-780.ana.u102	Mr Barani (ALA-SCLP). Madam President, already Senator Compagnone, representative of our Group in the Defence Commission, had the opportunity, in the debate, to anticipate our vote in favour of the resolution, also because we welcome, like the Minister himself and the rapporteurs, the application of framework law No 145 of 2016 which Parliament approved, which is a great reform. We are delighted to have helped to finally remove the obsolete instrument of the decree-law, which has always been used by successive governments, which did not allow Parliament to make more thoughtful choices because the House inevitably faced a forced grouping of international missions. Today, however, for the first time we are called upon to apply two different approved procedures for the extension of existing missions and the authorisation of new missions. Our work is important and all those who preceded me, in particular the Minister, are right to be proud and proud of our representatives, both men and women, engaged in missions of peace, of the great quality, professionalism, humanity and peacemaking ability that show the 7.459 military (which is the maximum limit that we can use) with the 167 police units in these 40 missions in 22 countries, in application of our Constitutional Charter. Perhaps I will repeat infinity that we have brought a great quality in the field of health, because our military have made themselves loved in the countries where they have gone. Of course, we have to make a little thought about Libya and the so-called Arab Spring: it was a mistake, in 2010-2011, to have listened to Sarkozy and Clinton and now we go to repair the mistake made also to prevent the boarding of those countries from leaving the various dinghy to arrive in Italy. This year too there has been a great deal of talk about the economic resources to be committed to these missions, but it is forgotten that the financial commitments planned on the increase relate to various humanitarian initiatives, not least mine clearance, actions to support peace processes and emergency interventions to protect Italian citizens and interests. Obviously this will also concern national reconciliation in Libya, as I said, and the stabilisation of the democratic process in Tunisia, and I return to the mistake made in the now distant 2010-2011 which also concerns the issue of the migratory emergency for which Italy will continue to contribute to these initiatives. The rapporteur, Mr Sangalli, in his reply, has well illustrated - and we thank him for this - the provisions of the framework law with the various strategic aims, vision and objective for which the intervention should not be short-sighted, but aimed at multilateral action to stabilize crises so that they do not reverberate against the interests of Italy, bringing support to the current dramas in the countries concerned. Ours, as I said, are missions that have to look south and southeast, where there are crisis areas. We hope that the UN, the European Union and the revised and correct NATO (now we must note that something has changed in the United States, the wind has changed and NATO will be revised) will no longer look east. We will repeat it all the time: it is a mistake to continue with the sanctions against Russia, they are useless measures that have only hurt Italy and certainly not the Europe that wanted them. NATO should look further south than east. We therefore believe, as Senator Companione said in conclusion, that the framework reform of last year's missions, which we have helped to achieve, has given an important result. Today, at last, Parliament is called for for the first time to apply this law and we are pleased to make our contribution, in the Commission with our vice-president, Vicar Compagnone and then in the Assembly, to the approval of the renewal of international missions. We were the protagonists last year in promulgating the framework law and today we are contributing to the drafting and discussion of the measure in our examination in the Commission and in this House. [[Applause from the ALA-SCCLP Group. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-780.ana.u103	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-780.ana.u104	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-780.ana.u105	GUALDANI (AP (Ncd-CpE)). Madam President, Mrs Minister, ladies and gentlemen, the document we are debating today is an important novelty: it is the first resolution on the authorisation and extension of international missions adopted by the Government after the entry into force of the framework law on international missions No 145 of 2016. 49 technical data sheets which form an integral part of the measure forwarded to the Chambers shall be annexed to the decision of the Council of Ministers. The framework law lays down general rules on the economic and regulatory treatment of personnel engaged in international missions and on the administrative profiles characterising the missions themselves. The new framework also provides for two separate procedures depending on whether it is the authorisation of new missions or the extension of existing missions. I recall that the resolution approved by the Commissions 3a and 4a together provides for the ex novo authorisation of all ongoing operations, as defined last year by Decree-Law No. 67 and No. 193 of 2016. These emergency measures are in addition to five more of the same type launched by successive governments during this parliamentary term. The Government also requests authorization to start the Italian participation in four new missions. For each of them, the geographical area of intervention, the objectives, the legal basis of reference, the composition of the arrangements to be sent (including the maximum number of staff involved), as well as the planned duration and the financial needs for the current year are indicated. Finally, in order to ensure maximum information on the current missions, it is planned to hold a parliamentary session on the progress of the authorised missions, to be held by 31 December of each year. The resolution is accompanied by a series of annexes, illustrating the legal and political-military framework in which the operations take place, a summary of the missions to be extended for 2017 and of the new missions that will be launched, the state of the cooperation and development interventions and, finally, the individual mission files. The section on the political-military framework, which identifies the strategic and operational contexts in which it is considered necessary to intervene in 2017. In particular, we must stress the contrast to terrorist radicalism, the security of the Euro-Mediterranean area, active support for the initiatives of the Atlantic Alliance in relation to the crisis profiles along the eastern and southern borders of the Alliance and, finally, participation in the measures adopted by the UN for international peace and stability. The document underlines that the current international situation continues to be characterised by widespread instability, resulting from the numerous unresolved conflicts also present in European areas, particularly in the context of crises ranging from West Africa to Afghanistan. The Mediterranean, in particular, is at the centre of this area of instability and in recent years has seen growing worrying phenomena: local conflicts, terrorist threat, collapse of state realities and uncontrolled spread of migratory phenomena. I remember, in fact, that on the coasts of the Mediterranean Sea that surround our country, especially towards the South-East, political processes are followed characterized by instability and precariousness that facilitate the birth and expansion of anti-systemic forces and, in the worst case, terrorist. The document analyses the situation with knowledge of the facts and highlights the critical issues that, with the cooperation of European and international partners, Italy will have to face as a protagonist. In fact, it also focuses on the situation in Libya and the Mediterranean area, where health support missions are being carried out (there are about 300 men on the Libyan territory), that of the United Nations to support the political reconstruction of the country, that bilateral one for the support to the Libyan coastguard (about 20 military for logistic activities and about 30 military for technical activities) and the European mission Eunavfor Med (585 engaged men, a naval unit and two aircraft), as well as the national military operation Safe Sea (700 men employed, with 4 naval units and 5 airplanes). Moreover, not by chance, one of the four missions to be launched in this 2017 is the participation of the State Police in the international mission, originating from a European decision, of strategic and operational support through advice, training and assistance to the Libyan authorities in the management of border security activities. The Council of Ministers document confirms the approach to combining the military and civil dimensions, which is one of the most appreciated features of our foreign engagement, with the objective of stabilisation that is more lasting than what can be achieved with the only military instrument. This results in a greater availability of resources for humanitarian initiatives, strengthening the rule of law, supporting local administrations, strengthening government structures and economic and social improvement, all of which are linked to international missions in the strict sense. From this point of view, development cooperation measures are envisaged to support the peace and stabilisation processes, humanitarian demining operations, actions to support the peace processes and the stabilisation of the institutions and emergency measures to protect Italian citizens and interests. These policies are financed for 2017 with almost EUR 300 million and are aimed primarily at fostering national reconciliation in Libya, stabilising the Tunisian democratic process, supporting reconstruction in Afghanistan, Iraq and Libya, and supporting those Middle East countries most exposed to destabilizing risks such as Lebanon and Jordan. The contexts relating to the fight against the threat posed by ISIS are defined in detail, with particular reference to the work of the Italian contingent in Iraq (about 1,490 men), mainly engaged in the difficult stabilisation of the liberated areas. I remember how we Italians have the great responsibility to protect the dam of Mosul: this proves how committed we are to peace and security in the world, in order to stabilize the political situation of the entire region. Positive is also the passage on our country's participation in the strengthening of NATO's devices, which, in addition to supporting operations in Turkey to defend the Alliance's southern borders, also deals with the launch of new missions in support of the Atlantic initiatives in Latvia, also in place of Bulgaria and Iceland, with the main aim of preserving the security of NATO's airspace. A further commitment concerns the instability that runs from Mauritania to the Horn of Africa, i.e. the places from which the main flows of asylum seekers and economic migrants arriving in Europe originate, through peace initiatives and the strengthening of the security sectors. After the agreement with Libya, the Government is committed to another important goal: an agreement with Niger, a country bordering the South of Libya and the main crossing territory of those arriving in Libya from the Horn of Africa. If we can make this agreement, we will help ourselves and Libya regulate transit. The document also highlights how, always to address the migration emergency, Italy will continue to contribute to European and international initiatives on migration and development, starting from the European fund established by the Valletta Summit in November 2015. The total needs for these interventions are estimated at around 111 million euros for 2017 (with an increase of 21 million euros compared to 2016). As far as the financial aspect is concerned, I note that almost EUR 1.5 billion has been allocated to finance the operations for 2017, an increase compared to the previous year. To conclude, I would like to show great appreciation for how the Government intended to train our international cooperation staff through the document that we are going to vote on. Mr President, may I first of all thank our women - today is a special day - who are engaged in missions abroad. I am convinced that through their professionalism they manage to make us proud of their participation. I also thank the men, far from the Peninsula, but close with the heart. So all I do is thank the Government for the opportunity it is giving our Parliament to vote on a document that will give Italy strength in an international context. [[Applause from the AP Group (Ncd-CpE).]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-780.ana.u106	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-780.ana.u107	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-780.ana.u108	De Cristofaro (Misto-SI-SEL). Madam President, Minister, we in the Italian Left do not vote in favour of this resolution for many reasons which I will try to explain quickly. First of all, as you imagine, knowing our positions for a long time here, we would like to take stock of the international missions to which we have taken part over these years. We know that the total financial need for military expenditure related to missions has increased by seven percent in 2017. We also know of the greater commitment, both in terms of men and in terms of means, in the Mediterranean Sea, and that those operations, which at the moment have a so-called humanitarian footprint, focused on the activities of patrolling, control and rescue to the boats of migrants, could soon, however, be transformed, with the extension of activities in the Libyan territorial waters and with the application of the naval blockade. The European Union, as we know, would like to speed up the Libyan Coast Guard training programme, unlock the delivery of naval means to operate in territorial waters in conjunction with the Libyan Coast Guard units, which would therefore have the responsibility of rescues to bring migrants back to the coast. We talk about a pact with Libya, but in reality, as we know, it is a pact only with a piece of Libya, because in that country there are even three governments, that of Serraj does not have the control of all the territory and that of Italy is, in fact, the only Western contingent at this moment present in the country. Iraq is the most costly undertaking, with 300 million euros, 50 million more than last year; it sees a massive presence, as is well known, of Italian soldiers. Afghanistan is the second most demanding operating theatre and has seen Italy for 15 years; the same mission that would have the objective of carrying out consultancy and assistance activities is returning to the front line. We also know that Afghanistan is ranked among the most difficult countries in the 2016 Global Peace Index: worse than it is there are only Syria, South Sudan and Iraq. The country is second only to Iraq, on a global scale, for terrorist activities. Although the United States, as is well known, has invested $117 billion in reconstruction since 2002, Afghanistan remains what it has been in recent years, that is, a country deeply insecure and unstabilized, despite the increase in budget that has been there. In short, the basic point is that the idea that has gone through the political debate also in our country, that is that one could export a form of democracy through military missions and that one could fight terrorism in this way, has instead produced only and exclusively instability. The experience of military missions over the last decade, particularly in Libya, Iraq and Afghanistan, clearly shows that having waged wars without having a political project shared with local forces and peoples was a dramatic mistake, a wrong choice, as well as a waste of public resources. On this aspect there was a real change of paradigm in Italian defence policy: no longer a static outpost of the Cold War, but a protagonist instead of the international scenario, which also contributed to the boom of the national military industry. I would also like to say a few words on this subject which can break the veil of a certain hypocrisy which also goes through the political debate in this House. It really serves little - or indeed, from a certain point of view, paradoxically serves a great deal - to participate in expensive, useless and counterproductive international missions, if then you do not have the strength and courage to question the model of development that has enriched itself with the production and the sale of weapons. On this, Madam Minister, there is an intolerable veil of hypocrisy, as if we were talking about separate and separate things, which, on the other hand, are clearly nothing but faces of the same coin. Over the past five years, in the very same days and months in which the Middle East was burning, arms exports to the countries of the Middle East and North Africa have grown by almost a third. And the really incredible paradox is that these weapons, through a real triangulation with countries so-called our allies, but also allies and financiers for example Daesh, have arrived in the hands of terrorists. So we fight, on international missions, against those weapons that we ourselves sold in the Middle East. But these things cannot be said, because there is an alleged national interest that comes first and there is a lack of will for a debate without fiction on these subjects. I would really like if we could deal with these matters a little less ideologically and try to discuss concrete things, instead of the propaganda we have heard for many years and the true unique thought that has crossed this country, which very often has left completely only the pacifist movement to try to affirm another truth that then, in time, has been discovered to be resoundingly real. We know that Italy is also present in Turkey, an ally and a member of NATO, the same Turkey that has favored the passage of those who go from Europe to fight with the Islamic jihad, the real highway of the jihad; the dirty war against the Kurdish organizations in Syria and Iraq. It is the same Turkey with which an agreement has been reached which violates European law and which betrays the most basic democratic foundations. In exchange for money, the borders of the Union have been outsourced, closing their eyes to respect for human rights, the repression of fundamental freedoms, as well as the anti-curd repression that the Turkish Government has been putting in place in recent months, even forgetting the serious responsibilities of the latter in supporting the Daesh. Even with regard to this aspect, I would have liked by the Italian Government much more incisive words about what is happening to the Kurdish people in Turkey; a people who should be friends, to whom Italy, in the past years, had also expressed elements of closeness. I am very sorry that, on the other hand, words of great responsibility and even great clarity have not come from our Government, with regard to the behaviour, totally undemocratic, which sadly marks, in this historic hairpin, the story of Erdogan's Turkey. In the light of these considerations, the Italian Left thinks that a change of course is necessary, total, unequivocal, starting from the discontinuity with the participation in several international missions, which should be interpreted not as a generic, dispersive search for prestige on the global scene, but as responding to a strategic vision of our country's foreign policy and as humanitarian interventions designed in a non-securitarian logic. This thing, once again, doesn't happen. Of course, a small step forward has been taken by addressing these missions as a whole and not with the decree of urgency, as it was until recently, but we consider this step largely insufficient compared to the analytical and political effort that would be indispensable in such a complex phase of the international scenario. [[Applause from the Misso-SI-SEL Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-780.ana.u109	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-780.ana.u110	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-780.ana.u111	SANTANGELO (M5S). Madam President, Madam Minister, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, when you listen to us from outside, I will continue my speech in the debate with the explanation of vote. I have stated all the missions, because it is misleading to say that they are more than 40: they are 49, so almost 50. Let's go see what they are. We have also analysed the costs, but not to say that international missions are just costs; and I am sorry, Mrs. Minister, that you have just pointed out this about our passage. I understand your difficulty with numbers, but consider that defense spending in Italy is 23.400 million euros per year: we are talking about 1.4% of GDP. It is an expenditure which, compared to the economic and financial situation of our country, in our opinion seems excessive, indeed is excessive. Not later than the day before yesterday this Parliament was committed to voting on a motion to decide to do an aerophotogrammetry of all the Italian soil to prevent the seismic problem. Well, if we go to see the commitments of this motion, it was written "to consider the opportunity of": the Government was not even in the condition of being able to be sure to allocate money to make an aerophotogrammetry to prevent the seismic risk of Italy. At this moment, however, 23,400 million are being allocated. To give the citizens out the size of this sum is about EUR 64 million per day. Probably, compared to the conditions and emergencies of this country, this expense could be contained by not making certain missions or by ending certain missions. A short while ago we also witnessed another intervention by Senator Giovanardi, who took the defences of the military. Too bad he forgets that during the government of his political side, when he was Minister of Defence Martino, 17 soldiers died and there was not even the gesture of dignity of the Minister's resignation. Now, however, with hypocrisy, he makes us the Filippo on what should be the defence of the military. We boast of the work done by these military, which we appreciate, but then we have no regard for their conditions. Mrs. Minister, we don't share the defense project for the country, not for 2017, but the one projected from here to the next thirty years. No later than 1 March we had the opportunity to read an interview about the Republic, a newspaper that, alas, is still read by many citizens in which you said that, in your vision of defence and in the vision of the government you represent, we must rejuvenate the army. We agree on that, but you're talking about precariousness, giving us numbers. [[Comments of Minister Pinotti.]] I read your speech, so you may possibly have a way of denying what is reported in the newspaper. In the interview he says: "We need young soldiers, but we do not want to create a military precariousness." That's what he says, and then he says, The key is to enlist people when they are 19-20 years old, so they could be almost my children, offering them an important training package for seven years of their lives, teaching languages and professionalism, providing them with qualified patents. If they are on the market at 26-27 years of age, it will not be difficult to find another job (...). Mrs. Minister, what are you talking about? She talks about exploiting our young people from 20 to 27 years old, and then leaving them in the middle of a road. If next to this idea of yours, there is no proper welfare in the country, that can allow the relocation of these children, then you are talking about the precariousness of those military, which you so much boast and especially of the troops. We fill our mouths, but then it's the troops we forget. No one has to stand back and that's what you're doing with your government! Mrs. Minister, keep making the catwalks, so much so that she went to Sanremo, talking about Article 11 of our Constitution... Borioli (PD). It's not Malindi! SANTANGELO (M5S). ...but forgetting that in the missions that you asked us to implement, there is one on cooperation concerning Yemen too. I tell you then that there are reports from the United Nations and Amnesty International that human rights are being violated in Yemen by Saudi Arabia: precisely those human rights to which you refer by quoting Article 11 of the Constitution. Are you aware, Mrs. Minister, that Italy supplies weapons to Saudi Arabia? Yes or no? Say it through parliamentary acts and put these things on white, without the hypocrisy with which you fill your mouth about peace missions, which peace missions are not. You know very well: Mrs Minister, you have spoken of security in the Mediterranean, saying that we cannot intervene on every means in difficulty. For the fishing vessel of Mazara del Vallo, however, it was not possible to intervene, but Mazara del Vallo is located in Sicily, a region where there are dozens of military bases. You said we couldn't get there, because the ships move slowly. Mrs. Minister, who do you think you're talking to? I come from Trapani and I know what it means to go to sea with a boat and fortunately I can also read what you have written in the papers. That is why I know very well that in the Safe Sea operation there are also five planes and planes are faster than ships. Mr. Minister, if you don't know, I'll tell you again tonight. I would have liked to have talked about concrete things and also about a new model of defense. We have tabled amendments to try to improve the work done. It is true that we have faced ourselves in the Commissions, but here the Deputy Minister rejects our agenda. I read it because we cannot understand it, and neither will the colleagues of the other political forces be able to understand these things because we agreed them in the Commission. With this agenda commit the Government to request from the international and supranational bodies to which Italy participates, that, in the mandates of the missions, explicit objectives of protection of the civilian population persisting in the conflict areas, so as to have the necessary legal cover to sanction the Armed Forces operating in opposition to them, and demand actions aimed at protecting the lives of civilians. Mr Vice-Minister, you must have the courage to include what you have written in the rewording of this agenda in your resolution; otherwise, ask someone from the Democratic Party to table an amendment and I will vote for it. However, you must have the courage to vote on what we have proposed because, when hospitals are hit, we do not know how to intervene. That was what our agenda was for. So, your semantic scam doesn't go away. I would ask you to vote on our agenda. I want to see the courage you have in rejecting him and what motivations you will bring. We need a new model of defence where cooperation is really at the heart of what we do, where we go to review Italy's foreign and defence policy: something that is not in your hands. However, I ask you kindly: do not fill your mouth with Article 11 of the Constitution and the word "peace" because it is not part of your political DNA. That is why we shall be voting no to this act. [[Applause from the M5S Group. Comments from the PD Group]] Borioli (PD). Malindi! AIROLA (M5S). Ever since you split up, you've been more careful.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-780.ana.u112	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-780.ana.u113	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-780.ana.u114	Alicata (FI-PdL XVII). Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, Minister, Members of the Government, the resolution that we are about to vote on is foreseen, as explained by previous speeches, by Law No 145 of 2016, which goes beyond the desperate discipline of the urgent decree on international missions. It is a measure for which our party has spent well in both branches of Parliament, helping to fill a regulatory vacuum. The interventions of the Armed Forces, of which we have always shared the important value, represent a qualifying point of our foreign policy and have contributed, in recent years, to increase the international role of Italy, thanks to the professionalism of the military and the extraordinary work in the various scenarios in which they operate. Today's historical moment sees our country at the center of a geopolitical area full of conflicts and instability, dangers and anxieties that can undermine our strategic interests and our safeguard. The numerous international commitments in various areas of the world must not, therefore, make us lose sight of the primary interests around the corner, coinciding also with our security. Therefore, the Italian Government has done well; indeed, the Italian Parliament has done well to make the Secretary-General of NATO understand that the times and threats required more attention to the South side by the Atlantic Organization. It was therefore envisaged, at the Italian initiative and by Minister Pinotti, Operation Sea Guardian, to strengthen the maritime safety system at the centre of the Mediterranean. At the same time, it is good to remain in the field with its own operations, such as the Safe Sea, to protect our energy interests, national mercantile traffic and our fishing vessels which, however, recently, as explained by Senator Santangelo, have been attacked by machine guns by Libyan motor boats, probably of the Government of Tobruk, of a part, that is, of that country, Libya, which is not yet unified, one year after the inauguration of the new Executive of Al Serraj. The Italian Government has been hasty, along with the German mediator, to recognize and give international dignity to those who still today, after a year, not only did not unified the country, but did not control, perhaps, even the whole Tripoli. And it was neglected, to put it mildly, General Haftar who, before being defenested by Tripoli, represented the true Government recognized by the international community. If we want to work on a united Libya we must quickly acknowledge the need to involve Cyrenaica in the process of peace, overcoming the guilty delays, and to provide, with the appropriate guarantees of security, for the opening of our consulate in Tobruk. [[Brusio.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-780.ana.u115	Colleagues, allow Senator Alicata to perform his speech. There's a buzz at an unsustainable volume.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-780.ana.u116	Alicata (FI-PdL XVII). Nor does it suffice to have decided to support Al Serraj, as the Minister of the Interior says, just because 90% of migrants leave Tripolitania. A conclusion that, if so, would denote little foresight and a narrow horizon, aggravated by the fact that the Libyan Government sponsored by us considers Sharia the only source of law, with all that follows. The protocol signed in recent days may be a good thing, but it risks remaining rag paper or even being a danger if not all Libyan protagonists, who have different external supporters from each other, are involved. The situation remains very fragile and complex, made even more problematic by a European Union that formally supports Italy also on migration issues, but in fact the Libyan commitment remains, for now, the sole prerogative of our country. The Italian government was eager to open the embassy, receiving the applause of our allies. But where are the other European countries? Where are French and English? Where are the Americans who with Obama and Clinton were the main protagonists not only of the Libyan chaos, but of the disasters that have set North Africa and the Middle East on fire since 2011? At this juncture, Italian foreign policy has been incapable of expressing an autonomy of thought, always at the rear of the Americans, also in imposing unnecessary and persistent sanctions on Russia, which have harmed, in the first place, the Italian interests, given the presence in that country of more than 500 of our companies. NATO's decisions, always at the behest of the Obama-Clinton duo, which envisage an increase in military forces at the eastern borders of Europe and in the Baltic States, are also a matter of concern. On the other hand, which Italian Premier should have expressed autonomy of thought in foreign policy? Maybe that Premier who, thinking he was smart and smart, encouraged a few months ago Mrs. Clinton to defend Italy from Trump's? Fortunately, a few months ago, it was the Italian people who defended themselves from Renzi. The Minister for Foreign Affairs in the Defence Commission has called for a Europe that as a whole takes over the leadership in Libya, but of a European policy that converges in Libya, at the moment, there is no trace of it. Just as we do not see the shadow of Europe in combating the smuggling of migrants, with the loneliness of the Italian innerte having to deal daily with this drama, without a moment of respite. The incentive policy, which you have cultivated since Letta, has saved many lives, but many thousands have been lost and without the constant political encouragement to set sail for Italy today would be alive. Despite the signing of the protocol with Libya, which still has to come into force who knows when, the arrivals of illegal immigrants multiply and the Italian Government does nothing to discourage the departures and the horrible traffic that feeds the criminal organizations, not only Libyan. The European mission Eunavfor Med, which we supported on the assumption that it would stop human trafficking, does not yet reach stage three because the Libyan authorities do not allow military ships to enter their waters. Hence the call to the Government, contained in the resolution, to take action to implement the said third phase of the mission, also intervening to the UN Security Council to encourage the other members to take on the deterrent measures to stop the flow. In the blackberries we will limit ourselves to giving money, means and training to the Libyan coastguard that, while beginning timidly to retain with the few means available to the people of migrants, will hardly manage to put an embankment to the trafficking of human beings, the industry at the most flourishing moment of that country, at the head of which it seems there are also some commanders of that same coastguard that we train. Mrs Pinotti, we learned this a few hours ago during the hearing of the High Representative of the European Union for Foreign Affairs and Security Policy, Minister Mogherini. Therefore, care must be taken when issuing certificates. Until our military ships cease to be like the ferries that at the times set by some non-governmental organization go under the Libyan coast to take the desperate, we - I regret it - will continue to consider this Government involuntary accomplice - hopefully - of the traffickers of human beings, as well as moral responsible for the thousands of deaths that these journeys cause. A government that after so many years cannot control illegal immigration and put a stop to it means that it does not want or is not able to solve the problem, despite having men, means and professionalism to face it at the origin. The situation in our country is starting to become unsustainable and with the summer, as you can already see in these days, the numbers risk to deflagrate. It is no longer bearable to witness impotent speculations on the migratory phenomenon while the risk of terrorist infiltration remains at present, as confirmed by the reports to Parliament by security analysts. Madam Minister, there is another serious matter to be emphasized. You have almost broken your relationship with Egypt, our historic partner in North Africa, the main ally of Tobruk and the country that is fundamental to resolving the Libyan crisis. Yet Italy has chosen to withdraw from Egypt, also deciding not to deliver the spare parts of F-16 aircraft, while that country is at the forefront in the fight against terrorism. Although politically on the ground, the Minister for Foreign Affairs and International Cooperation should leave a trace of his mandate taking the initiative to send our ambassador back to Egypt as soon as possible, while closely following the investigation into the murder of the young compatriot and then working to ensure that Italy returns to being a point of reference in Europe for Egypt. 20.27 (Follow Alicata). After that, our attitude has always been to support the missions of our armed forces, sharing their usefulness and relevance. We are therefore pleased to renew to them, also on this occasion, the appreciation for the heavy commitments they are called in many international contexts, confirming with our vote the indistinguishable feeling of a united country. [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-780.ana.u117	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-780.ana.u118	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-780.ana.u119	LATORRE (PD). Madam President, while I was listening to the debate, I was thinking about what the title of this speech might be. Above all, listening to the last explanations of vote, it occurred to me that, after all, a title could be: "There is no peace in this world without security; peace cannot be built without security." I have also come to mind the words of Cardinal Martini, who, referring to peace, said that it is necessary to constantly rethink it and re-propose it in the current terms, so that it is not mere abstraction or ideology. Dear colleague Santangelo, this idea of peace we have in our DNA and it is with this spirit that we face the challenges and responsibilities that this time gives to our country. My colleagues have done well to recall that today, for the first time, the Senate is called upon to authorize the participation of our contingents in international missions with a new procedure. However - and I would like this not to be overlooked - there is not only a procedural change. Although the international missions are the essential chapter of our foreign and defence policy, in recent years they have been authorized by decree-laws that, from time to time, renewed a commitment, thus exposing to a framework of constant precariousness the commitments we assumed in the various international fora. In addition, our own military were exposed to precariousness, with regard to the contributory and insurance aspects, but with the effect of not having that necessary debate in Parliament on the scenario within which these missions were to be placed. Finally, with this new regulatory framework, these limits have been exceeded. The same debate that we have held here today, albeit in conditions and with problematic times, has confirmed that the role of Parliament, thanks to this new rule and in line with the Government, allows us to link and better place our interventions in the perspective vision that we have of a scenario that today is extremely delicate and problematic, in particular with reference to the area in which most of our military missions are concentrated that is precisely the Mediterranean. [[Brusio]] Excuse me, President Casini, but I hear the loud tone of your voice in your ear. In this area there was a progressive American disengagement, which actually did not begin with Donald Trump (the first signs had already been given with President Obama's so-called leading from behind choice) but which with the new American administration had a particularly significant impulse. This element, together with the growing Russian protagonism and the confrontation within the Muslim world, which, far beyond the religious reasons that characterize it, is actually aimed at defining the new hierarchies in the great area of the Middle East, are all traits with which we have to contend in pursuing a fundamental objective for Italy (and I say fundamental for Europe), that of the stabilisation of the Mediterranean. [[Brusio]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-780.ana.u120	Colleagues, you actually understand very badly what Senator Latorre says that he is doing a lot of work. Let's try to lower the tone of our voices.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-780.ana.u121	LATORRE (PD). We're used to labor, ma'am. Don't worry. The red thread linking the various military missions and the Italian political and diplomatic initiative at this stage is precisely in the commitment to defeat terrorism and to support the efforts to maintain peace, because this is what characterizes the majority of our military missions (from that in the Balkans, to that in Lebanon and that in Afghanistan) and that acts throughout the European neighbourhood area in the course of crises that go from West Africa to Afghanistan and that, precisely, sees the Mediterranean as the epicentre of this instability. That's why this is the source of a greater responsibility for our country, to guarantee the security of our country and above all in the awareness that today we are no longer and can no longer be a safe user country: we must be, with one more responsibility, safety producers. So that is the spirit for which the billions devoted to security commitment are investments for peace. It is not paradoxical what I am saying, apart from the fact that much of the percentage of GDP devoted to military spending in our country serves to carry out a great civil function: I am thinking of the extraordinary work of the Safe Roads operation and I think - dear Santangelo, about the aerial photogrammetric reliefs - that today there are 3000 military operating in the earthquake zones and have been fundamental protagonists also of a civil work. So what is emerging in this historical phase, precisely, is that foreign policy, defence policy and security policy are sides of the same coin and this imposes a new protagonism also of our country. This must not mean in any way a nationalistic retreat, anything else: the epochal issues before us, from migratory flows to different instability, to the terrorist offensive, require shared solutions. Nationalistic closure attitudes, particularly in this sector, can only increase the problematic rate of these crises. It is with this approach that we continue to renew our commitment to the different supranational realities in which we are engaged. Above all, we are protagonists - and I would like to acknowledge this to our Minister of Defence, whom I would like to thank for the battle he is taking - in taking seriously the objective of building a European defence system through the processes envisaged in the Lisbon Treaty of so-called enhanced cooperation with those countries which, in our reality, represent the vast majority of the European defence system. Italy, Germany, France and Spain together make up 60% of the European defence system. So if this process of enhanced cooperation increases - other than two speeds - it becomes a decisive and decisive driver for the construction of the European defence system. Today this is an objective that we can and must pursue, because it meets the sensitivity and consensus of public opinion. You see, the great paradox is that what has historically been the fundamental reason for a difficulty in the growth of the European project, that is, the issue of defence and security, has now become the instrument by which a European political process can take off again. We must exploit this positive paradox without putting it in opposition - anything else - but also strengthening our role and our participation in NATO. In this spirit we must also face a dialogue, a confrontation with the great players of the world game, starting with Russia. In this regard, however, I want to say it very clearly and I want to say it today, we must also demand from our main ally to understand and to have more clarity about the activity of espionage carried out towards mobile phones, smartphones and what else emerged compared to an initiative by the CIA. I want to say this with the same determination with which we must defend our national autonomy also from incursions, such as the offensive cyber that we have recorded in recent months, or from initiatives that tend to intervene in the Italian political affair, even with improper meetings because they lack any institutional significance. This I want to say very clearly because the political autonomy of our country is one of the necessary conditions to open up the confrontation also with our Russian interlocutors. In this strategic framework is the measure that we are voting on today, which confirms the validity of the addresses chosen and above all allows our country to pay, even in this circumstance, due thanks, the due homage to those many soldiers who, let us not forget, are perhaps one of the main reasons for Italian pride. [[Applause from the PD groups and Senator Formigoni.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-780.ana.u122	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-780.ana.u123	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-780.ana.u124	SANTANGELO (M5S). We call for the votes of document XXIV, No 71, and of all agendas to be taken by simultaneous ballot by electronic procedure.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-780.ana.u125	I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of document XXIV, No 71. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). Ladies and gentlemen, following the adoption of document XXIV, No 71, agendas from G1 to G6 are not included. Agendas G1, G2, G3 and G4 are intended to withdraw the authorisation of missions already authorised by the resolution adopted. The G5 agenda commits the Government to reducing the funding of international missions, contrary to the resolution adopted by the Assembly. The G6 agenda involves a remodulation of funding for the fight against Daesh, in contrast to Schedule 19 annexed to the resolution of the Council of Ministers and approved by the Assembly by the vote of the resolution. These are the reasons why agendas from G1 to G6 are foreclosed. We shall then proceed to the vote on the G7 agenda on which the Government has proposed a rewording. I therefore ask Senator Santangelo if he will accept the proposed reformulation.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-780.ana.u126	Madam President, for the reasons I made clear in the explanation of vote, I am convinced that we cannot accept the rewriting of the agenda. Rather, you present it to the government alone. I therefore call for it to be put to the vote as it is.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-780.ana.u127	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-780.ana.u128	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-780.ana.u129	FALANGA (ALA-SCLP). Madam President, if my fellow members on the G7 agenda agree to have my signature signed, I will spend a few words. [[Comments.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-780.ana.u130	Colleagues, I see that the proposers on the agenda have accepted and, therefore, I give the floor to Senator Falanga.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-780.ana.u131	Madam President, we are talking about something very serious and I do not think it is appropriate to prevent a colleague from briefly explaining the reasons why he has asked for his signature on an agenda. Mrs. Minister, I don't know if you're the author of this reformulation, which is wrong for the truth, even from a literal point of view, but a scam under the substantive one. You must, in fact, explain to me what it means to take every possible initiative in international bodies so that the words: "where relevant" are included in the mandates of the missions. What do these words mean? Mr Santangelo did well not to accept the reformulation. Have the courage to say no, they are not missions aimed at protecting the civilian population. If you have this courage, that's fine; otherwise try not to use magic formulas that mean nothing and evade the problem. When it comes to peace missions, I mean missions aimed at protecting the civilian population. If then you have the courage to give a very clear title to this type of mission, I am in; otherwise I am not in. And, wherever the initiative comes from, I ask for subscription, regardless of our political positionings. [[Brusio.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-780.ana.u132	I invite you to conclude.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-780.ana.u133	FALANGA (ALA-SCLP). That is why I shall be voting in favour of this agenda and I also ask my group colleagues to have the sensitivity to vote on an agenda which seeks to protect the civilian populations living in war territories.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-780.ana.u134	I call on Senator Marton and other senators to vote by simultaneous ballot on the G7 agenda. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). The presenters accepted the rewording of the G8 agenda proposed by the Government. I therefore refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of the agenda G8 (text 2), presented by Senator Romani Paolo and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). The presenters accepted the rewording of the G9 agenda proposed by the Government. I therefore refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of the agenda G9 (text 2), presented by Senator Divina and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B).
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-780.ana.u135	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-780.ana.u136	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-780.ana.u137	BOCCHINO (Misto-SI-SEL). Madam President, I rise to conclude the relay of Italian Left Senators with the request to include the referendums promoted by the CGIL on vouchers and the rules that limit the joint responsibility of workers in subcontracting firms in crisis. Madam President, I make a very simple point, starting from another referendum, the constitutional one: one of the keys to interpreting that result is that the great reforms of this country must be done in a shared way, and not by majority voting. This was Renzi's mistake in proposing that reform. [[Brusio.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-780.ana.u138	Colleagues, please, there's a senator talking. So if you have to go, go away, but give him a chance to intervene, otherwise he doesn't feel anything. You're welcome, Senator.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-780.ana.u139	BOCCHINO (Misto-SI-SEL). Thank you, President. I said that this is also the far-sightedness of the constituent Fathers in writing Article 138. Well, if the great reforms are not made in a shared way, they clash with the common feeling of the country, which responded in a clear and clear way by rejecting that project. Madam President, there is another major reform carried out by the Renzi Government: labour reform, the so-called jobs act, which shares with constitutional reform the fact that it has been carried out by majority voting. I would remind you that there have been two votes of confidence in the Senate with which this reform - alas - has passed, once again making governmental violence against Parliament which has not been given the opportunity to discuss it on the subject. Well, the two votes of confidence after two months have passed with just 165 votes the first time and 166 votes the second time and, therefore, with a majority even reduced in numerical terms of those entitled and the reform has been all but shared. It is for this reason, Madam President, that I believe that the request to bring a part of that reform to the popular vote is absolutely justified, just and legitimate, stigmatizing the fact that, unfortunately, one of the requirements has not passed the scrutiny of the Constitutional Court. Of course I do not want to delegitimise the Constitutional Court, but the legal-constitutional reasons for the rejection of this referendum are not - in my opinion - sufficiently valid, since we have precedents in the opposite direction. However, the demand remains valid to bring it to the judgment of the citizens, in order to find whether the great reform of the job - a very important issue, on which our Republic is based - meets the favor of the Italian citizens or not. I therefore ask, on behalf of all my other colleagues and on behalf of the Italian Left, for the immediate calendarization of this referendum. We are close to the date of April 15 and, therefore, put it immediately on the calendar, to let the country also express itself on it. [[Applause from the Misto-SI-SEL Group and the Senators Guerra and Mussini.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-780.ana.u140	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-780.ana.u141	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-780.ana.u142	MORRA (M5S). Madam President, I would like to put a question to Mr Delrio, namely whether he knows that Calabria exists and particularly the port of Gioia Tauro. I address this question not so provocatively, because the Minister evidently remembers to promote the port of Genoa and the port of Trieste in his visits abroad (he has recently been in China and has asked for investments for these two ports of North Italy). It forgets, however, a commitment that has assumed in occasion of the presentation in Parliament of the decree-law dedicated to the Mezzogiorno, inside of which the company was instituted for the administration of the harbour job. Too bad that to date the Authority of harbour system of Gioia Tauro has not been at all named, as if precisely the Minister ignores the existence of this great reality, that alone generated more than 50% of the private GDP Calabrian. I understand that we must all be enslaved to clientele logics, but when there is the possibility to grow the Southern Regions, it happens that the Government goes sideways. In addition, I would like to remind you that we have been sent 200 curricula by professionals who are candidates for these prestigious assignments. Very well, but we would like them to be made public, unless the appointments should always be those of friends of friends, as perhaps happened recently - we all know - in the Council case. When there are contracts and there is work to do, perhaps it is better for the magic lily or those who attend to it to have positions of some weight. I would therefore like a commitment from Minister Graziano Delrio, in a short time, because Gioia Tauro cannot die. In my area it is said: at the time the doctor studies, the sick person dies. Maybe Joy Taurus needs quick intervention. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-780.ana.u143	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-780.ana.u144	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-780.ana.u145	CANDIANI (LN-Aut). Madam President, I would like to draw the House's attention to two circumstances that have characterized Perugia in the last few hours. The Regional Council of Umbria has been occupied, for almost twenty-four hours, by two regional councillors of the League and the 5 Star Movement, for a very serious situation that led the President of the Regional Council and the President of the Region of Umbria not to welcome a debate in the Chamber that gave attention to the dangerous and harmful emissions to health deriving from the malfunctioning of the incinerator of Terni. It is a situation of extreme seriousness, which cannot but be stigmatized. We will be careful in the next few hours and give all the closeness to those who are in this case simply claiming the right of citizens to have guaranteed their health and to be informed, through a debate in the highest political expression of the Region. At the same time, Madam President, something that we do not like at all is happening in Perugia: in these days there is a request for intervention from the Umbrian MPs, to which we associate and which the North League supports, so that the ONAOSI, the National Work of Assistance for Italian Health Care Orphans, is not merged, in the bill that is currently in preparation, with the INPS. It is an organism that has a centuries-old history, with the accounts in place, that every year gives hospitality and follows more than 200 minors and that in its centuries-old history has always proved to have accounts in order. It would be in this case to remove not only an important structure in Perugia, but also a guarantee of assistance to a system that in this case is only virtuous, to combine it, instead, with a large wheelchair as unfortunately we know to be the INPS. In the reform and reorganization plans, it must not be overlooked that what works must be respected. If what does not work must be reformed, it cannot necessarily be done through the amalgamation of the virtuous bodies; otherwise we will not get the reform of the bodies that waste, but instead we will kill the good initiative of bodies like ONAOSI, that we want to continue to work in Perugia for all the orphans of Italian health care. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-780.ana.u146	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-780.ana.u147	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-780.ana.u148	BOTTICS (M5S). Madam President, on 24 January the Court of Justice of the Senate Act 2093 began its examination in the Commission, namely the establishment of a Commission of Inquiry into the events of the Il Forteto cooperative. To date, forty-three days have passed. The urgency procedure which has been assigned to the act to set up the Committee of Inquiry provides for a half-time period. And, therefore, if it was two months before, now it is a month: it seems to me that the deadline has expired. I therefore invite President D'Ascola, colleagues Buccarella, Casson, Capacchione, Mussini, Albertini, Anitori, Buemi, Caliendo, Cappelletti, Cardiello, Cirinna, Cucca, Di Maggio, Falanga, Filippin, Giarrusso, Ginetti, Giovanardi, Lo Giudice, Lumia, Mineo, Pagliari, Palma and Stefani to immediately conclude the examination of the measure and bring it to the Assembly as soon as possible, because the victims of the Forteto deserve justice and not atrocities. [[Applause from the M5S Group and Senator Candiani.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-780.ana.u149	The motions, questions and questions received by the Presidency will be published in Annex B to today's report.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-780.ana.u150	The Senate will meet again tomorrow, Thursday 9 March, in two public sessions, the first at 9.30 a.m. and the second at 16 a.m., with the following agenda: (See agenda) The sitting is closed. [[Applause from the M5S Group for the Presidency]] . 20.59 p.m.
