ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-748.ana.u1	The sitting was opened at 17.08. The Minutes shall be read. Mr SAGGESE, Secretary, gave a reading of the Minutes of the sitting of the previous day.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-748.ana.u2	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-748.ana.u3	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-748.ana.u4	LANGELLA (ALA-SCLP). Mr President, I would like to ask for the vote on the Minutes, subject to a quorum check. Verification of quorum
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-748.ana.u5	I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators, by electronic procedure. (The request is supported). I therefore call on the senators to make their presence known by electronic means. (Follows the quorum check.) The Senate has a quorum. Resumption of the debate on the Minutes I put the Minutes to the vote. It's approved.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-748.ana.u6	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-748.ana.u7	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-748.ana.u8	Montevecchi (M5S). Mr President, I would like to ask you to speak because I received an ANSA report this afternoon from which we learn that, as regards the civil protection measure, for which Senator Mussini asked for urgent procedure yesterday, which perhaps did not assess all the political aspects that might have had this request, it seems that the Commissions have not yet been convened for the examination of the amendments and therefore for the continuation of the procedure, as would be expected of an urgent request. So, I'm wondering something. Yesterday, President Lanzillotta wanted at all costs to set the deadline for tabling amendments for 12 noon today, after which he moved it to 2 p.m. with a magnanimous gesture, saying that the urgency required that this be done very quickly, in order to bring the measure to the House. We now learn this from the ANSA and, with simple reasoning, we wonder how the measure will come to this House by this week. It'll probably end next time. At this point, it would have been much more correct - correct me if I am wrong - to maintain the timetable for this week and to postpone the debate on the measure in this House until next Tuesday. In fact, if you want to think badly, you might also think that, in the end, you wanted to use a request to postpone votes that provide for agreements. I would like to clarify this on the part of the Presidency, because then it is legitimate to feel taken a little bit around.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-748.ana.u9	I'll get back to you right after I give you some communications, Senator.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-748.ana.u10	The list of senators on leave and absent on assignment received from the Senate, as well as further communications to the Assembly, will be published in Annex B to today's Minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-748.ana.u11	I would warn you that qualified votes can be taken in the course of today's sitting by electronic means. Therefore, from this moment on, the time limit of twenty minutes from the notice provided for in Article 119 (1) of the Regulation (at 17.15). Senator Montevecchi, yesterday the House voted on some changes to the agenda and today we are proceeding on the basis of these indications. When we get to the point that you have raised, we will check the state of the art and we will hear from the Commission what conditions they will find themselves in. You have legitimately raised one issue, but our work is proceeding on the agenda that was voted on yesterday.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-748.ana.u12	The next item is the continuation of the debate on document XXIII, point 18. I would remind you that during the afternoon sitting the replies of the rapporteur and the representative of the Government took place.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-748.ana.u13	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-748.ana.u14	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-748.ana.u15	COUNCIL (LN-Aut). Mr President, my Group has already expressed its support for the work carried out by the anti-Mafia Commission, a work which we hope will put the Government in a position to be precise in applying the points that have been highlighted with some force and on which the House of Members has already expressed its favourable opinion and, apparently, almost all the parties and movements present in this House. There are, however, some things that need to be repeated. For example, it is absolutely important to highlight the social issue because we have become, President, a people of players. Once we were just a people of saints, poets and navigators and now we have also become players, and strong players. We are a country where the idea that the blindfolded goddess can give us a gift whenever we put a coin in a slot machine is absolutely present, the mythological cornucopia is the most eagerly desired by Italians and we have a per capita expense for the game of 1,400 euros. Italy is the first country for gambling in Europe and the third in the world. It is a turnover of 84.5 billion, of which 23 are illegally made by the mafias. This turnover represents 5% of GDP, it is practically the third enterprise in this country, an enterprise among other things - it is perhaps the only one - in strong growth and very flourishing, which certainly does not suffer from the crisis and indeed the crisis feeds and thrives on it. Of the 8,057 municipalities present in this country are only 923 those where there are no slot machines, and if you think that these latter municipalities are countries that have an average of 500-600 inhabitants, this gives you the idea of what is actually happening. There are 475,000 gambling machines distributed throughout the Peninsula. But how much does the state actually gain? About 8 billion go into the state coffers. The following question is: how much does it cost us? The social costs of gambling diseases are estimated at EUR 5 or 6 billion, between health costs and a fall in the working capacity of those affected. What does the state do? The state justifies its weak and condescending attitude to gambling. Mr President, this is a wrong approach. [[Brusio.]] Mr. President, if no one cares about gambling...
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-748.ana.u16	You're right, Senator Council. I understand that, as you can imagine, everyone is probably commenting on other events, but, ladies and gentlemen, we are working on an important subject and the Senator Council has every right to intervene in an acceptable climate. Please, Senator Council, resume vigorously and conquer this House.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-748.ana.u17	As I said, this is a wrong approach, whereas a serious approach by the state would be necessary. We need to define better the relationship between the economy and the damage done to society with such an attitude: the balance between attention to state GDP and well-being and the sense of life satisfaction is largely negative. When the cake is rich, the big mafia organizations don't think twice about getting big pieces, from the North to the South of this country. It is estimated that criminal organizations carry billions of euros in their coffers and, thanks to this huge flow of money, they have the opportunity to update their technological knowledge; if then this bad life is also rooted in the territory and organized crime is also able to offer services to the game market like no other, it is clear that the mafia is like an ivy that infiltrates inside a wall, crumbling it in calcinacci. The systems that use the evil to develop are the following: obtaining, through forerunners, concessions of bingo salt and betting points; the imposition on gaming dealers rigged; the insertion in the segment of online gambling, great plague, where you also lose the ability to have money in your hands so that it becomes really complicated the management of this gaming segment. The Mafia infiltrates with money laundering by buying winning ticket parties, another very complex system, as well as granting loans to hardened players and managing gambling and betting of various kinds. Mr President, we have also listened to the last speech by the President of the X Committee, Mr Vaccari, who highlighted the main points of the request that the Committee has made and that have already been voted on in the House, an excellent work which we hope will not remain yet another unanswered document. We have also listened to Deputy Minister Bubbico and the issue is clearly within everyone's reach: everyone can inform about this scourge. However, let us point out that we at the League have tabled a bill which tends at least to limit the advertising of gambling on TV; then decide President Grasso or President Boldrini from which Chamber to begin the examination of this proposal. There are also other proposals and perhaps a joint examination of the measures could be helpful. As I said, there is the question of the mafias: the Casalesi, the Schiavone, the Lo Piccolo, the Mancuso, the Santapaola are just some of the fifty clan of the Camorra involved in the affairs of gambling, which in this country represents about 14% of the criminal turnover. Attention, however, because if you think that the attention of these clans concerns only the totonero, the clandestine bets or the hidden bisques, the judicial investigations have instead revealed that there is a strong presence of criminals in the world of legal game. Our president of the Senate, Pietro Grasso, when he was still a national anti-mafia prosecutor, said that "We are seeing more and more the decrease of illegal betting and the increase of gambling and, since the mobs never abandon a market where they get profits, there is concern that these are about to move into the government sector of the country." Never would have been more right. Reality is precisely this. Now, there is no more to chase these mafia activities, these mafia clans where there is underground game, we must try to understand, as I said, how to defuse this social and even economic bomb for the country in the context of legal game. Another consideration I would like to make, Mr President, is that the 2016 Stability Act had set a reduction of not less than 30% of the machine fleet (or slot machines) over the next four years, while it is to be noted that the equipment has increased by 10%, from 378,000 to 418,000, and this thanks to a circular from the Customs and Monopolies Agency. Mr President, there is the idea of putting a hand on a sector that brings a lot of profits to the budget of this state, but we must not make fun of it because, if on the one hand, we are making spectacular arguments about the social issue, the issue of families, the issue of young people rather than the elderly who play retirement, on the other hand, we are a little hypocritical, because it is an activity that, albeit legal in some respects, is stimulated by an attitude of the state not really exceptional. We had made some proposals, which I hope the Government will take into account and which I hope the President of the X Committee will have the capacity, in addition to our support, to take forward at governmental level. We were faced with the problem of putting local self-governments in a position to cope adequately and promptly with social situations of danger, trying to understand, in particular, what kind of attitude we must have. It is necessary to provide for extraordinary instruments, similar to DASPO, for those who engage in mafia behaviors, from all points of view, with regard to gambling. Personally, I fear that in future the legislator will, as has been the case several times in the past, resort to rules of exception which provide for the extension of existing concessions. This is another issue that we have, as a movement, strongly cared for because, actually, it creates a lot of problems also in the aspect of the interpretation of the law. In order to adapt the criminal sanctions to the reality of the phenomenon we must make a qualitative leap in the forecast of the measure of the penalty to be imposed against anyone because, as has been noticed in the occasion of the last kidnappings and the last interventions carried out by the Forces of the order, they manage it with banal fines of which those who live their lives according to a mafia system are mocked. This we have tried to bring to the attention of this House, trying to understand in what terms the X Committee's proposal can be valid for the work of the Government. We have already voted in favour of the resolution in the House and we are doing it firmly now here in the Senate hoping that it will really give satisfaction to the work done and to the confidence that the Senate is giving the government on this specific subject. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-748.ana.u18	I address the greetings of the Assembly to students and teachers of the State Higher Institute of Caravaggio in San Gennaro Vesuviano, in the province of Naples, who are following the work of the Senate. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-748.ana.u19	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-748.ana.u20	You have the right to do so. (Brusio). GIOVANARDI (GAL (GS, PPI, M, Id, E-E, MPL)). Mr President, I would like to propose a half-hour suspension of work, or that study and in-depth seminars on the Constitutional Court ruling be taken outside the Chamber.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-748.ana.u21	You're right, Senator Giovanardi. Let us say that the news that is being discussed has its relevance; however, it cannot overlap with the work of the Senate that is continuing. Therefore, you are right: individual reflections are allowed, collective reflections must take place elsewhere.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-748.ana.u22	Nobody prevents colleagues from continuing outside the Chamber. Those who are concerned at the moment with explanations of vote on the measure against mafia activities are here; those who are interested in deepening other problems, rightly, take them out.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-748.ana.u23	In any case, a speaker like you will be able to interrupt, by the force of the arguments, any hut.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-748.ana.u24	GIOVANARDI (GAL (GS, PPI, M, Id, E-E, MPL)). I have no problem; mine wanted to be a help to continue our work to the best. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Colleagues, Senator Giovanardi is right. We know that the subject we are debating today perhaps draws more attention to, but we must listen to your speech. GIOVANARDI (GAL (GS, PPI, M, Id, E-E, MPL)). Mr President, I would like to thank my colleague, Mr Vaccari, for this full-bodied report, which deals with one aspect of the problem, the mafia infiltrations into gambling, but there is a 'but', my fellow senators, because the dynamic through which - as Mr Perrone has explained well - this situation has been reached is something incredible. I remember very well all the debates held in the Chamber and the Senate in the past years on whether or not to open new casinos in Italy compared to the few existing ones, for example in the seaside resorts that required it, such as Riccione, Rimini or other locations, and the absolute refusal of the parliamentarians to open new gambling houses, justified by the fact that in the meantime gambling was increasing and, above all, organised crime was given space. Now we are faced with a series of passages, never discussed and deepened by Parliament, which have succeeded surreptitiously through the various financial laws - the fault of the center-right and centre-left governments - which, by circumventing the traditional refusal of Parliament to open any new gambling house in Italy, have basically created thousands of new gambling houses in all the Italian municipalities. This is the reality we are dealing with today: a reality of gambling that has expanded in an unlimited way, creating the disasters we know. The diagnosis is merciless: it shows that there are pathologies related to the expanding game, families ruined by gambling, suicides related to gambling, organized crime that dominates it within these granting mechanisms or not. In the face of this situation, what mechanisms are being put in place to solve the problem? (Followed by Mr Giovanardi) Mr Perrone, for example, spoke of sanatories, but the sanatories made by governments, even by the last Executives, do not solve the problem of crime; rather, they help those who, working in the shadows and failing to comply with the rules governing gambling, have made black money, which is the moment when organized crime itself manages to introduce itself and obtain the greatest profits and profits. It is okay to say that we need more police control and that we may need to increase the penalties, but we need to limit the infection and agree with the Constitutional Court. It has been recalled by my colleague Albano that the Constitutional Court has stated that it is right that governments and public administrations restrict the organization and management of the public games entrusted in concession, in order to guarantee a particularly high level of consumer protection and master the risks related to this sector, thus allowing us to introduce new and greater restrictions to the game, explicitly declaring that the prevailing public interests are not in the profits of the managers or in the collection that the State does on the profits of the managers, but in the contrast to the spread of the irregular or illegal game, in the protection of the security, the public order and the consumers, especially the minor ones of age, and in the fight against the infiltrations of the organized crime in the field. Well, where are these strict restrictions? It has been recalled by many colleagues in the debate that the State, until the 2000s, had a very clear position on the issue of gambling: there are four or five casinos in Italy, which were born for historical reasons in marginal and border areas, and that is enough; gambling as such does not legalize it and the possibility of accessing gambling to anyone is not spread. That was Parliament's public position. Now we have come to a diametrically opposite position, so we have moved to the spread of gambling everywhere and frankly, colleagues, it seems impossible to me that with the recipes used in the report, which are right, we can tackle the problem and give an adequate response to both the infiltrations of organized crime and the problem of pathologies that arise from gambling. Then I see that the House is debating a similar proposal in the field of drug addiction and drugs which, in order to solve the problem of illegality and drug and cannabis dealing, says to legalize and create thousands of points in Italy where drugs can be consumed. Well, I hope it doesn't go away, but if it is approved, in a few years' time we will be wondering how we can prevent all these airplanes where drugs are legally consumed from being prey to organised crime. It is clear that if we make what is or has been illegal legal, all we can do is create a culture ground for crime. I still remember when, in the second half of the nineties, the operators of the machines asked to allow the game of skill, the one for which who, playing five, ten or twenty minutes, totaled a certain score, won the bear or the consummation. We have gone from that timid attempt to protect the game of skill to the fact that in every bar in Italy there are the machines, that they are managed by the mafias, that impose them to the managers. Then I read that it turns out that thousands of these machines are illegal because no one was able to control whether they were actually connected to the station that monitored the games. In this regard, it seems to me that there are some proposals, even intelligent ones. I refer to that of my colleague, Mr Endrizzi, of the Five Star Movement. It will also be radical, but the proposal provides, since we are in the era of computer science, that those who want to gamble require a personal card, with photos, with the possibility of setting a ceiling of expenditure, with traceable flows, prohibiting their access to minors. In this way, you would give yourself the chance to play, but under a control that would make black and money disappear. Some will say that those who do not want to settle in that way will use the illegal game, but the illegal game will always be an infinitely lower percentage of the legal game, which ruins many families and people. The emergency was not born with the illegal game: when there were four or five casinos in Italy and there was a phenomenon of illegality and submerged betting, it involved a very small percentage of the population. Now the numbers are about millions and millions of people who are addicted. Even, among young people there is a terrifying percentage of people who fall into the network of the legal game because they have it at home. They are induced to play just by the capillarity of opportunities to gamble and by legality, because no one can say not to do so, since it is legal. With these considerations, I shall abstain on the resolution, although I agree with what is written here. The problem is what it doesn't say. If, in the face of such a serious phenomenon from the general and particular point of view, as a grazing ground and an increase in mafia activities, it is proposed only a further regulation of the existing and some more attention to criminal phenomena and not - instead - a radical measure that - as the Constitutional Court says - greatly restricts the possibility of access to the game, we will not get a spider out of the hole. These are the reasons why I shall abstain on the motion for a resolution tabled.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-748.ana.u25	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-748.ana.u26	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-748.ana.u27	FALANGA (ALA-SCLP). Mr President, the report has also been signed by me in the Anti-Mafia Commission and it is clear that I have thus taken on the responsibility of sharing what is contained in it. There were those who asked me whether we would still be voting in favour of this report this morning. This question, to be honest, contains an insult to a twofold aspect: the subjective one, because it calls into question the coherence of myself and my colleagues in the Group and, on the other hand, it is assumed that we can use the issue of combating crime as a matter of convenience. The report drawn up by the Commission and - I repeat - which I have signed thoroughly and convincingly deepens the relationship, including potential, between the activities of criminal organisations and the play, whether lawful or illegal. I do not think that I am bored by retracing the issues which have been dealt with extensively by my colleagues in the Commission, but also with the help of members of the judiciary - and therefore experts - of representatives of the entrepreneurs concerned and so on. It is clear that, like all the expanding economic activities, the game has formed and will form the subject of the attention of organised crime, that - let us not forget - it is always in search of those sectors of the lawful economy in which to re-use the proceeds of the most explicitly criminal activities such as - for example - drug trafficking - to which Senator Giovanardi referred - extortive activities, smuggling and counterfeiting. Moreover, with specific reference to the game, there is a further peculiarity consisting of the particular suitability of the control of companies dedicated to the collection of betting to carry out functions of money laundering the result of illegal activities. We know that bets are mostly made in cash and cash are paid out. There are, yes, limits to bets and payments, but the splitting of the games makes them easily circumventable. In this sense, the conclusions reached by the Commission on the need to strengthen anti-money laundering measures through the effective traceability of winnings, including by means of techniques, are shared - it is not appropriate for me to dwell on them, having explained them extensively to the experts in the X Committee - in order to reduce the risk of winnings being collected by someone other than the player. In the end, that's the point: the winning is attributed to those who have an illegal money holding and with the winning, perhaps by Gennaro Esposito, can clean up the money in his coffers. I do not think we can fail to share what the authors of the report have written about the absolute need to limit the excessive proliferation of gambling points, and this in two respects. On the one hand, the exorbitant number of gaming centres makes it objectively more difficult to carry out sufficiently detailed and rigorous controls by the various competent authorities, such as municipal or local police, finance guard, monopoly administration; on the other hand, while there is a real strong and widespread demand for gaming, the absence of adequate remuneration margins is a first warning signal for money laundering. It cannot escape, in fact, that there are areas, even central, of our cities in which the saracinesche, even contiguous, of normal shops have given way to betting rooms or other points of play in various titles, in apparent overlap between them. The report rightly stresses the risks of electronic gambling, because it may be carried out abroad by means of computer-based artifacts or, in any case, because of the even greater anonymity that distinguishes it. In short, the Commission's work can only be said, of course, to be welcome, both in terms of the recognition of the existing situation and the identification of the prospects for action. I think I can also welcome the overall approach of work which, by escaping the simplistic demonization of an entire economic sector, is able to choose an effective and truly proactive language. And this is also because, colleagues, while remaining the fight against ludopathy, as he said - I rarely quote, but in this case it is fitting - the well-known playwright George Bernard Shaw, "the man does not stop playing because he gets old, but he gets old because he stops playing". In the light of these considerations, our vote on this report is in favour because - as I have already said - we share its approach, its content and its prospects. We shared it when I submitted my signature, we still share it today, as we continue to vote in favour of everything we share, regardless of our position in the Senate. This is a style from which we do not think we are moving away, and it is because of this consistency that we also approve today of the report which has been put to the attention and the vote of this House. [[Applause from the ALA-SCCLP Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-748.ana.u28	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-748.ana.u29	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-748.ana.u30	TORRISI (AP (Ncd-CpI)). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the Anti-Mafia Parliamentary Commission approved on 6 July 2016 the report drawn up by the appropriate Committee, chaired by Senator Vaccari - which deserves to be applauded for its work - which has been entrusted with the analysis of mafia and criminal infiltrations into lawful and illegal gambling. A thorough examination of the various issues related to the gaming sector was carried out, thanks also to the contributions that emerged during a wide range of hearings with members of the judiciary, police forces and various state administrations, experts and associations. The Commission's work has made it possible to analyse in depth the phenomenon of criminal infiltration into lawful and illegal gambling, focusing both on aspects more directly linked to social and health consequences, such as pathological gambling dependence, and on proposals for more efficient, effective and up-to-date measures to prevent and combat the action of common or mafia crime in the sector, for money laundering or illegal profits. It is now a fact that mob penetration no longer concerns only traditional business sectors, but also those of recent development, represented precisely by the game and betting, the management of slot machines and online sportsbooking. Clearly, the gaming sector is of great interest to mafia-type crime because of the possibility of realising, through the direct and indirect management of the companies included in this sector, large revenues, including through the recycling and reinvestment of capital coming from traditional criminal activities; all this reducing to a minimum the risk of incurring in the grip of the repressive activity of the police. To give us a clearer idea of the big money tour in this sector, just remember that, referring to the only legitimate gambling, that is the public games, and therefore lawful and managed by the State, there is an annual turnover of about 90 billion euros. This report has the merit of pointing out that the smell of money must be followed in particular, because mafias have the main objective of recycling, earning and consolidating themselves in the legal and illegal economy. A dossier of the association "Libera" has reported 49 clans that control methodically the lawful and illicit traffic that passes through gambling throughout Italy. The report underlines the vertical increase in the phenomenon of the game, also favoured by the strong increase of the supply, with a consequent increase of both the percentage of the consumption of the families destined for the game and of the state revenues. The same also emphasizes that the expansion of the lawful game goes hand in hand with a significant increase of the illicit one, as some of the players are attracted by the illegal offers, seemingly more attractive, and many of them end up in the throes of loan sharks. Finally, a special chapter of the report is devoted to the infiltration of organised crime into football clubs, where entry into lower-series companies is seen, with the subsequent imposition of lace on local entrepreneurs in the form of sponsorship contracts. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the public gaming sector in recent years has been characterised by a strong expansion, also thanks to the recovery and emergence of large market spaces, once the exclusive prerogative of lawlessness. In this general scenario, the prevention and repression of the phenomena of illegality and abuse in the sector fully affect the responsibilities of the Financial Guard, as an economic and financial police, since in the matter it is necessary to protect, at the same time, more interests, namely: the tax revenue deriving from the collection, with particular regard to the taxes of the sector, as well as the taxes direct and indirect; the market, in order to put an embarrassment to the unfair competition exercised to the damages of the operators honest by unauthorized subjects; the consumers, who must be protected from illegal, insecure and without any guarantee. The activity of organised crime focuses mainly on entertainment equipment, but the strong operation of the cosche is also recorded in clandestine betting and online poker. Further form of unlawful conduct is the abusive collection of bets through the data transmission centers connected to foreign bookmakers without concession or exploiting remote channels through the opening of gaming accounts on foreign websites managed by operators not authorized to operate in our country. Finally, there is the offer of online gambling, which mainly affects the phenomenon of the presence in the network of countless casinos and other similar sites not authorized to operate in Italy. In this regard, also thanks to the collaboration of the Finance Guard, and in particular of the Special Technology Fraud Unit, the Customs and Monopolies Agency has inhibited more than 6,200 unauthorized online gaming sites. For example, I recall the important operation carried out in Reggio Calabria, in which an association for mafia criminals was brought to light consisting of subjects affiliated to the 'ndrangheta, which, using foreign companies under Maltese law, has abused, for a long time, the activity of gambling and betting on the national territory, through a branched network of data transmission centers connected to foreign bookmakers without concession to operate in Italy: 41 were the orders of custody carried out, with the seizure of 45 companies, 1,500 commercial points and 82 national and international websites. Mr President, the central part of the report is reserved for operational proposals aimed at preventing the presence of criminal organisations in the field of gambling, by further strengthening the measures already provided for in existing legislation through actions, including regulatory ones, which are appropriate precisely to continue to counter the phenomenon of infiltration of mafias into the phenomenon of gambling. A first group of proposals concerns the revision of the system of concessions and licences, in particular: the extension of offences which affect the possibility of obtaining concessions and licences (e.g. self-recycling, political-mafia electoral exchange, undue perception of public disbursements, concussion by induction), including crimes committed abroad and cases where interdictive sanctions or prohibition of contracting with the public administration have been imposed; the extension of the requirements of anti-mafia law to dealers of online distance gambling networks, operators and third parties in charge of equipment and the owners, producers and importers of equipment; and the provision of the obligation to grant or authorise police, with the subjection to the same controls, including for operators of companies based abroad. Continuing, a second series of interventions concerns the increase of penalties for crimes related to the carrying out of illegal activity in the field of gambling and betting, also in order to allow the use of telephone interceptions and to extend the limitation period. A third group of proposals relates to administrative sanctions: from forfeiture in the case of illegal conduct - the report assumes a kind of DASPO of the quaestor for betting rooms and bingo rooms - to mandatory confiscation of equipment used to commit the crime, to financial penalties for those who market machines that do not comply with the legal requirements. Specific attention should also be paid to the responsibilities of dealers vis-à-vis gaming point operators who commit breaches of existing legislation. A fourth group of actions specifically concerns the strengthening of anti-money laundering measures, including through a wider identification of those who play (e.g. through a special card) and suspicious transactions (e.g. online gambling), in line with EU-level indications (see the latest 2015 Anti-money laundering Directive). Finally, the report stresses the need to increase the quality of legal checks, through coordination of administrative and tax checks carried out by the various state bodies, a greater exchange of sensitive information with the judiciary and the use of more advanced IT tools. The report also focuses on the actions taken by the State, Regions and Municipalities to discourage the phenomenon of gambling, reaffirming the need to ensure the active participation of local authorities in the development of strategies to combat ludopathy, i.e. dependence on gambling, and to assess the social impact of gambling in individual territorial realities. In this context, particular attention is drawn to the usefulness of encouraging controls in the sector through a reduction in the overall supply (particularly in the most "risky" areas) and also to the current "dusting" of the exercises in which gambling can be practised, to be pursued in parallel with a greater "qualification" of the exercises themselves. Therefore, the commitment provided by local administrations in terms of prevention, recovery and supervision should be supported with resources adapted to the scale of the phenomenon. In the debate in the House and in the debate in this House, the urgency was reiterated - also in the light of the most recent judicial investigations that confirmed the strong rooting of organised crime in the field of both illegal and lawful gambling - to adopt a number of legislative measures in terms of both prevention and repression of illegal behaviour. Also the Government, in stressing the commitment made by the Forces of the order to counter every form of illicit, has agreed, in particular, on the opportunity of interventions regarding restrictions of the requirements for participation in contests or procedures to public evidence and for the granting of concessions and authorizations in the matter of public games in the hands of dealers of the online networks of collection of game at distance, as well as the widening of the obstacle crimes for participation in the contests, as well as the tightening of the penal, criminal and administrative apparatus in order to repress in more effective way all the illicits. A further important tool for combating illegality is the new European anti-money laundering directive. I shall conclude, Mr President, by stressing the importance of the report we are debating. It sets out very clearly, and in depth, a well-established situation, almost a new picture of our country. My hope is that action will be taken quickly and in cohesion to stop the proliferation of the illegal game described so far, to eradicate its phenomenon. For these reasons, on behalf of the Group of the People's Area, I declare that I support the report proposed and approved by the Anti-Mafia Commission and I announce that we are voting in favour of the resolution we have signed, from which a new unitary policy of the State can arise in the fight against an increasingly large and increasingly difficult and dangerous phenomenon to be curbed. [[Applause from the AP Group (Ncd-CpI).]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-748.ana.u31	We greet the students of the Liceo Classico Statale (Gian) Francesco Porporato in Pinerolo, in the province of Turin, who are attending our works. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-748.ana.u32	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-748.ana.u33	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-748.ana.u34	GAETTI (M5S). Mr President, when we in the Anti-Mafia Commission Bureau approved the Committee on Legal and Illegal Play last winter, we in the 5 Star Movement were particularly pleased because we hoped to clarify many points. We were a little disappointed when the work was set up for the purpose of formulating appropriate legislative proposals that are part of the current legislative process in this area in the relevant parliamentary committees. We thought, in fact, that in addition to the investigations on the Mafia organizations that acted on the lawful game and obviously, in a totalitarian way, there was the need if not to investigate at least what were the relationships between the concessionary companies, the mafia crime and politics, also because it hadn't been long since December 2013. At that time in Parliament things happened to say the least embarrassing, an opportunity that allowed the newspapers to make a retrospective analysis of the world of games, bringing out very interesting reports. It is not possible here to retrace all those events, but few elements are necessary to make our disappointment clear. The big business began on January 31, 2000, when in the Official Journal were published the modes for the participation to the public enchantment for the custody in concession of the management of the game of the Bingo. Among the first protagonists of the deal were the Formula bingo (failed in 2004), which was located in the same building - think a bit - of the Italian European foundation, and the Ludotech (later failed in 2003), participated by three DS area companies (Beta Immobiliare, Pielleffe and Pluris) and by two giants of the Emilian cooperative world (Coopservice and the Financial Consortium for the promotion and cooperative development). Meanwhile, many party federations entered the business. According to the view of the Chamber of Commerce reported in the book "Sottobosco" by Gatti and Sansa (editions Chiarelettere, 2012), the federations that participated even nominally in the deal were many: among others, Ancona, Bari, Bologna, Modena, just to remember some. [[Senator Albano's comments.]] After the Bingo Rooms, the Scratch Scratch came, the slot machines, the SuperEnalotto and the latest devilry. But the sensitivity of the left centre remained intact; if anything, it was shared by the Berlusconi governments and the center-right coalitions, responsible for further concessions. It is no coincidence that Sisal, the company that manages sports betting and the second company in the game market, was in the hands of a man from the Olive tree who had good relations with the Horseman: Augusto Fantozzi, former Minister of Commerce in the first Prodi Government, then Alitalia's commissioner wanted by Berlusconi and finally, since 2010, head of the gaming society. Sisal, however, like Lottomatica, is one of the sponsors of Vedrò, think tank of Prime Minister Enrico Letta. But in this story there is not only the center-left. Of course, the case of relations between the PdL, the League and the Atlantis World holding company, founded by Francesco Corallo, son of the mafioso Gaetano Corallo and State dealership, is the most resounding. The Atlantis (controlled by the Bplus group) had as contact the deputy pidiellino Amedeo Laboccetta and obtained loans from the People's Bank of Milan, thanks to the president and man of trust of Giulio Tremonti, Massimo Ponzellini, then arrested with the same Coral and his right arm, Antonio Cannalire (a shareholder also of the Jackpot Game, of which Marco Dell'Utri was a member, son of the Senator of the PdL Marcello Dell'Utri) in an investigation for association to delinquere. But the facts of the last few months are disconcerting. It should be understood what happened on 19 December 2013, when an amendment proposed by NCD, but also voted by PD, provided that the State could reduce transfers to local authorities that had adopted regulations to limit the spread of slot machines, videolotteries and the like. In addition, the amendment was addressed to concessionaires who had not adhered to the sanatorium provided for in the IMU decree. It would also be interesting to understand why the Government let the delegation given by Law No 23 of 2014. And let's not talk about the stability law of 2015, which gives the opportunity to regularize the position for those who offer bets with cash winnings that are not connected to the national totalizer: to understand better, this was a great pardon. But do you realize how many gifts have been given to these dealers? And, think a bit, that the colonel of the Guard of Finance Rapetto, expert in cyber scam, who fined for a total of 98 billion the ten concessionaires, in 2012 resigned or was induced to resign. I didn't get that. The most resounding development is, however, the one that emerged in December 2016, i.e. a short time ago: in Corallo's computer there is a receipt of a bank transaction of 2.4 million euros in favour of the Tulliani to amend Article 21 of Decree No. 78 of 2009 (signed by Soglia), which offers additional facilities and in particular the automatic grant of nine years for those who had already been authorized to install video-lotters and the possibility to use their rights as collateral for financing operations. In this way, Corallo obtains a loan of 150 million euros from the BPM and manages to realize yet another investment at almost zero cost. As you can see, the Anti-Mafia Commission, which - I repeat - is a Commission of Inquiry, could have understood how these dealers, involved in many investigations of the anti-Mafia district direction, manage to interfere with parties, as it finances them, how it interacts with parliamentarians convincing them to submit very profitable amendments for concessionaries. If such reports do not disappear, it will never be possible for this majority to legislate for the resolution of the problem, so much so that in this resolution there is no reference to the transparency of relations between parties and dealers, such as, for example, the prohibition of financing. The flagrant implementing decree published on August 8 in the Official Journal, which blocks from 7 a.m. to 10 p.m. the advertising on national televisions, allowing it on local TVs, specialized media and platforms - advertising money is vital - appears to be a mockery. The state thinks it's worth it, as it takes about 8 billion, but we don't know for sure the number of pathological players. So much for the LEAs! Estimates range from 300,000 to 1.2 million. You do not know the health costs, you do not know the social costs (the number of divorces, the number of suicides often after having often annihilated the family, as happened a few weeks ago, and the educational abandonment of children). The report takes into account important aspects; five chapters and two recommendations well illustrated by the rapporteur, and which we also shared in the anti-mafia Commission, which is often shared and of common sense, although some might be much more stringent as on the use of cash, as Senator Endrizzi explained in the general discussion. As a doctor I would say that in this measure we think about the cure, but we do not say a word about prevention. To be clear, it's as if lung cancer therapies are indicated here, but no one says - or has had the courage to say - that you have to stop smoking. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] Sociological, behavioral, health, communicative, advertising, fiscal aspects are completely absent, as it is right that it is in a report from the Anti-Mafia Commission. But to believe that the content of the report can be the milestone to fight the lawful and illegal game and commit the government to solving the problems highlighted seems really excessive. We want to use a good work done by the Anti-Mafia Commission, which has its own purpose and purpose, and therefore is partial, to make it believe that the problems of mob infiltration in the game will be solved, increasing controls. Instead, the wrongdoing and mischief are fought by reducing the amount of money around the game. And the reduction of the places of play, under discussion in the State-Regions Conference, is very little. And that the approach you have proposed is inadequate, paradoxically, is proof of this since it emerges from the Commission's report. The fact is that an increasing supply of lawful games by the state does not correspond to a decrease in illegal games run by the mafias. Therefore, we contest the instrumentality of the provision and, for the reasons set out above, I declare the abstention vote of the 5 Star Movement Group. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-748.ana.u35	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-748.ana.u36	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-748.ana.u37	MALAN (FI-PdL XVII). Mr President, the Forza Italia Group fully shares the aims of the Commission's work. It is extremely important to exercise all necessary control in order to prevent, in the field of gambling, from prospering the mafias and criminal associations that see in this affair, certainly lucrative and from the great involvement of money, and in particular of the liquid one, an excellent opportunity to develop own traffic. I want to stress that at this stage we do not deal with the phenomenon of gambling in general, with its reflexes, with so-called ludopathy and addictions. This is another problem, independent, on which many members of the Forza Italia Group have carried out numerous interventions and presented numerous initiatives. That's not today's topic. Today's topic is: because there is regular and lawful gambling, what are the interventions and what is the most appropriate behavior to avoid the infiltrations of criminal organizations. So, in this area - as I said - we are certainly in favour of strict control to avoid such infiltrations. We are certainly in favour of controlling and tracing winnings, of course above certain reasonable sums, in order to avoid bureaucraticising this sector too. The more bureaucrat we make, in fact, the more attractive we make clandestine gambling. The more the State withdraws from the prize pool of all the lawful games, generally managed by it; the more limitations, classifications and all sorts of harassment are introduced against those who gamble, without making moral considerations, people will hardly stop practicing gambling, but on the contrary they will practice it in a clandestine way and, therefore, with the almost certainty of doing so only for the benefit of those criminal organizations that we want to unanimously oppose. Therefore, rather than extending the prescription and increasing bureaucratic penalties, controls and harassment, which are suggested as solutions in this document, we are oriented towards the punctuality and systematicity of controls. It is useless to threaten penalties, perhaps even disproportionate, with the crime committed - there is a risk of hitting poor people who have really done little wrong, rather than hitting real criminals, the real big organizations - if then the crimes are not actually prosecuted. We need controls. I have also read a passage in the report where it is said that the pulverization - as it is called - of places where gambling can be practiced makes controls more difficult. One cannot claim to change the reality of a sector until it is decided to outlaw it; one cannot think of influencing the dynamics of a sector, which is, however, an economic activity, depending on its controlability. At that point we should make the same reasoning about almost all other sectors of the economy. We are therefore of the opinion that the state must not vex citizens, must not treat them as alleged criminals from the start, but must try to prosecute criminals, by making controls that do not bother people who respect the law, but are effective in verifying violations of the law. There are far more effective 100 controls that may lead to fifty sanctions - and they must not be so spectacular as to make headlines - than to impose a sanction occasionally on a poor man, who at that point feels rightly punished, victim of the bitter fate, because this does not solve the problem. How many testimonies have we had, even from television broadcasts, of playrooms totally without controls? I would remind you that a few years ago - I also asked a question - Catania had several times been told, to whom it is necessary, the presence in a room of minors clearly engaged in gambling; the lack of connection of machines to the circuit that allows control; as well as an osmosis between a playroom of fun - without the money bets - and another room where instead the bets took place with exchange of money. Well, no intervention was carried out by the authority, except once when - by chance - it was evidently preceded by a communication, so in that same place, which finally went to check out, suddenly all the players were driven away, the machines detached from their electrical connections and turned against the wall to show that they had been unused for years. Systematic controls are needed: it is necessary to check that the machines are connected and to check the data, because it is useless to have oceanic databases if the controls are not carried out. These things only serve someone who might want to hit an individual, and then, among the million data, you search for those that are needed to hit someone and, if they are not found, then you do nothing. That is not how it should work in a rule of law: there must be regular controls; it must be ensured that children do not actually play and are not in play areas; effective action must be taken in respect of the freedom of citizens. If one day someone thinks of abolishing gambling, it will be necessary to find the revenue to replace it, but it will be another matter. While it is allowed, however, it is not appropriate to have an approach for which there is a risk of not hitting the real criminals and the big organizations and it makes life more difficult for those who practice legitimate gambling pushing it towards the underground one, which is all in the hands of the criminal organizations. Our vote in favour, therefore, must be made clear in its meaning: we are in favour of fighting in every way mafia infiltrations, money laundering, the violation of the specific rules on gambling that concern minors and also of putting in place policies that try not to favour or reduce ludopathy, but we are not in favour of the policy of hypercontrol, of the hyperburocratization of threatened and unenforced penalties. That is why we are not marrying the whole report and not even the resolution. Our vote is in favour because we share the intention to combat the infiltration of criminal organizations into gambling. [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-748.ana.u38	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-748.ana.u39	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-748.ana.u40	MIRABELLI (PD). Mr President, Parliament has often discussed gambling in this parliamentary term. We discussed the fight against gambling-related diseases and the prohibition of advertising. A number of draft laws have been initiated in the relevant Commissions. The same Government - I would like to remind those who have obviously been distracted in recent years - has started a rethink of the rules compared to the past, choosing to intervene to decrease both the demand for game ( intervening on advertising) and the offer of game (reduction the number of slots in public places, imposing the connection in remote access to avoid abuse, as has been said just now). As Senator Giovanardi wished, we have begun to reduce both the demand and the offer of play. The stability law of 2015 - I would like to remind you - in addition to establishing these first norms, entrusted the State-Regions Conference with the task of agreeing on a more comprehensive reorganization of the sector, and then translating those choices into a ministerial decree. It was a right choice that we claim and that can and must translate in this last part of the legislature into a concrete reform that values the great work done with the contribution of municipalities, regions and associations. On the other hand, it is clear to everyone that only an overall reorder of the rules governing the game can respond to the many problems related to it, give certainty and transparency to all parties, but above all direct all choices towards clear and non-controversial objectives. Continuing to intervene in an impromptu way on one or the other aspect is not enough; it serves - I believe the State-Regions Conference is well advanced - a rule to reorder the sector that reduces the demand and the supply of gambling and therefore provides for a reduction of the state's revenue from gambling. I want to say this very clearly: it is clear to the majority and to the government that the state revenue from gambling must be reduced, otherwise there would be no point in talking about reducing the demand and the supply of gambling. We need to intervene on the prevention and treatment of diseases related to the game. The question we are debating today is within every hypothesis of central reordering and, at the same time, without a reordering that gives transparent rules and responsibilities it becomes more difficult to guarantee legality in an area marked by a still too large submerged and attention from the organized crime that, as many investigations show - it has been said several times - sees in the game an opportunity for recycling, wear and more. Just to put the issue of legality at the heart of the reform of the game, the Anti-Mafia Commission has produced a report that the Senate, after the House, will adopt by committing the Government to take it into account in the reform. I am not taking back all the content of the report that Senator Vaccari has already explained, which I thank for coordinating the work in the anti-mafia committee. The report has the merit of producing an important document, with the contribution of the working group coordinated by Mr Vaccari and the consultants of the Anti-Mafia Commission, which I thank. We've involved expertise, scholars, and law enforcement representatives in the field. I just want to point out a few points, because many things have already been said. As for the first, all investigations show an interest of organised crime in the game and the phenomena of usury and money laundering. But there is not only the illegal game, but also the attempt - often successful, as the investigations tell us - to enter directly into the legal game chain and, in particular, in the management companies. What has been done and done is not enough, we must say so. [[Brusio.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-748.ana.u41	Excuse me, Senator Mirabelli. I call at least those who are close to the Commission stand to lower their voices.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-748.ana.u42	Please, Senator Mirabelli. MIRABELLI (PD). From this point of view, it has not yet been done enough to secure the supply chain of the game. What has been done is not enough. The controls implemented, which there are, are not sufficient, as well as the controls on the money that feed the different companies in the gaming chain. The report contains many suggestions, also contained in the motion for a resolution, which I believe must be binding on the Government. Dear Gaetti, if these proposals are included in the document of the State-Regions Conference and become a decree, as provided by the law of stability, we will certainly have taken a great step forward. It is a question of increasing the grounds for opposition. There will be many more reasons than today why you will not be able to enter and participate in management companies and dealers. There will be many more reasons to prevent neophyte societies from having concessions or managing a part of gambling. The responsibilities of all parties will be much clearer, starting with the dealers themselves, and above all there will be the tools to intervene with investigations, increase penalties and allow the use of interceptions. I think there is a lot to be said, and I'm sorry we didn't see each other. I repeat that it will really be very important if the Government and the State-Regions Conference receive these indications. Let me turn to the second point. Those who, in the face of this, tend to criminalize an entire sector fail and make a mistake even those who want to question the state reserve on the game. It would be devastating to remove the state reserve on the game. The protectionist road is wrong and would make the situation worse, but there is no doubt that - the experience tells us - the idea that legalization would have reduced the space for lawlessness and that it is enough to bring out the submerged to solve problems is wrong. It is therefore right to bring out the submerged, but much more is needed to ensure legality and combat crime. Coordination tools are needed between the different law enforcement agencies, city officials and administrative offices of the municipalities; more controls, databases and centralisation of information are needed; the same interdictive measures are needed for public procurement. Finally, I would like to make a third point. Equipment to regulate online gaming is another frontier, the other challenge we have to face. It is clear that it is more difficult to put in charge controls on the network, as it is more permeable to the interventions of criminality and organized crime. It is clear that more effective instruments must be put in place to control the capital invested there. We need new investigative instruments and, above all, an effort by the whole of the European Community to build new legislation. I'll finish where I started. I think that tonight we will achieve the result we have achieved in the House and in the Commission: an approval of this resolution without any votes against. I hope this will happen. I think this would be a confirmation of Parliament's willingness to address the whole issue, a stimulus for the Government and the State-Regions Conference for the reordering. There are conditions for doing so, as Mr Vaccari said, and it would be a mistake to lose the opportunity and leave the legislature without taking it. We are well on track: we can immediately decrease the slot machines by 30 percent, removing them from bars and restaurants; not in 2019, as expected by the 2015 budget. Other than taking away funding from those who forbid slots! Let's get the slots out of the bars and restaurants. It is possible to regulate the halls and the game by protecting people: prevent and cure. Not to take such an important thing! Today, gambling pathologies are part of the LEA, which did not happen before. I don't understand how people neglect this innovation. This document can better combat organised crime, better ensure legality and transparency, if the Government implements it. We will also vote yes for this reason, to approve the work done, the proposed measures, but also to push the Government and the Regions to soon conclude the long path of confrontation and discussion that has engaged so many subjects and these same Parliamentary Assemblies, to arrive at a measure that puts an end to a long but useful discussion, producing a real reorganization of the sector. [[Applause from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-748.ana.u43	We greet the delegation of officials of the Ministry of Transport of the Republic of Iran who are attending our work from the forums. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-748.ana.u44	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-748.ana.u45	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-748.ana.u46	GAETTI (M5S). We call for the vote to be taken by simultaneous ballot by electronic means.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-748.ana.u47	I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of motion for a resolution No 1 tabled by Senator Mirabelli and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B).
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-748.ana.u48	The next item is the vote on the resignation of Senator Vacciano. Senator Vacciano, by letter dated 14 December 2016, reiterated his resignation, already rejected in the sessions of 17 February 2015, 16 September 2015 and 13 July 2016. He asked Senator Vacciano to intervene. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-748.ana.u49	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I am only taking a few minutes away from you. I was tempted not to take this paper with me this time, but I was afraid it would betray my emotion. I will not tell you the circumstances that lead me to ask again for a vote on my resignation: in two years they have not changed, at most they have strengthened. I will not add any more words, partly because in the past - and I am sorry - some of my words have been exploited. I was also sorry to hear, again in the last debate, about pressure or constraints on me. I have clearly explained to this House, as anyone in private or publicly asked for confirmation of my intentions, that I would be the first to denounce even the slightest pressure and I would have done so publicly in this House and in the courts. However, in this experience which has lasted for four years I have learned that this too is part of the game of politics and that we have to be there in some way. I am stealing these minutes just to thank my colleagues with whom I have worked in recent years, particularly those of the 6th Commission. Although our positions were sometimes distant light years away, I think mutual respect has never been lacking; above all respect for the work of others, even if it went in a completely opposite direction to one's own ideas. I understand that this may seem trivial, but I think it should be stressed, because I am convinced that we can clash on issues and opinions, even hard and sticking to our own positions, maintaining mutual respect, as well as cooperation on shared issues, without compromising our own coherence. I should like to end by saying to all of you, particularly the colleagues with whom I started this adventure, my best wishes for the continuation of your experience and beyond. For each of us this is a parenthesis, which for someone lasts longer and for others lasts less. The best wish, which I address to all of you, remains what was done to me before entering this institution: always have the courage and determination to pursue your own ideas and choices, especially the uncomfortable ones. Thank you for these minutes and I leave you to the vote. [[Applause from the M5S Group and Senator De Pietro.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-748.ana.u50	We shall now proceed to the vote on the resignation presented by Senator Vacciano.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-748.ana.u51	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote. [[Comments from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-748.ana.u52	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-748.ana.u53	FUCKSIA (Mixed). Mr President, Senator Vacciano has understood that perhaps politics is not so convenient or that at least "where there is no taste there is loss". Beyond this, I have always defended my colleague Vacciano, because I esteem him as a capable and also serious person, but I believe that this self-expelling crusade from the 5 Star Movement in a certain sense appears too rigidly zealous with the rules of a party that - it is worth remembering - supports the mandate bond, which is contrary to our constitutional dictation, that Constitution as instrumentally defended in words as it debased in spirit and in fact; in this way, moreover, at the same time we forget the responsibility for the consensus demonstrated by the citizens who have chosen him as their representative and spokesperson in the institutions. In my opinion, in the senseless zeal, more than genuine dedication, always prevails a kind of pedantry interested, which looks more to its own satisfaction than to the good of its neighbor. In fact, in the long run this continuous commitment to the Senate on the issue of its resignation ends up harming the citizens themselves, as it forces us employees of the citizens to stop our work in favour of the community, already put to the test by a number of circumstances and factors, to judge the interest and discuss the issues of a single. This escape, but at the same time relaunching in a sort of self-celebration becomes, consciously or unconsciously, a way to be the protagonist and catalyse the attention and time of the whole Parliament. I am disconcerted and despondent in realizing that we are quickly dealing with much more important, direct and binding debates for citizens (such as this morning's debate on the earthquake), we are stifling speeches and leaving room for such ridiculous and irrelevant issues, precisely because we have already discussed them in other forums. I have always defended my colleague, but now I don't do it anymore because of his insistence, this one defending how much worse there is in the 5 Star Movement. It is a few days ago Beppe's statement that those who do not agree with the line of communication can settle elsewhere. This is precisely the demonstration of the absence of democracy and participation, of what was to be, when we said no ideology, a movement neither of the right nor of the left, capable of discussing the substance, where one is worth one. I am referring to all the other things that have been lost and that will be lost, together with the different vision of the warranty notices, as we will soon see with the stop to the two mandates and more. This sort of confusion that Senator Vacciano does between what he is and his jersey, a sort of syneddoche, so the part for everything is worth somewhere, I think it is not acceptable because the jerseys that one wears are worth less and less than people although they seem more and more decisive. Which makes me think that maybe in the underwear (then everyone has his own reasons and personal evaluations can always be wrong) he didn't actually have that motivation or he was looking for anything else. At this point, dear Vacciano, I have so much esteemed you I say that in my opinion, instead, you are wrong and that you reduce yourself to that functional illiteracy promoted and propaganda that leads to speculation on forest guards when the helicopter does not fly (then, after a few days, we find a helicopter that instead flies when it should not fly and we have another accident), that do fleas on nonsense and leave the backgrounds; we find ourselves "give us today our daily misfortune" of the end sitting of Senator Paglini, who every time in a populist way must always solve the misfortunes. There is speculation about pensions and not remembering that the same citizenship income was also financed by a percentage of the pension levy. Or a Di Maio who says he wants to defend the savings of savers, but then he gets angry with the government that gives help to the banks, as if there wasn't a circle coming back. And I also think of the various speculations of hypocrisy and morality, when then false are the reports, false the accusations, heavy the slanders of the citizens, ridiculous the counting of receipts, illusory and dangerous the bufalas spread over the web. Speculation is made on the messages of Civil Protection, but then it does not explain those sent into the account of the mayor Rays directly (those instead are good). There's speculation about vitality, Vacciano. Vacciano, you have a safe place in the bank, so you're not risking anything. But a freelancer, who comes here and interrupts an activity, when he has to support a family, has a reluctance to leave a job for which he has taken years. So even the vitality, today so exploited, had at its origin a different ratio, that of making the parliamentarians free. That the next Member took advantage of it is another speech. But the real point would be that if one wants to reduce the costs of politics and does it well, he does something else. Then let us highlight the funds of the parliamentary groups, that EUR 5,000-6,000 per month for each component that the Group takes and that are not traceable. Then let's say what one does with what he holds, not so much the crumbs that one makes (and everything would be to verify). So let us not complain about the absences of others, when we are the first absent, or the privileges of caste, when the privileges of caste we take them all, up to the room of the nursery in the Senate, which is a beautiful thing and that I would hope in all the companies, everywhere, as at this point also the space for the dog and for the cat. But in fact it had never happened and this privilege was obtained precisely by the 5 Star Movement. So let us look at what happened to Senator Vacciano's request at the sessions of this House, because if he stays here again and we have to do another one, I propose that the sixth (I have also lost count of how many debates we have had), he contribute to the costs of sitting. Vacciano, see, if one wants to do good, he does it without stressing it! You could simply stay at home, also because there are those who are here for a few days and even never, you could devolve, without advertising, your emoluments to activists or good causes. There are so many ways to be useful. You could somehow do good and not feed it, not self-publicize it, you could not stay so rigid in certain schemes and take from the 5 Star Movement what was beautiful. These are the reasons. I can say, however, why I remain, despite the dissent. I stay just to make light, to "break the boxes," surely someone would be happier to keep Vacciano because it is very nice to speak well of everyone, it is beautiful the correct politics and it is nice never to speak ill of anyone, but it changes very little things. I think some of you are more... president. Talk to the presidency, Senator Fucksia. FUCKSIA (Mixed). Excuse me, ma'am, you're right. I think more of some of my former colleagues and some less of them. They rebuked above all the hypocrisy that they condemned in others and then doubly hypocrites in turn. At this point, since this has happened, I say that Vacciano also goes home freely, that he is a hymn to the freedom and responsibility of everyone because it is important that at every moment and in any case of life you do what you feel you have to do and when you are of age and aware you also have the freedom to make mistakes. I repeat that, in my opinion, this is a mistake because you are free to manage yourself but when you give confidence to someone else, when you choose a path, even if it is difficult, even if it implies insult, difficulty and not satisfaction (and we are many to be dissatisfied because it is a difficult time), even if perhaps the motivation may fail, that is the time when, perhaps, our presence is more useful. [[Brusio.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-748.ana.u54	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-748.ana.u55	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-748.ana.u56	Mr Bencini (Misto-Idv). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, give me a "oh" as you did for Senator Fucksia, otherwise I feel uncomfortable. Ladies and gentlemen, especially Giuseppe, we are discussing your resignation for the fourth time. I have already had the opportunity, during recent discussions, to support how little is logical coherence, in my opinion, in the reasoning that derives from the principles that you claim you want to support, and that you attribute to the 5 Star Movement of the origins. This reasoning prompts you to reiterate your request to resign as a Member of Parliament. I will not repeat speeches already made, I will not quote again those sources ascribable to the history of the 5 Star Movement in which it is pointed out that the criticism of Article 67 of the Constitution is after our entry into Parliament and clearly instrumental in order to maintain a strong control over the elected by the stick leader who says that the dissenter goes out and now that we are in the right of arrival threatens the parliamentarians with the non-endidation. You say, however, that it is your personal conviction that it is necessary to resign since you no longer feel that you can be in the Movement in which you were elected. Ask to respect that conviction of yours. You didn't say that today, but between the lines, your justification is always the same. There is a problem, however, Giuseppe: according to my conviction, which is the same as Beppe Grillo before the turning point - an imperative mandate - in Parliament we need honest citizens who are accountable to citizens and therefore free from party or movement leaders. In addition to being honest, they must be capable, a quality that is indispensable for making politics. Skill and honesty rhyme but honesty is a prerequisite for making politics while ability must have it or acquire it and not always who is honest is also capable, unfortunately. I would consider the nation in which the representatives of the citizens resigned without fighting the authoritarian drifts of the leaders, unfortunate that nation in which the only possible response to abuses of power was to give way to more accommodating others. Excuse me, Giuseppe, but your resignation is not the victory of the 5 Star Movement but the concrete manifestation of its failure, or at least of the misrepresentation that has been made of the original principles and sincerely is not a satisfaction that I want to give to the creators of this betrayal. By the way, let us look around: we are at the end of the parliamentary term, there are important measures concerning your Commission, the 6th which deals with finance, in a word the banks and the credit so much debated these days with considerable problems. We all know what your commitment is, such as your expertise in that Commission, also considering your professional history. While it is true that respect for citizens also goes from worrying about the quality of the work done in the institutions, leaving this House a few months after the end of the parliamentary term, being replaced by a person who would not even have time to settle down and understand where he is, it makes no sense at all. No one will force you to go again: probably, for you Miss Italy ends here, as for me and for many others. Almost 1,500 days have passed since the famous footsteps (that is how the Senate's parliamentary assistants define the time); yes, it has been four years since we had the honour to enter the Senate. In these years I believe that you, Giuseppe, have tried to do your duty in the institutions, bringing your ability and committing yourself to implement your knowledge. Having the opportunity to be in politics and in Parliament has made me understand, and I believe it has made you understand, how difficult it is to find shared solutions; in all cases the duty of those who make politics is to dialogue, to find solutions through a democratic confrontation and mediation, aiming at the maximum achievable at that moment. That's why I think that you should commit, perhaps along with other subjects who were trapped in the network of a Movement-Company, to create a pragmatic, free and democratic political force, as should have been - according to the promises made at the beginning of our journey - the 5 Star Movement. Therefore, for the fourth time, Senator Vacciano, I invite you to withdraw your resignation or not to repeat them if they are rejected for the umpteenth time. On the other hand, since the reasons for resignation are always the same, it would be difficult to understand why this House should now change its position. So, even if the vote is secret, I'm definitely against your departure, Senator Vacciano, and I hope the others will vote the same way.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-748.ana.u57	Senator Bencini, perhaps the term "departure" is a bit excessive; there is also a middle way, without reaching extreme positions.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-748.ana.u58	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-748.ana.u59	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-748.ana.u60	BUEMI (Aut (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT)-PSI-MAIE). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I know you do not need my advice, but I am to confirm the vote against the resignation of my colleague, whom we have already expressed in the previous vote on this issue. The problem is certainly not a personal one, but a political one, and political issues must be put forward. The rejection of these resignations is a political act.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-748.ana.u61	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-748.ana.u62	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-748.ana.u63	BIGNAMI (Misto-MovX). Mr President, I did not want to speak, but after what I heard I cannot remain silent. Senator Vacciano is a person, a member of the Senate and has asked for respect, dignity, freedom to speak and freedom to resign. I'm sorry, but this wasn't given to him; someone disrespected him. I just want to apologize to him here; I want to apologize for everything that has been said between the benches, indeed the brains, even if at this moment they are more benches, because after all this time some things are still to be learned. If we were to talk about the obscene proposal that I heard, namely compensation, then I also appeal and want to be compensated for the psychological damage suffered to try to understand the meaning of many of Senator Fucksia's speeches. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-748.ana.u64	Pursuant to Rule 113 (3) of the Rules of Procedure, I refer to the secret ballot on the resignation submitted by Senator Vacciano. Senators for resignation will press the green button at the center of the voting position; opposing senators will press the red button on the right; senators who intend to abstain will press the white button on the left. As this is a secret ballot vote, whatever the choice of vote is made, the light that will turn on will be neutral in colour. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. [[Applause from the PD, Aut (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT) and PSI-MAIE and Misto-Idv Groups]] As they say: next time.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-748.ana.u65	The next item on the agenda is the debate on draft law Nos. 2068, 1001, 1606, 1797 and 2095. He asked the President of the 13th Permanent Commission, Senator Marinello. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-748.ana.u66	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, as we know, the Commissions meeting 1a and 13a have not yet concluded the examination of draft law No 2068 on the agenda; the agenda for which the measure was also put by a vote of the House at yesterday's sitting. The conclusion of the examination in the referee requires the approval of some amending proposals that meet the financial compatibility statements, formulated by the Budget Committee on the text approved by the Chamber of Deputies, pursuant to Article 81 of the Constitution. Mr President, I am therefore asking you, and asking the House, to postpone the draft law to the Commissions meeting in order to enable it to be concluded in the referee with the approval of the amending proposals mentioned above, allowing the Assembly to examine the draft law at tomorrow's sitting already scheduled for 9.30 a.m. Moreover, there is full agreement between me and President Torrisi for an immediate convocation, and also in the early hours of tomorrow's day, of the two Commissions. I emphasize incidentally the need to address the theme of the organization of the National System of Civil Protection, not on the wave of emotion and tragedies that have struck these days on Central Italy, but after a thoughtful reflection free from rhetoric, in the spirit of service to the country. It would therefore be appropriate for the Commissions meeting 1a and 13a to conclude the examination of the measure assigned to them, in order to allow for a comprehensive and complete discussion, of course with the help of the rapporteurs to whom the mandate should be conferred.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-748.ana.u67	President Marinello, excuse me, but I have to confine myself to two points. You asked for a suspension with a postponement to the afternoon sitting of tomorrow, but in the final part of your speech you asked for this to be done at the end of the work of the Commissions. The two requests are not exactly the same. If you will allow me to correct this, in case you agree with your proposal, since we have a timetable for work which provides as the only measure already concluded in the Commission the draft law n. 1261-B, on the contrast to cyberbullying, I propose to place the discussion of the provision on the reordering of the national civil protection system after that on the draft law on the contrast to cyberbullying. I ask you to tell me if you accept this proposal. MARINELLO (AP (Ncd-CpI)). Yes, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-748.ana.u68	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-748.ana.u69	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-748.ana.u70	Montevecchi (M5S). Mr President, I rise to stigmatise this development of the work once again. Yesterday it was requested to table the amendments in a great hurry, by 12 o'clock which then became 14 o'clock. It's 7:00 now. It's no news that the Commissions can work even at night. Therefore, if there is really an urgency with regard to this measure, I would ask the Commissioners and the President of the Environment Commission to convene the Commission now, and not tomorrow morning at 9.30 a.m. In fact, when there is a real urgency, the Commissions are also called at 8 a.m. or 8 p.m. at 8 p.m. Therefore, I would like to try to understand whether we really want this measure to be urgent, whether it really comes to the House tomorrow and finishes its process; or whether we want everything to end, so to speak, "tarallucci and wine," that is, next Tuesday. If that were the case, this week we would have postponed two votes: the election of a member of the AGCOM (which, as we know, is a vote that stirs the spirits and enthusiasts the political forces) and the vote on the document issued by the Junta of the elections and parliamentary immunity concerning Senator Minzolini (another measure that creates enthusiasm and storms of various kinds, probably even incursions). Let's understand once and for all, then because we try to be condescending and cooperative but to be caught by the nose we are not. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-748.ana.u71	A partial correction, Senator Montevecchi, to me seemed to have understood that President Marinello had indicated 8.30 and not 9.30.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-748.ana.u72	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-748.ana.u73	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-748.ana.u74	D'ALI' (FI-PdL XVII). Mr President, we are not opposed to President Marinello's proposal, but we would like to clarify some passages that we consider important. Even on the basis of what Senator Montevecchi said, we were urged to table amendments, but I do not believe and I do not want to think that the majority and the government considered it a purely formal reminder. The measure was hesitated by the House of Deputies more than a year ago, it is in the Commission; it may well be that the Commission will finish its work, but it will end it under the terms and effects of amendments whose deadline for submission to the Commission has expired for a long time. This morning we heard the President-in-Office make it clear that there are important new decisions to be taken on civil protection. In our small capacity for amendment we have tabled amendments which can also meet what the President-in-Office of the Council has said. Therefore, we are not opposed to President Marinello's proposal, but we would like to point out on the substance of the matter that the debate in this House cannot be limited to the text which will come out of the Commission, even if it should be amended in accordance with the prescriptive deadlines of the Budget Commission. However, we do not believe that this text should be submitted to the House for immediate approval, but we are asking for an in-depth debate, as the Rules of Procedure provide. We therefore call on the Government and the majority not to place the emphasis on the deepening of the debate and the possible adoption of further amendments such as those which we have been invited to present with a very narrow term. We have done so in the belief that we are cooperating in the definition of a text which is certainly more appropriate than experience. I am opposed to emergency legislation, but I am sure that the experience we have had in this last year, and particularly in recent months, is a reflection on the overall text that is at our attention. I would also like to make another important point with regard to our work. However, this is still a parliamentary initiative text, which is why we could never take into account force on the debate in this House. Therefore, it is the right of all senators to participate in the composition of a text that - we are now accustomed to everything in this legislature, President - cannot be adopted by the Government as a government text, and perhaps submitted to a vote of confidence of the Assembly. Otherwise, the good harmony with which we intend to carry out the work may also have some problem being maintained. [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-748.ana.u75	Senator D'Alì, the measure does not have a quota of the times. Time limits have been set for tabling amendments. It is clear that, at a time when there should be a change in the text received from the House in the Commission, there will be a reopening of the time limits for tabling amendments.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-748.ana.u76	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-748.ana.u77	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-748.ana.u78	Arrigoni (LN-Aut). Mr President, we, too, are not opposed to the request for suspension and return to the Commission of the measure put forward by President Marinello. Yesterday the Senate Assembly, by voting on the urgency procedure on the emotional wave, has frankly raced too much and we, as a Group of the North League, had emphasized it, even more so because we are talking about a draft law delegation. We learn that there is the opinion of the Budget Commission. It is therefore appropriate that the measure completes its procedure in the two Commissions and arrives in the House with the rapporteur; so it would not happen if President Marinello's proposal were rejected. Having said that, we, as the Group of the North Legacy, have taken seriously the time limit, although very close, of 12 a.m. this morning, which was then postponed until 2 p.m. for tabling amendments to this House. We also presented them on the basis of what happened in the last months after the earthquake of Central Italy in August and October last year, after the earthquake of 18 January and the bad weather emergency. We believe we have made some important contributions. Let us say at once that we hope that the debate in the Commission and in this House will not be compressed at all and that there will be room for careful consideration of the positive proposals that our Group has put forward. We are sure - as Senator D'Ali said earlier - that other groups have also made positive contributions to the measure. Nothing therefore precludes the return of the measure to the Commission. [[Applause from Senator Candiani.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-748.ana.u79	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-748.ana.u80	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-748.ana.u81	MUSSINI (Mixed). Mr President, I think it is necessary to have intellectual honesty. The work in the Commission is firm; the opinions of the rapporteurs and the Government have been expressed and, as far as I am aware, have been opposed to all the amendments. In fact, we are at a time when the draft law is clearly accepted by the majority as it is, except for the opinions of the Budget Commission. Therefore, it seems clear to me that the responsibility to carry out the measure is also linked to the will of the Budget Commission. I also welcome Senator D'Alì's speech. The bill is important and important because it is a reorder, but it is also useless to wait who knows what and to postpone for who knows what other reasons. It is a good and just thing that what the country needs is done, of course in the times and in the correct ways according to the Rules of Procedure of the Senate; but it must not become a tool to determine other times, but neither can it become a neglect theme for other reasons. It is therefore appropriate that you come to this House. A statement of urgency was unanimously voted on for inclusion on the calendar. This does not mean that it should be done today; it can be examined tomorrow or in the first days of next week. I did not intend to set a specific moment; I wanted to draw the House's attention to the fact that these are measures that are needed. It's a delegated law and it's strict. Those who had things to say, since all the groups have representatives in the Commission, will have taken part in the debate and will also have tabled and tabled amendments. As a result, the time to meditate on the provision was: from September 2015 end to October last, practically over a year. So let us not say now that we need further insights and meditations. Let's do what we have to do. Let us not hide behind other things and send forth what may be useful.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-748.ana.u82	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-748.ana.u83	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-748.ana.u84	GIOVANARDI (GAL (GS, PPI, M, Id, E-E, MPL)). Mr President, although I did not follow the problem specifically, when it became clear a few days ago that the time was not ripe in this House if we wanted to reach a joint motion with the Government on Venezuela, I proposed that we suspend the debate for a long time - in that case until Tuesday - enough to arrive at a satisfactory solution. And so it has happened, because in the meantime the contrasts of that day have dried up. In the face of such a serious and complex problem as that concerning civil protection, even in the light of what has happened, it seems to me that the request to return to the Commission, moreover made by a President of the Commission, a little 'temper' the circumstance that the Government and the majority have already said no to everything. The proposal to return to the Commission comes from a majority representative, President of the Commission. I think it is a good thing that there is the possibility, if only theoretical, of finding something more shared and non-conflicting in the Commission. I am speaking in the light of my parliamentary experience for a few years and perhaps even a little less close to the emotions of these days and the temptation not to deepen the rules from the technical and legal point of view, but to make this debate a sounding board that looks more outwards than to the rationalization of a system. As far as I am concerned, the proposal to return to the Commission is wise and to be welcomed.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-748.ana.u85	Colleagues, I am speaking to clarify the Commission's work and because it seems to me that the whole of this House needs to be calm. The attitude of opposition or closure of the rapporteur - let us call it this - was linked to the fact that we were able to approve the text that was transmitted to us by the House of Deputies and make it a law. However, account must be taken of the remarks made by the Budget Committee under Article 81 of the Constitution and amendments must therefore be made. The Commission and this Assembly will consider whether to approve those amendments and, having regard to the fact that at that point the amendments will have been introduced and that there will therefore be a need to send the text to the House, whether they should be approved of others which were not previously predictable. Do I make myself clear? I therefore put to the vote the proposal to postpone the discussion of the draft law on the reorganization of civil protection after the discussion of the bill on cyberbullying. It's approved. Colleagues, we should now move on to the discussion of the cyberbullying bill. However, since, in the short term, the request has been made to anticipate the closing time of the sitting (in view of the attempt to convene the Parliamentary Commission in advance for the general direction and supervision of broadcasting services), I propose that this debate be postponed, also in order to give it continuity, to the sitting tomorrow morning. As no comments are made, so it remains established.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-748.ana.u86	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-748.ana.u87	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-748.ana.u88	ROMANI Maurizio (Misto-Idv). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, today I put a question to the Presidency of the Council of Ministers. It is an explosive issue in my opinion, with criminal responsibilities, even very serious, whose facts have affected, even at international level, the correctness and credibility of our country. I therefore call for your attention. I am referring to the problem of international adoptions. In July 2016, the weekly "Espresso" published a cover survey entitled "Child Thieves" in relation to the case of some children in Congo who were taken from their families, from which there are disturbing details regarding the direct involvement of the agency Aibi (Friends of the children). I absolutely don't want to be a vigilante, but according to the investigation a network of traffickers would have tried to bring in Italy children stolen from their parents in Congo, therefore certainly not adoptable, thanks also to the alleged cover and omissions of the leaders of the Aibi association. GIOVANARDI (GAL (GS, PPI, M, Id, E-E, MPL)). They were sued for slander and defamation. ROMANI Maurizio (Misto-Idv). Through their local assistants, they would even hinder the departure for Italy of dozens of... [[Comments by Senator Giovanardi.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-748.ana.u89	Senator Giovanardi, we're not having a debate. These are late-session speeches, whose content and duration I would like to draw attention to: we are, in fact, creating more sessions than the original ones. [[Comments of Senator Giovanardi]] Let us stick to the end of the sitting, so I am available for three minutes, after which I will always take the floor.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-748.ana.u90	Last December, again on the weekly "L'Espresso" it deepens the investigation (I say only what I read). [[Comments by Senator Giovanardi.]] The investigation is deepened by an article entitled: Stolen children. Silence is broken, which reported that dozens of families' complaints against Aibi have been reported for alleged serious irregularities in international adoption procedures. [[Comments of Senator Giovanardi]] In November 2016 we have a confirmation of what was reported in the survey of the weekly "l'Espresso" (Espresso). There was an investigation conducted by an American network (Fusion net) spread on social networks... [[Recalls of the President]] Consider that I left a long time later.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-748.ana.u91	I stopped the clock, Senator Romani, so finish.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-748.ana.u92	ROMANI Maurizio (Misto-Idv). A service in which there is a confession by Bénédicte Masika Sabuni, responsible for the reception center of minors who collaborated with Aibi, said that there were many children who were taken to their families and put into adoption. PRESIDENT. - The debate is Thank you, Senator Romani, your time is over. ROMANI Maurizio (Misto-Idv). Please.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-748.ana.u93	Senator Romani, you can't come and do a press review over the last few months. He read November and December; if one has read the Espresso well, but he cannot read it again.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-748.ana.u94	I only spoke in order to pray to all my colleagues - as silence bothers me, I really like the truth and I would like to get to the truth - to read my question and, if I agree, to sign it so that we can discuss it. [[Comments by Senator Giovanardi.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-748.ana.u95	Very good, the reminder is allowed.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-748.ana.u96	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-748.ana.u97	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-748.ana.u98	PUGLIA (M5S). Mr President, pensioners receive a pension every month. Well, this money comes from different sources: there is the amount of the pension, there is the supplement (possibly), there are family treatments (possibly), there is an increase in the increase (always possibly) and so on. These are the positive values that increase the pension and give the total amount. On this overall gross pension there are deductions: there may be contributions of solidarity, there are tax deductions (justly: everyone must contribute in proportion to their income) and then there are deductions of union membership quotas. Mr President, I have been informed that for some time now these pensioners have not received, as they did in the past, the pension certificate in which they can see how these deductions are carried out. Someone might say it takes too much money to send it to every pensioner. Well, I agree, but at this point we automatically consent to all patrons, or to the pensioner if he enters his personal web area, i.e. in the so-called social security drawer, to see precisely where these deductions come from. Mr President, I think it is necessary to urge Mr Poletti to make an alert to the INPS so that every month these pensioners can understand in a simple way how pension deductions are carried out. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-748.ana.u99	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-748.ana.u100	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-748.ana.u101	D'ALI' (FI-PdL XVII). Mr President, even during this sitting I was frustrated to wait to know when the Government will report on the episode of the machine gunning in the Libyan waters of some Sicilian and therefore Italian fishing units (if Sicily's membership of Italy is still worth it, it seems to me that we are increasingly considered B-series citizens). I therefore renew the request to the Presidency to know when the Government will report on this very serious incident, which is beginning to be somewhat dated, to have an immediate response as I have requested. I repeat, therefore, that I call on you to look into the government's willingness to come to this House.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-748.ana.u102	Senator D'Alì, in view of the absence of government representatives in the Chamber, we would like to point out your concern.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-748.ana.u103	The motions, questions and questions received by the Presidency will be published in Annex B to today's report.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-748.ana.u104	The Senate will meet again tomorrow, Thursday 26 January, in two public sessions, the first at 9.30 a.m. and the second at 16 a.m., with the following agenda: (See agenda) The sitting was closed at 7.23 p.m.
