ParlaMint-IT_2017-06-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-838.ana.u1	The sitting is open (9:36 a.m.). The Minutes shall be read. Mr Mauro Giovanni, secretary, read the Minutes of the afternoon sitting of the previous day.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-06-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-838.ana.u2	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-06-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-838.ana.u3	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-06-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-838.ana.u4	SANTANGELO (M5S). Mr President, I would like to ask for the vote on the Minutes, subject to a quorum check. Verification of quorum
ParlaMint-IT_2017-06-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-838.ana.u5	I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators, by electronic procedure. (The request is supported). I therefore call on the senators to make their presence known by electronic means. (Follows the quorum check.) The Senate has a quorum. Resumption of the debate on the Minutes I put the Minutes to the vote. It's approved.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-06-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-838.ana.u6	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-06-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-838.ana.u7	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-06-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-838.ana.u8	AIROLA (M5S). Mr President, the voting mechanism at my station during the quorum check did not work.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-06-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-838.ana.u9	The Presidency takes note of this.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-06-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-838.ana.u10	The list of senators on leave and absent on assignment received from the Senate, as well as further communications to the Assembly, will be published in Annex B to today's Minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-06-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-838.ana.u11	I would warn you that qualified votes can be taken in the course of today's sitting by electronic means. Therefore, from this moment the period of 20 minutes from the notice provided for in Article 119, paragraph 1, of the Regulation (9:39 hours) begins.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-06-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-838.ana.u12	The next item is the vote on the election of a member of the Council of President of the Court of Auditors, pursuant to Article 7 (1) (d) of Law No 186 of 27 April 1982 and Article 18 (3) of Law No 205 of 21 July 2000. The vote, by secret ballot, shall be taken by ballot. Each senator will receive a card on which he can indicate a name. The one who will obtain the absolute majority of the votes of the members of the Senate will be proclaimed elected. For the voting operations a urn has been prepared which, once it has been exhausted, will remain open until 13 o'clock. The senators, called in alphabetical order, will be able to pass under the bench of the Presidency, communicating to the senators the Secretary's name, and place the card in the prepared urn. I therefore declare the voting operations open by secret ballot and invite the Secretary Senators to proceed with the call. (Follows he calls her.) I repeat to my fellow Members that the ballot boxes will remain open until 1 p.m. to allow those who have not yet voted to do so, passing under the Presidency and communicating their names to the Secretary Senators. If any of them arrive, please inform them of this option. (The ballot boxes remain open.)
ParlaMint-IT_2017-06-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-838.ana.u13	The next item is the debate on the draft law No 2853, already approved by the House of Deputies. The rapporteur, Senator Santini, has requested authorisation to carry out the oral report. No comments were made and the request was accepted. I therefore call the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-06-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-838.ana.u14	Mr President, representatives of the Government, ladies and gentlemen, Decree-Law No 50 of 2017 is of particular importance in the current economic phase, as in addition to ensuring the control of public accounts, it promotes, through a complex set of measures, interventions to accompany the growth of the economy and employment in our country. The path on which the provision develops is narrow. The priority of action is to reduce debt as agreed with the European Union. However, in view of the effort required by our economic system, a number of provisions have been prepared and strengthened during the parliamentary debate aimed at disabling safeguard clauses and reducing the impact of maneuvering on businesses and citizens. These interventions have been accompanied by other important and expected provisions including measures for local authorities and the earthquake. The first part of the Decree-Law in question contains measures for the control of public accounts. In terms of net debt, the corrective intervention is approximately EUR 3.1 billion and is largely operated on the revenue side, for approximately EUR 2.8 billion, and in part residual, for a little less than EUR 0.3 billion, on the expenditure side. The improvement in public finances is around 0.2 percentage points of GDP, resulting in a reduction from 2.3 to 2.1 percent of GDP in net debt expected in 2017. In this context, particular emphasis is placed on measures to combat tax evasion, such as the extension of the split payment to the supply of goods and services to public administrations, changes to the exercise of the right to VAT deduction, the avoidance of undue compensation, the re-determination of the rates of aid for economic growth (ACE), the new provisions on foreclosure. These are measures which, on the one hand, increase pressure on the production system in relation to the introduction of new provisions on the split payment, but which have also been adopted with appropriate compensatory measures. For example, on the issue of corporate liquidity, a measure has been adopted which significantly reduces the time taken for the repayment of claims to public authorities in terms of compensation. To these are added the measures aimed at deflating the tax litigation, through the raising of the threshold of mediation in tax disputes and the introduction of facilitated modalities for the pending disputes. Further measures such as the introduction of the so-called web tax, which concerns non-resident companies in Italy that belong to multinational groups that sell goods and services in Italy for more than 50 million euros per year, will be added to the original proposals of the Decree-Law on the tax side. They will be able to use a procedure of cooperation and collaboration with the Agency for the definition of their tax debts. 10:53 a.m. (Saints follow). The increased revenue - to be quite significant indeed - arising from these provisions will be directed - and this, in my view, is a very significant fact - to the refinancing of the Social Policy Fund and the Non-self-sufficiency Fund, as well as the tax relief fund. The provisions extending the dry coupon at a rate of 21% on income from short rentals of housing properties are also mentioned. These are provisions governing the taxation of rentals of less than 30 days by private persons holding housing which are not engaged in business activities. The municipalities may also regulate the residence tax for such rentals. There are also provisions that increase and re-modulate the taxation of tobacco and the rules on games, with which the plan to reduce the number of gaming equipment is implemented organically. Also on the revenue side, it is important to recall the introduction of synthetic indicators of tax reliability of taxpayers, to which specific benefits are related in relation to the different levels of taxpayer reliability, improving the collaboration between this and the financial administration. These synthetic indices substantially exceed the well-known sector studies. From the point of view of finding resources, it is envisaged to remodulate the authorisation of expenditure for the years 2017-2020 relating to the tax credit for the purchase of new capital goods intended for productive structures in assisted areas in the regions of the Mezzogiorno, as well as the reduction, for the year 2017, of the allocations of missions and expenditure programmes of the states of forecast of the Ministries. As a result of the revenue interventions, the measure provides for the partial decommissioning of the safeguard clauses, foreshadowing a path that reduces, from more than €19 billion to little more than €15 billion, the basic correction that will have to be adopted in the budget law for 2018 in order to sterilize the expected increase - to be avoided - of VAT and excise duties. In view of the measures to correct the public accounts, the measure provides for a series of measures aimed at the economic and social recovery of the country. These actions cover four priority areas: transport, work, support for businesses and taxpayers and investment. Particular importance is given to the provisions on rail transport, among which are the interventions relating to the management of regional railway networks, the provisions for the completion of the Large Stations Programme; the authorization of the preparatory activities for the start of the works of the new Turin-Lion railway line; the development, by ANAS SpA, of appropriate synergies with the Ferrovie dello Stato Group and for the transfer to Ferrovie dello Stato Italiane SpA of the actions of ANAS SpA. With specific regard to air transport, we point out the introduction in the provision of provisions aimed at guaranteeing the operational continuity of Alitalia already contained in the appropriate decree-law for the examination of the Chamber. With regard to the subject of work, particular importance is given to the provisions created in the parliamentary debate introducing a new framework for occasional work services which fills the gap left by the repeal of the so-called vouchers regulation. No one can deny the usefulness and the necessity that among the employment contracts available in Italy there is also a contract that regulates the occasional work. The contract, unlike the past, must contain certainty of duties and rights for both parties, in full transparency and full traceability. In summary, a new form of employment contract is introduced, which has transparent characteristics and makes the employer and the worker respectively entitled to duties and rights. This form of contract of employment fills a requirement expressed by families, businesses and workers themselves, as in the case of thousands of young students who intend to work occasionally in order to stay in study or of families and small businesses that are temporarily in need of occasional work without recourse to undeclared work. Other work-related measures include those relating to the definition of the characteristics of certain work activities for the purpose of the payment of the recognised benefit, until pension requirements mature, in favour of persons in particular conditions (social EPAs), and the application of the reduction of the requirement of contributory seniority in favour of so-called early workers. A further intervention concerns an amendment to the rules on the issue of the single document of contributory regularity (DURC). Important measures have been introduced with regard to the issue of support for businesses and taxpayers, including a mix of fiscal measures and simplification of their obligations. In this context, the provisions relating to the modification of the patent box rules relating to trademarks and patents are particularly important; the tax incentives granted for incremental advertising investments in newspapers, periodicals and on local television and radio stations; the provisions allowing - this is very important - investment in individual savings plans (PIRs) also in pension funds and pension funds; the provisions extending to small and medium-sized enterprises formed in the form of Srl derogations from the civil rules for innovative start-ups; the provisions on taxing income from long-term investments in the capital of companies made by social security funds and pension funds. Among the measures supporting growth are the new provisions on facilitation and incentive for investments in construction restructuring. Thanks to these measures, the ecobonus can also be applied concretely to the large condominiums that arose in the fifties, sixties and seventies, where the owner families in many cases are incapient. From now on, this incentive will not only serve to renovate homes and improve the energy efficiency of the homes of families that are better off, but also housing owned by families that have so far not been able to benefit from this incentive. The application is very extensive. The norm has enormous potential if you take into account that in the country much of the ecobonus has been used so far to restructure the single houses and, in very rare cases, for the large condominiums. In the field of credit, important measures have been introduced such as the extension of the scope of the Credit Fund to companies that are the victims of non-payment and innovations in the field of credit securitisation. Finally, in the field of investments, the measures aimed at facilitating investments for the realization of important sporting events of international scope that must be carried out in the coming years in our country, as well as the measures to simplify the procedural procedures planned for the construction of facilities for sports competitions. In addition to interventions for the correction of public accounts and support for the economic system, measures relating to local and regional authorities are particularly important. On the merits, the issue of the Provinces has been addressed taking into account that these bodies are under way, and will also be the subject of a rethinking of their overall position within the country's institutional system after the results of the referendum and their confirmation as bodies of constitutional importance. It is a question of ensuring that these bodies are able to fully fulfil the important fundamental functions assigned to them, such as those relating to school construction, mobility, road traffic, environmental protection, planning and programming, enabling them to better address the current transitional and emerging phase. The measure under consideration does not solve all the problems still open in the Provinces, but gives first significant answers that allow them to live this phase of transition to arrive at a more stable and defined financial framework, which has as its goal 2019. In that year the contribution measures to the public finance balances planned today for the Provinces will be reduced and important resources will again be available. Meanwhile, for the years 2017 and 2018 the resources available to the Provinces up to 180 million euros for each of the above years for the exercise of the fundamental functions, with a significant increase compared to what originally foreseen by the decree-law. In addition, three other important provisions have been adopted. The first one expects an increase from 100 to 170 million euros, for 2017, of the contribution in favor of the Provinces for the activity of extraordinary maintenance of the road network. The second provision provides for a further authorisation of expenditure of 15 million euros, for 2017, for school building interventions, therefore with interventions covering both fundamental and specific functions. Finally, the third provision provides that sanctions for non-compliance with the constraints of the Stability Pact, if they are already applied to the Provinces, are eliminated. This also applies to the Provinces of the Regions with ordinary statutes for which the same violations were established after 31 December 2014. This forecast has an amount of approximately EUR 20 million. As mentioned above, these measures are in addition to the original measures which included, inter alia, the distribution of the reduction in current expenditure between the Provinces and the Metropolitan Cities. Similarly, the public finance competition is divided between each Province and Metropolitan City and measures are planned to facilitate the approval of the budgets by the Provinces and Metropolitan Cities to overcome the transition phase. As far as municipalities are concerned, one of the most important rules concerns the modification of the rules governing the turnover of municipal staff with a population of between 1,000 and 3,000, where the unblocking of recruitment is foreseen for 100% of the non-management staff ceased in the previous year. For the remaining municipalities, the percentage is set at 90%. Finally, the provisions relating to the establishment and distribution of the Municipal Solidarity Fund and the very significant simplification measures resulting from the entry into force of the principle of balanced budgets are mentioned. In order to facilitate the merger between municipalities, it has been foreseen that the constraints established by the legislation in force for fixed-term recruitment will not apply in the first five years of the merger. With regard to the Regions, a special provision establishes, for the year 2017, the distribution between the Regions under the ordinary Statute of the financial spaces in order to favor the investments for a total of 500 million euros, already allocated by the law of budget 2017. A further intervention concerns the allocation of shares of the Fund to be allocated for the financing of investments and infrastructure development in the country. In addition to this, starting from 2017, the Technical Commission for Standard Needs is expected to prepare methodologies for determining the needs and tax capacities of regions with ordinary statutes, in matters other than health care. In addition, measures on local public transport and pharmaceutical and health expenditure have been introduced under the chapter on local authorities. With regard to local public transport, it is worth noting the re-determination of the consistency and the definition of the criteria for the allocation of the National Fund for State financial assistance to the burdens of local public transport, which is much awaited. In addition, certain provisions have been laid down which affect the competitiveness of the public road transport sector, with reference to interregional scheduled services with pre-established routes, prices and frequencies. Important measures are also devoted to pharmaceutical and health expenditure. In particular, with regard to pharmaceutical expenditure, provision is made for information flows of pharmaceutical information and for medicines which have been recognised as the requirement for conditional innovation. Then there are other measures that we find in the text. With regard to health expenditure, with reference to health building, the agreement established by the State-Regions of 23 February 2017 on the reduction, equal to 100 million euros, of the resources programmed for such interventions in the building sector. In addition, with regard to health expenditure, the derogation rule for 2016 excludes the calculation, for the purpose of verifying compliance with the obligation of balance of the budget by the Regions or the Autonomous Provinces, of certain accounting commitments relating to health expenditure. Measures in favour of areas affected by seismic events are another major political and substantive chapter of the decree-law. Among the most significant measures is the appropriation of one billion euros, for each of the years 2017, 2018 and 2019, for the interventions provided for in the decree-law and the establishment of a Fund to accelerate the reconstruction activities, with a budget of 461.5 million euros for the year 2017, 687,3 million euros for the year 2018 and 699,7 million euros for the year 2019, to be used for reconstruction interventions intended for municipalities affected by the earthquake and municipalities of seismic risk zones 1, as well as for specific experimental plans for the seismic defense of public buildings and for the purchase and maintenance of the means necessary for the relief to the civilian population. The planned interventions were further extended to the House, starting with the allocation of financial spaces to facilitate the carrying out of investments related to reconstruction by the local authorities affected, measures to support the planning capacities of the municipalities in the affected areas, measures to further support the companies in the tourism and trade sector, to make available more resources to cover the so-called indirect damage caused by seismic events, measures also to respond to the requests submitted by the agricultural companies regarding the damage suffered by calamitous events, not only for the earthquake, but also in relation to other weather events such as frosts. Particularly important are also the provisions for the extension of time limits, in particular with regard to compliance and tax payments. And finally of particular importance are the provisions concerning the establishment and the discipline of an urban free zone in the Municipalities of the Regions affected by the seismic events that have followed since 24 August 2016. Last but not least, the provisions on education and culture are mentioned. As far as education is concerned, the rule that increases the availability of the Fund for the increase of teaching staff and autonomy is very important; an increase intended to cover the burden on the salaries of teaching staff, which will be determined as a result of the consolidation of the staff of schools of every order and the level of 15,100 posts coming from the staff in fact. This is an investment of great importance, and of great importance are the interventions on the institutions of high artistic formation and on the local librarian systems. We also recall the rule concerning the positions of director of institutes and places of culture of relevant national interest, for which a principle is affirmed: we do not build an anti-TAR standard, as has been wrongly said, but we affirm the principle for which our places of culture want to be able to have at their direction the best professionalism and skills at international level. Among other measures, the Fund for the right to work for disabled people is increased by 58 million for 2017 and there are a number of other social and organizational measures; there are some concerning the strengthening of the staff of the Court of Auditors, measures on the Fund for organic school canteens and many other initiatives that go in the direction of consolidating the objectives and lines of action originally contained in the Decree-Law. In conclusion, it is a complex, important measure, which by structure is comparable to the most important measures adopted during this legislature, and which is entrusted with the objective of widening the path of growth and development of the country, as evidenced by the data of these days, in balance between control, improvement of accounts and support for the change and modernization of the country, in order to adequately equip it to the great challenges that live today and that await it tomorrow. [[Applause from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-06-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-838.ana.u15	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-06-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-838.ana.u16	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-06-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-838.ana.u17	VOLPI (LN-Aut). Mr President, I would like to speak briefly on the order of business: I have seen your figure spending politically these days on certain priorities that Parliament should place on issues that I do not share, but I have taken it as the expression of Senator Grasso. However, today I would like to draw your attention to the uneasiness, which is now common by majority and opposition, generated by the fact that yesterday's news agencies had already announced yet again that the issue of trust was put on this issue. Mr President, I believe that you, in addition to expressing political positions on the issues on the agenda (you have your freedom, see how you interpret your role), should also play your role in your role as second-placer of the State (but you were lucky to be for a short period even before the State) and point out to the President of the Republic that in order to put the question of trust in a measure, as is now happening twice a week, we would need some premises and that it is no longer possible to continue this way. It is also up to you, Mr Grasso, to defend the prerogatives of this House and of the Members of Parliament. It is not possible that on any subject on the agenda we will no longer be allowed to discuss, even on serious matters such as labour (so to speak, labour) because the question of trust will be raised. Even more, Mr President, it is absurd that every time people know two days before, through the press agency of some government representative, that confidence will be placed on a measure. Please take your institutional position into consideration and point out to the President of the Republic that we have crossed the line and it is no longer possible, as is the case in this legislature, to allow only votes of confidence, because it is an offense not only to me, Senator of opposition, but to all our senators and it is an offense to you. I would therefore ask you to say what you have to say about this House, which has its dignity (and I would remind you that the presence of the Senate has been confirmed by a referendum), to spend some time on these issues too and not just to say that we must vote on it alone the day after tomorrow, because this is taking on a political role. The institutional position should also be taken. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group and Senator Rizzotti.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-06-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-838.ana.u18	Senator Volpi, as you know, the decision to put the question of confidence on a measure sees a passage in the Council of Ministers, at a time when, from authorization to affixing, the news is made known to the outside world. That first resolution is different from the act of actually putting the question of trust in this House: that is a first moment of communication. Secondly, you will be able to address all the questions you wish on the measure which is the subject of the question of trust, as provided for in our Rules of Procedure, which will be evaluated and voted on by the House which remains sovereign. As far as my role is concerned, I am not at all offended by your statements, because I believe that I interpret it both in the political phase and in the Presidency phase. To posterity the arduous sentence.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-06-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-838.ana.u19	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-06-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-838.ana.u20	About what, Senator Volpi? This topic again? We take note of the demand for trust, but - not to make a joke - confidence is generally important in life.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-06-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-838.ana.u21	[[Applause from Senator Calderoli]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-06-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-838.ana.u22	Please, Senator, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-06-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-838.ana.u23	VOLPI (LN-Aut). Mr President, let us not wish posterity. I want to continue to enjoy his friendship for another two hundred years. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Thank you. It's not about friendship, it's not personal. VOLPI (LN-Aut). In fact, I didn't dispute that the government could ask for trust. I just asked you to report to the President of the Republic... I think the President is careful enough about parliamentary matters. I don't need to tell him. [[Applause from the PD Group]] VOLPI (LN-Aut). I believe that you should do so, so that the President of the Republic, as well as the former Presidents who sit here as life senators who had called for excessive recourse to a vote of confidence, will at least take up that practice. Too bad, then, they say things, but never does no President do what he has to do.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-06-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-838.ana.u24	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-06-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-838.ana.u25	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-06-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-838.ana.u26	AIROLA (M5S). Mr President, I am always speaking on the question of trust and the order of business. Honestly I would not wait for the sentence of the posterity, since Italy is already in ruins and, moreover, it will also be very heavy, I believe. Secondly, I do not trust this majority and this government. Thirdly, I do not trust a President who has already put his trust in the electoral law and who, therefore, seems to have overcome any constitutional constraint. CARDINALI (PD). Words in freedom. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator Airola, we're going off topic. We all know the theme of trust. AIROLA (M5S). But these things must be reported so that they remain in the acts.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-06-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-838.ana.u27	We also take note of your speech. [[Comments of Senator Montevecchi.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-06-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-838.ana.u28	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to make two very brief premises. The first is that our Constitution should, as long as it is in force, be respected, regardless of the judgment each has on its individual parts. This is first and foremost an ethical-moral reason, since our Constitution is the fundamental Charter that governs the life of the Republic. When it comes to relations between the State and the Regions, there is also a reason for convenience and a functional reason that suggests that the Constitution should be respected. Indeed, as you know, the constitutional disputes between the State and the Regions represent most of the work that the Constitutional Court is called upon to do. Perhaps we should have a surplus of caution in this case, while respecting the Charter. The second premise: we have done everything we can to prevent this question from being referred for a preliminary ruling. In particular, Mr Di Giacomo, speaking in his own Commission fora, has repeatedly asked that the matter of which I shall speak be deleted because it presents a clear defect of constitutionality. What's this about? Article 34 -bis of the decree-law object of conversion previews the implementation - through, in fact, legislative procedure with character of necessity and urgency (i.e. with decree-law) - of the extraordinary operating plan of the Molise Region. This plan, agreed through the understanding State-Region and adopted by decree of the commissioner ad acta, has never been submitted for deliberation to the legislative body of the Region Molise itself. As you know, fellow senators, Article 117 of our Constitution states that legislative power is exercised by the State and the Regions. Article 117, as regards competing subjects, including health, also gives the Regions legislative power, except for the determination of the fundamental principles reserved for the legislation of the State. Article 120 of our Constitution also states that the Government may replace the bodies of the Regions in the event of non-compliance with international treaties and Community legislation, in the event of serious danger to safety and public security or when it is required to protect legal, economic and, in particular, the essential levels of benefits relating to civil and social rights. Article 120 also says - and this seems to me to be the fundamental point - that the law defines procedures to ensure that substitute powers are exercised in accordance with the principles of subsidiarity and loyal cooperation. Now, fellow senators, constitutional jurisprudence has established that the legislative autonomy of the Regions in the matter of health protection may be restricted, but it has added that these must be limited to legislative initiatives or activities of delegification by the Regional Council in order to respect the implementation of the return plan. Moreover, constitutional jurisprudence has always established that the national legislator can intervene in the event of a financial failure only through the setting of total limits to the expenditure, leaving at the level of local or regional government wide freedom of allocation of resources between the different areas and objectives of expenditure (according to judgment No 415 of 2005 and others). Now, in the light of the articles of the Constitution and their interpretation by constitutional jurisprudence, it seems clear to me that Article 34- bis of this bill goes beyond the boundaries highlighted. It is possible to set limits; it is not possible to remove completely the legislative body of the Region from this procedure. Ladies and gentlemen, from the exercise of the principle of loyal cooperation established by the Constitution we move to the establishment of a principle of loyal substitution by the State. If we then read in the press about the reactions caused by this measure in the region concerned, we must conclude that the principle is not of loyal substitution, but of unfair substitution, because of course the Council and the legislative body are completely excluded. It seems to me, Mr President and colleagues, that a precedent is being established or at least a practice is being consolidated which risks creating a dispute leading to new problems and delays. Beyond the intentions, which can also be excellent, because we know that good intentions are paved the way to hell we should bear this in mind, especially when it comes to the Constitution and when it is so blatantly violated. [[Applause from Senators Bignami and Fucksia.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-06-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-838.ana.u29	He asked Senator Stefani to intervene in order to explain the question referred for a preliminary ruling QP2. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-06-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-838.ana.u30	Mr President, for the umpteenth time we must raise the same exceptions and considerations that have already been made in other fora at the time when decree-laws were issued in the absence of the conditions laid down in the Constitution. So, for the umpteenth time, we have to point out that the institutional and parliamentary balance between the respective tasks of Parliament and the Government is lacking. These are principles enshrined in our Constitution, which are the only instrument to ensure the balance of powers. And the imbalance has become apparent in many cases and is still confirmed today. We recall that Article 77 of the Constitution reiterates the ownership of the legislative power reserved only and exclusively to the Chambers, except in exceptional cases that legitimize the Government to issue decree-laws. Unfortunately, however, a practice that has been inveterated, carried out and has been continuously repeated by this Government, does nothing but continue an insane custom, in reality already censored by references of the same Head of State and by the judgments of the Constitutional Court. I would remind you, in silence, of the others, the many times cited in the constitutional references that we have proposed in many other fora, Judgment No 171 of 2007. Despite the calls made by the guarantee body, we persevere in issuing decree-laws that involve decisions that - in our opinion - always raise very great doubts and doubts about the constitutional legitimacy of the same. Among other things, no precise reference is made to the conditions of necessity and urgency in the measure before us. In fact, a mere general reminder of the extraordinary need and urgency is not enough. The urgency of measures to promote economic growth in the country has been included in the requirements. I believe, however, that the urgency of restoring the country has emerged not in the last two months, but perhaps for years. And then you don't understand why you can highlight it as a necessary and urgent requirement. Perhaps the only truly fundamental prerequisites for the enactment of the decree-law in question could concern measures for the protection of the populations affected by seismic events. That's what I'm talking However, let us take this opportunity to point out what we have already pointed out in other forums. They say it repetits iuvant, but it doesn't seem to me that this is the positive outcome for which we continue to insist. However, as regards the protection of areas affected by seismic events, there has been a plurality of regulations, legislative references, extensions and referrals, which are also so confused that even the principles of certainty of the legislation have disappeared. In reality, the interventions to be carried out above all in the context of measures for the economic growth of the country can be dealt with very well in an ordinary regulatory forum, in which the debate is certainly more in-depth. I would remind you that the decree-law also imposes time limits and limits on the time allowed to us Members in order to express our arguments. We must also raise another deficiency which we consider to be present in the measure we are examining, and in this case too, we merely point out and reiterate what has already been said in other places: there is no requirement for uniformity of the measure. Since it repetits iuvant, I note that Law No 400 of 1988 states that the content of the decree-law must be specific, homogeneous and corresponding to the title of the act. We inevitably find ourselves, on the other hand, with a measure that includes very different regulations between them. We remember, in addition to public finance, interventions on tax justice, containment of public expenditure, provisions on territorial authorities, transport and infrastructure; and then we arrive at measures for the work, the productivity of enterprises, interventions for sporting events and services. Therefore, more subjects are dealt with in the same measure, creating - on the face of homogeneity - yet another cauldron with which we try to put patches within the framework of measures that present very large gaps. A decree-law, moreover, should have an immediate application: let us then foresee its immediate application. On the contrary, there are even more rules that postpone the application of certain provisions a decidedly later time. For example: Article 1 provides for the issuing of a decree of the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Finance for the implementation of the new measures for fiscal contrast in the matter of split payment. In addition, Article 4 provides that a measure by the Director of the Revenue Agency will be necessary for the implementation of the new tax arrangements for short rentals. In this case too, the scope and content of a decree-law should be disregarded, as provided for in Article 77 of the Constitution, whose necessity and urgency should require its immediate application. If one wants to postpone the application of the norm to a later moment, the presupposition and the ratio itself for the issuing of a decree are diminished. There are, then, other problems and profiles of unconstitutionality inherent in the rules contained in the decree: I refer - for example - to the so-called split payment, applied to all the administrations, entities and subjects included in the consolidated account of the public administration, as well as to the independent professionals. Again, we take the opportunity to raise and highlight some of the criticalities of this rule, which are not only constitutional but also concern its merit. We are certainly talking about bodies, associations and professionals who will have liquidity problems. This is an issue that has already been raised several times and we would not - as is happening - want rules that should lead to fiscal consolidation to fall back on their burdens and burdens on citizens. I want to say basically that this is a rule that would have the pure intention of making corrections to public finance balances as requested by the European Union. Let us remember that the European Union, when examining the budget law, had considered that Italy was moving away from the medium-term objectives and that, therefore, a correction of 0.2% of GDP was needed. These are the necessity and urgency: the accounts have been wrong. We have tried to create seemingly acceptable budgetary laws, which were then, in the end, largely censored and, in this case, corrective action was necessary and necessary. However, we cannot say that this requires a decree-law. I would add to what has already been said that Article 30, in the section on cancer drugs, violates the rules contained in Articles 2 and 32 of the Constitution; rules binding the regions on the inclusion of such drugs in the regional prontuaries of medicinal products. This also leads to a manifest violation of the right of equality between citizens. Without adding anything else - the additional issues will certainly be better explained by colleagues in the debate on the measure - we ask the Assembly to decide not to proceed with the examination of the bill. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group and Senator Bignami]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-06-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-838.ana.u31	He asked Senator De Petris to intervene in order to explain the question referred for a preliminary ruling QP3. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-06-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-838.ana.u32	Mr President, first of all, let's get some order. The decree-law under consideration, which bears in its title the words "urgent provisions in financial matters" actually comes very late. I would like to remind you briefly here that the request from the European Commission came in November 2016. Then, on 17 January 2017, the Commission expressly requested the Italian Government to adopt corrective measures for the structural budget deficit planned for 2017 by May 2017. Therefore, the Government could have (as well as had to) launched the manoeuvre four months in advance without resorting in extremis - as usual - to the decree of urgency, thus allowing Parliament to fully exercise its institutional prerogatives. On the other hand, we are once again faced with the idea that it is enough to write and declare that there is need and urgency for the criteria and clauses provided for in Article 77 of the Constitution to be considered fulfilled. This is not the case, but - alas - this has become the practice, especially in the current legislature. From our point of view, the existence of these requirements had to be detectable not only in the preamble and had to be, as usual, substantial. Therefore, from this point of view we are faced with a decree which, as far as necessity and urgency are concerned, could have been adopted quietly before and which, among other things, does not fully justify their livelihood. All the more so because it, not only because of the transformations that took place in the House - on which I will then return - is immediately characterized as an omnibus decree in which - on the one hand - provisions linked to the maneuver and, therefore, to the correction of balances and - on the other hand - absolutely uneven norms are found, thereby failing to the other condition clearly indicated by our Constitution that is precisely that of the homogeneity of the decree itself. On the contrary, we are faced - I repeat - only very few articles of the original decree-law which have an immediate impact on balances or on the financial balance. The rest of the rules, which are 67 in the beginning, from this point of view have no logical connection between them and not even with the maneuver. Therefore, by omnibus decree, the Government once again disregarded the warning to a greater attention to the profile of the homogeneity of the content of the decree-laws, repeatedly launched by the Constitutional Court; for which Court the non homogeneity of the content of a decree-law would represent an index, or rather a clue, absolutely certain of the nonsusistence of the requirement of extraordinary necessity and urgency. Moreover, Mr President, you know that the House has added 63 more articles. Therefore, today we are faced with a measure that is a kind of a thousand extensions, in which there is everything and more. In explaining the question referred for a preliminary ruling, I would like to point out that there are completely heterogeneous provisions in it, ranging from combating tax evasion to voluntary disclosure, issuing a certificate of fiscal regularity, incentives for startups, increasing energy efficiency in condominiums, the budgets of territorial authorities, the merger of municipalities, excise duties on tobacco, EPA, DURC, productivity premiums, transfer pricing, local, rail and air transport, medicines and health care, and ANAS: all the more so. Then we come to one of the pearls contained within the provision: the Chamber of Deputies has included in the decree-law, and therefore in the bill of conversion of the decree itself, an article that restores the vouchers in fact, whose approval is therefore in total contrast to Decree-Law No. 25 of 2017, repealing the vouchers, which had been issued - at this point it is evident with a maneuver of real fraud and circumventing the constitutional norms that preside to the conduct of the referendums - to blow the referendum in this matter. The government, probably frightened by the consequences, in the light of what happened for constitutional reforms, decided not to face another confrontation with the citizens and therefore thought not to modify, but to repeal the rule, so that the Court of Cassation, among other things, should not even pronounce. In this way, it effectively re-introduces the legislation which was to be the subject of the referendum, circumventing what the Constitution provides, namely that only the Court of Cassation can decide whether or not the approved rules respond to the referendum questions and, therefore, whether or not the referendum should be held. In this case, however, there is a first time to blow up the referendum on 28 May and then there will be a second time. How can we tolerate, beyond how each of us can think of it - as my Group is clear - that the Government fraudulently puts in place operations to circumvent the rules on referendums and, therefore, constitutional principles and the Constitution? I don't think that's possible. Moreover, Mr President, he did so - at least in that case he let a year pass - even with the referendum on drills: he expounded the rule that would have caught the attention of the citizens more, that is, the one relating to drilling within 12 miles, and then a month and a half ago, with a legislative decree always of the Ministry of Economic Development, he gave the possibility to restart the oil explorations within the 12 miles. It is not acceptable for a government to put in place operations to circumvent the rules that are to guarantee everyone and, among other things, to guarantee an institution such as the referendum, which is the main institution of participation of citizens. We will take an active part in this, Mr President, because, given the short period of time between the first repealing decree that blew up the referendum and the inclusion of this article in the measure under consideration (the so-called labour legislation), there are all the conditions for recourse to the Court of Cassation in some way to revive the referendary and block this route of circumvention. If that were not the case, we would be faced with a genuine fraud against the citizens. There has been a great deal of talk about democracy, including, in this case too, the vouchers, which are the typical subject of conciliation. The government has played a dirty game - let me pass on this expression, Mr President - which calls into question constitutional principles, seriously wounds them and injures all the rules on the iter referendary. There are also two other very important issues from a constitutional point of view. I am referring to Article 62, in which, moreover, action is taken to facilitate the construction of the stadium, which is not from Rome, but from Pallotta. In fact, there is a substantial change in the competences and powers of the municipal councils - and not only that of Rome, but of all - in terms of the powers with regard to urban variations. And this is very serious because, through a decree-law, we intervene on fundamental norms that concern the competences of the councils. The same story has happened on the issue of the Molise Region: a very serious operation is carried out that opens the way to the privatization of the Molise health care, downgraded the public hospital, does not guarantee the LEAs and establishes the principle that a health plan can be approved by Parliament and not by the council, expropriating completely in that case the municipal councils and, in this case, the regional councils of own competences. For all these reasons, Mr President, we are also asking this House to reject the dirty game of circumventing the constitutional rules that I mentioned earlier, not to proceed with the examination of the Senate Act 2853. [[Applause from the Misto-SI-SEL Group and Senator Bignami.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-06-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-838.ana.u33	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-06-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-838.ana.u34	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-06-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-838.ana.u35	BERNINI (FI-PdL XVII). Mr President, I will try not to hold this House overly with the issues of constitutional legitimacy that have already been mentioned and widely argued by my previous colleagues, but unfortunately this is something that we must ritually repeat both in the Commission and in this House, and I say this with deep dismay. We have a review of constitutionality that starts from the Constitutional Affairs Commission and is mainly based, with regard to decree-laws, on compatibility with Article 77 of the Constitution. As you all teach me, this is an insurmountable precept that imposes on decree-laws (which do not follow the normal legislative process that indicates Parliament and not the Government as a body of primary legislation) causes, reasons, reasons and clear reasons of necessity and urgency. I would also like to refer to an article in Law No 400 of 1988, which we have now called so much to this House that, if each of us were able to receive one euro for every summons, he would be rich. Unfortunately, Article 15 of the aforementioned law also gives us a precept that the measure in question disregards, namely that of homogeneity. It is in fact a measure whose title already indicates the different themes covered by it. It is enough to read the scope of its scope: only a part of the issues mentioned and examined in depth by my previous colleagues are included in the measure under consideration. It consists of 67 articles, doubled in the House, which have as scope the world universe. From tax matters to labour, property matters, insolvency proceedings, to issues known to be necessary and urgent as interventions on the Salerno-Reggio Calabria route - therefore, a necessity and urgency that has been going on for about fifty years - matters pertaining to ANAS, to the Ferrovie dello Stato, to the regulation of sectors of public administration. And I make all these references, because this rule is obviously neither necessary nor urgent, except in some minor parts that concern natural disasters, but not even in that case you could recognize the necessity and urgency, but rather the delay of the Government. [[Brusio.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-06-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-838.ana.u36	I ask colleagues to lower their voices, because I cannot hear the senator.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-06-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-838.ana.u37	BERNINI (FI-PdL XVII). Thank you, Mr President. I was talking about the government's delay in carrying out the necessary restoration works for the earthquake devastated areas. None of these materials, apart from some residual materials, can be characterised by requirements of necessity and urgency. Perhaps the exception is natural disasters, but even then I have serious doubts. Nor can we speak of homogeneity. The real only and great guiding thread of the measure is to remedy the sloppy, disorganic and rustled legislation that has characterized the thousand days of Renzi Government and that unfortunately this Government is terribly continuing. One example is tax matters. We warned the Government and the majority that the tax decree approved by the majority votes - I stress - at the close of last year identified problems and pathologies for the operators of the sector and, above all, for the recipients of the very important norm. This maneuver, between the universe of subjects that it is regulating, tries to solve - alas in vain, because we are accumulating errors on errors - problems determined by a previous tax legislation always implemented by decree - constitutes a pathology in the pathology of the pathology - which has created serious implementation difficulties. This applies to tax matters, such as public administration, real estate and voluntary disclosure. It is as if the Government were implementing telenovela legislation, which never ends, which makes no structural measures, but economic mistakes caused by the Government itself. Another example is the matter of vouchers. The much-proclaimed and flagrant jobs act has created immense problems for the labour market and will unfortunately continue to create them, as a large part of the contributory and social security drug implemented in previous years is failing and is leaving everyone in a crisis of abstinence, especially certain sectors of the labour market. The voucher sector - as my previous colleagues have reminded me - has been treated in a manichean and cutting manner with an axe stroke, which in itself represents a margin of unconstitutionality, obliterating a request for a referendum supported by the collection of signatures of citizens that that referendum asked for. Once again, in an arrogant and inconspicuous manner, the Government, without consulting anyone and identifying centers of interest in the representation of category and identifying only in itself the center of attribution of reason or wrong, has deleted an indispensable instrument for families, for businesses, for craftsmen and traders, not developing alternatives. Within this measure, we are trying to develop alternatives which, since one part of us considers identical to vouchers and another party considers that they are insufficient to meet the scope of the vouchers and the underlying requirements, are obviously ineffective. What will replace vouchers will not serve and will be more costly for families and insufficient for businesses, artisans, restaurateurs, the tourism sector and the agriculture sector. The measure will not suffice to give back what has been unjustly removed from both the substance and the content and the violation of the Constitution. With regard to the violation of the Constitution, of which the measure under consideration is an emblematic example - I would say an idealtype, a prototype - the reference is to Article 77 and to those constitutional precepts that establish that, if the people call the referendum, it must be done, even if it is disliked by the majority of government that has been traumatized a few months before. In addition, there are margins of inconstitutionality also in the uncertain and fallacious division of competences between the State and the Regions. One example concerns the local public transport sector. Article 27 intervenes on the fund that regulates the feeding of local public transport, increasing its size and, above all, modifying its allocation criteria. However, this means working with the State-Regions Conference not only by asking for a sloppy opinion, but by drawing up agreements, as the Constitution requires in Article 117, on the subject of shared competence. The Constitutional Court goes further, speaking of strengthened agreements. If in the meantime the Government has not consulted the State-Regions Conference and has not told us anything, then these agreements are not there. In addition to the elements of unconstitutionality relating to the competing competences between the State and the regions identified by the colleagues who preceded me, new margins of unconstitutionality therefore fall on the measure under consideration. Still, and not only that, there is the sector that last month perhaps embarrassed a part of the government team. We know that about a year ago there was a public selection, with the characteristics of internationality, for the appointment of directors of museums, from which appointments emerged which were subsequently cancelled by the regional administrative court. Each of us is informed of the Community legislation governing the right and freedom of establishment and each of us knows or should know that, when it comes to public officials or public service officials, the right of establishment does not apply, except in cases of derogation. Why has this Government, once again in a sloppy way, been subjected to the humiliation of having appointments cancelled by the regional administrative court? And, above all, how can you think that this pathology is cured within a dishomogeneous decree-law without violating clear parameters of constitutionality? Mr President, the time available to me is coming to an end and I should like to make a few brief remarks. We know that another characteristic trait of this Government - and above all the repercussions of its policy on local and territorial authorities - is the use of road code sanctions as an ATM - I am referring, in this case, to the use of speed camera - to feed municipalities that have suffered draconian cuts by the Government itself. Last year the citizens were vexed, for an amount of 1,700 million euros, by fines implemented through sanctions of the road code and never affect the safety sector. Even in this case, those fines and methods are confirmed without giving the mountain of money stolen from the pockets of citizens any destination constraint. Continuing, there are other absolutely pathological situations, as well as unconstitutional or in the smell of unconstitutionality. Just say three things. The objectives that this maneuver - yet another omnibus decree, uneven and unconstitutional, of this Government - wanted to achieve were clearly lacking. The measure has not consolidated the public accounts and has not implemented that simplification that for years - that is from the beginning of the Government that preceded the current, regarding which the latter moves in continuity - is promised in favor of all the sectors, in particular the fiscal and administrative ones. And, above all, it has not allowed to activate those growth levers that are absolutely indispensable to give the country antishock barriers. Let us not be pleased with the increase taken up by the International Monetary Fund: a minimum increase which, unfortunately, will be offset by the risk of severe shocks in the years to come. This handler doesn't need to. Everything that has been done - I repeat - in contempt of the Constitution will unfortunately not have any effect. That is why we are calling for the measure to stop its course in this Parliament at this stage. [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-06-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-838.ana.u38	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-06-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-838.ana.u39	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-06-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-838.ana.u40	VOLPI (LN-Aut). Mr President, it has already remained to posterity, to history, the passage of the December referendum from which two reliable data have emerged: the Senate retains its characteristics and the CNEL has been maintained. I therefore believe that it is precisely because of what we are dealing with, namely economic policy, financial issues and, in particular, work, on which a broad debate is taking place, that we should not prevent CNEL from giving us its opinion. I therefore ask you, Mr President, to put my request for the opinion of the CNEL to the vote, and of course I do not need to tell you that it must be voted on separately from the questions referred for a preliminary ruling, as this is a suspensive matter. However, I believe that this request is also important because, if the people have voted to maintain the CNEL, it means that it attaches meaning to that body and perhaps a qualified and qualified opinion also serves this House to make further reflection on certain issues. Mr President, I shall end my speech here. Of course, I imagine that there will be votes on the questions referred for a preliminary ruling and a vote on the suspensive issue, as provided for in Rule 93 of the Rules of Procedure. [[Applause from Senator Stefani.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-06-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-838.ana.u41	Pursuant to Rule 93 of the Rules of Procedure, a single discussion will take place on the questions referred for a preliminary ruling and will be open to one representative per Group for no more than ten minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-06-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-838.ana.u42	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-06-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-838.ana.u43	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-06-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-838.ana.u44	LO MORO (Art. 1-MDP). Mr President, I am taking the floor for the Group of the Party of European Socialists and Democrats and Progressive Democrats, and we are already voting against the prejudices. But we need to intervene in the debate, because we still want to make a difference. And there are some critical elements that we have repeatedly carried out in the places of this Parliament, in the Commissions, and also in the political places: this is the right place to repeat them, even if they do not determine our vote in favour of any of the issues raised. What is the issue I want to address? Many questions of merit, typical of maneuvers and the laws of stability, have been raised. These are matters that - as Senator Bernini said - are repeated. But I don't want to take my time talking about this. Instead I want to take advantage of it to talk about the rule on vouchers, because there is a very subtle issue there. Today, with the Act of the Senate 2853, we find this rule inserted, which in itself is absolutely legitimate, which has been introduced into the Chamber of Deputies and of which we could not be sorry for anything. Among other things, it was not even introduced by Decree-Law No. 50 of 24 April 2017, which today the Senate Act 2853 converts into law. So the government somehow gets away with it. Since Decree-Law No. 50 was issued about a month after the decree-law with which the legislation on vouchers was repealed (up to 17 March), the Government would appear to be in the position of those who did nothing particularly serious, except that the amendments very often are presented in the classrooms even at the request of the Government and in any case are approved with the favourable opinion of the Government itself (as happened in this case). So the theme is, in all its gravity, and it arises. Why is this a topic? We have been faced with a regulation on vouchers that has called for many contrasts even outside the building and on which a referendum has been presented that has collected millions of signatures. If I recall correctly, it was 3.300,000 signatures. The referendum was admitted and should have been held between 15 April and 15 June; the date was set for 28 May. We too thought that it could be avoided and it was not negative to try to avoid referendums with the adoption of shared legislation. But Decree-Law No. 25 of 2017 repealed the vouchers. What does this mean and what did it all mean? It meant that on 21 April the Court of Cassation issued an order suspending the referendum procedure in good time. The various circulars have been sent out on the territory and in fact the referendum has not been held and can no longer be held. Immediately afterwards, however, the House introduced legislation that, if it is not that of vouchers, is very similar. It is too easy to say that it is not that, because there is no term or because it is slightly different; there are those who wanted it in a way, those who wanted it more bland and who - as Forza Italia did just now - criticized it in completely different profiles. The serious thing, which concerns us, is that with this system, in fact, there has been a democratic snatch compared to a referendum that had been called democratically. Why? What was the natural course that a respected government and parliament should follow? Do you want to change the rule on vouchers? It could be changed: there is Law No 352 of 1970, as amended by Judgment No 68 of 1978, which would have allowed the Cassation to check whether the referendum should be transferred to the new legislation, or whether the referendum should not take place. On the other hand, the subject of referendum is closed and another one is opened: a new legislation on which, if necessary, new signatures will have to be collected. All of this does not seem democratic to us and, to see it, is not even procedurally correct. The question is who is responsible for raising this issue. This is why we did not present a question of reference, because in the opinion of the public (of this is being discussed and there are those who have dedicated very well written articles to the topic) it is the promoting committee that will be able to assert its own reasons, as the holder of those signatures (three million and 300,000) also dear to the Group that is today contesting this procedure, certainly not linear. It will then probably be the promoting committee that will have to raise the issue, with the only instrument I can see, that of the conflict of attribution. It will probably be the Constitutional Court which, incidentally, will be able to raise a question of constitutionality and perhaps obtain a further additional judgment on Law 352 of 1970, that on the referendum, which proves not to be exhaustive. In fact, perhaps no one had ever thought - and it had never happened - that Parliament could first remove rules and then replace them with others by circumventing a referendum. This hypothesis that has not been envisaged has never happened, because when we spoke about the rules on which the referendum was admitted, to change them, the Cassation could say yes or no, it is sufficient or not enough to eliminate the referendum, while in this case a procedure has been bypassed. All this therefore involves unconstitutionality and poses a huge political problem on a subject which, among other things - as someone said earlier - should be the subject of consultation and debate, especially when a trade union signature has collected a huge number of signatures. All this is a vulnus to democracy. All this means that this Government and this Parliament do not behave properly and have no respect for the opinions that so many, with democratic methods, carry out with a signature for a referendum: a democratic method by which an opinion is pursued. All this, however, does not lead us today to vote in favour of the question for a preliminary ruling, because we are aware of the tasks that the legislator has: the legislator amends the laws. Isn't Law 352 of 1970 okay? We should make sure that it's changed. So we are unarmed here and we are waiting for others, elsewhere, to come forward with a question of constitutional legitimacy, not of the law that is being converted today, but of referendum laws. To all this we are forced by a government that on vouchers did not want to listen, because so many criticisms were made by my Group in the Commissions and we are willing to overcome them, even those that, to be honest, are not insignificant, regardless of constitutionality: I am talking about merit. But on vouchers all this is not possible. On vouchers there is a very serious vulnus that has to do with procedures and, in the broadest sense, with constitutional issues. Therefore, while we reject the question of constitutionality, we are aware that something serious has happened and is happening and has to do with respect for democracy and our Constitution. [[Applause from the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and ……]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-06-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-838.ana.u45	I put to the vote the question referred for a preliminary ruling, with several reasons, by Senator Quagliariello and other senators (QP1), Senator Stefani and other senators (QP2), Senator De Petris and other senators (QP3) and Senator Bernini. It's not approved. MARTELLI (M5S). Let's ask for a rehearsal. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I order the doors closed. We proceed to counter-test by electronic procedure. It's not approved. I put to the vote the suspensive question, put by Senator Volpi, seeking the opinion of CNEL, pursuant to Rule 98 of the Rules of Procedure. It's not approved. MARTELLI (M5S). Let's ask for a rehearsal. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I order the doors closed. We proceed to counter-test by electronic procedure. It's not approved. He's enlisted to speak Senator Lucidi. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-06-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-838.ana.u46	Mr President, I am delighted that you are the one who is presiding at this time. At first I did not intend to speak on this subject because we had, as we always do, entrusted the competent Commission with the task of analysing and intervening in order to express the position of the 5 Star Movement. However, I am obliged to intervene for various reasons, among other things, previously expressed by some of our colleagues. We have already started talking about trust issues and someone - you too - said that it is almost a due act. I would remind you, however, what our position is: it is not we who must trust this Government and this majority, for a very simple reason: it is you who have lost it and it is you who must work to regain it. [[Brusio]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-06-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-838.ana.u47	I pray that those who want to leave the Chamber will do so in silence, so that Senator Lucidi can make his speech.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-06-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-838.ana.u48	LUCIDES (M5S). I'd just like to tell you what's going on these hours. We have accepted this enormous measure, as the rapporteur, Mr Santini, said, even calling it a narrow path. Indeed, we believe that, rather than a narrow path, this is a veritable cul-de-sac, because that is where you ended up with this majority. I do not know if you know, dear President, but yesterday a negative opinion was voted in the Committee on Foreign Affairs: the majority failed to express a positive opinion on what was brought to the Commission by the rapporteur, Mr Sangalli. Unfortunately, in addition to the opinions of the Commissions in paper form in this House, I see that there are not even on the Senate website. My intervention, therefore, is simply to leave it to the record, putting it out of the blue: both the Foreign Affairs Committee and, indeed, this morning the Environment Commission were unable to decide on that opinion which the majority, on the other hand, had brought to this House. Having said that, we believe that this is a fundamental step. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I take note of your problem. LUCIDES (M5S). I definitely don't have to give her permission. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Thank you. LUCIDES (M5S). We take note of the fact that, once again, our constitutional prerogatives and, in this case, the importance of the work in the Commission have been completely bypassed. Some of the articles in our Rules of Procedure clearly stress the importance of our opinions, but at this point we should all ask ourselves about our role. 12.15 p.m. (Follow Lucid). This is a visibly complex measure, and it is enough to see the volume allocated to a Commission which has been cleared in a few minutes. Even the majority, in a very superficial way - apart from the legal number, which is also guaranteed by our presence - cannot even guarantee the majority necessary to approve that opinion which was called upon by the President to express under the Rules of Procedure. My intervention is only focused on the procedure, so that what we believe is missing at the moment remains in the record: two Commissions have not been able to give a positive opinion on the measure under consideration. I want this report to remain in the record, precisely because neither in this House nor in the files that have been delivered to us nor on the website at the moment is there any trace of this. I think it is important that Italians also know this aspect of our current parliamentary life. Like the Italians, the Commissions are also hostage to the electoral drives of a former President of the Council totally delegitimized [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-06-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-838.ana.u49	Senator Tosato is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-06-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-838.ana.u50	Mr President, first of all, I think we need to ask ourselves a question about this decree-law, which is not simply about assessing its content, but about why corrective action is needed. I think the answer is easy: corrective manoeuvre has become necessary because the last financial law of the Renzi Government was an obvious propaganda maneuver, which contained interventions without any cover, as was evident to everyone so much that everyone was aware of it. It was in fact an electoral manoeuvre, with which the government intended to win the referendum and Renzi intended to affirm its political dominance almost uncontested for the next few years. Well, we all saw the results: despite the electoral manoeuvre, Renzi was sonorously defeated by the voters and sent home. Obviously, the task of putting together the pieces and putting order in the public accounts was the Government Gentiloni Silveri, who is adopting in this maneuver old methods, which are absolutely not those necessary for the economic growth of the country. It is essentially intended to put order in the public accounts dissected by the Renzi Government with an intervention that can be quantified in 3.1 billion euros, composed almost exclusively by the increase of the fiscal pressure, which reaches to represent almost 3 billion of this maneuver. It is therefore difficult to talk about measures for economic recovery and development, as this measure would like to say, with the usual lies and the usual written words, which, however, are not real or supported by the facts. It is therefore yet another failure, because it depresses the economy. The levy increases refer, for example, to the split payment instrument, through which enough damage has already been done to companies and craftsmen who work for the public administration: well, this measure, instead of eliminating this rule introduced by Renzi, even wants to make it even stronger and more restrictive towards those who work for the public administration, without understanding that subtracting resources from companies, in fact prevents them from working and paying contributions and employees, making them even more fragile. This is the first serious error of the measure we are examining. Moreover, there is a reduction in ACE, i.e. the measures which concerned business facilities; in fact, by increasing the tax base, taxes are increased for companies. In this case, too, it is a tax levy measure to a production system which, on the other hand, would need to be facilitated and certainly not new tax burdens. Another key issue concerns safeguard clauses. We want to affirm, through this measure, a reduction in the impact of the safeguard clauses, which in reality is absolutely minimal: of the 19 billion that the Letta Government intended to acquire from the increase of VAT and the increase of excise duties, there is an exclusively partial reduction. After five years - at the end of a legislature started with these clauses present, because the increase in VAT and excise duties on petrol will unfortunately be another very serious element for the country's economy - the Government, in the last act of its legislative activity, fails to cancel and sterilize them, and only postpones their application further. The task of the next law of stability, if ever we were to deal with a serious government, would be to eliminate them totally, leaving, in a responsible way, the next legislature and the next government a situation in which there is not this mortgage not only on the head of Parliament, but also of citizens and businesses. We see, however, that unfortunately we have not been able to achieve this point either. There would be so many issues to be addressed, but, last but not least, I would like to focus on the rules to support the earthquake zones. It is not a matter of intervention in favour of the affected areas, but of a pursuit of measures which were to be taken immediately by the Government and Parliament, and which were not taken, despite the fact that we had urged them from the outset, thus leading to a disastrous situation in those territories, which were also kept silent by the media, with appalling episodes, such as the drawing of temporary dwellings. Well, there's always a run to solve emergencies with months or years of delay. We had denounced him from the beginning through the speeches of our colleagues Arrigoni and Candiani and now the knots arrive at the comb. The problems come, with late measures, probably not decisive, with grave guilt against people who are in a situation of serious emergency. These are just a few issues, but there are many other negative ones in a measure that ultimately represents a clumsy attempt to correct the serious errors and serious responsibilities of President Renzi's last Government. We hope it will be the last of a long series of farce, ridiculous and, in some ways, negative measures for the country's economy. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-06-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-838.ana.u51	He's enlisted to speak Senator Bocchino. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-06-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-838.ana.u52	Mr President, I would like to speak on the so-called labour market in order to reflect with my colleagues on certain aspects of the measure, which I consider to be indicative of the way in which the government is conducting its policy on schools, universities and research. First of all, I would like to focus on something that we have debated for a long time in the 7th Commission, which I am sure will also be taken up by other colleagues: high artistic and musical training. In this measure there is an appropriation for the statization of 18 former music institutes and of the 5 historical academies. This is a long-awaited measure on the part of these institutions which, despite them, were in dire financial conditions due to the progressive decommitment of the local authorities on which they depended. This, Mr President, has been going on for a very long time. Some of these institutes have been on the verge of closure - some still have - and have survived thanks to commercial interventions, real rescues in extremis that have been inserted in the recent laws of stability, that have allowed them to float in a regime of transitoryness, precariousness, of mere subsistence that little befits authentic cultural garrisons in even difficult territories: I think for example to some institutes of Sicily, Region from which I come. The institute of Vibera, for example, carries on with dedication, professionalism and competence recognized at international level, important activities in a territory that - there is no need for me to repeat it once again - suffers from serious infrastructure deficiencies, a deep economic crisis. In my opinion, therefore, institutions such as musical and artistic ones can really be a starting point for the rebirth of the territory. Well, all this has been mortified, it has been in some way penalized by an absolutely short-sighted policy which, until now, has run at the last minute, even with great fanfare. Of course we thank the Government for the interventions that have followed and that have allowed this and other institutes to float but that basically ratify, once again, a shortsighted vision of the cultural policy of this Government. With this maneuver, we are faced with what should be - I stress should be because it is still to be shown that it is - the long-awaited and final statisation. I say it should be done first because the resources are completely insufficient for a complete statiszation of all institutions, and then because the process of statiszation is entrusted to a subsequent ministerial decree and we, of course, know that in this field - alas - the history of the implementing decrees of the laws was almost satirical. We know, for example, that Law No 508 of 1999 still lacks, after seventeen years, several implementing decrees, and this is one of the problems of the sector. Therefore, everything is referred to a subsequent decree and we are not aware of the details with which this statization will take place, if it ever will happen, so much so that even in the same article that speaks of statization there is a clause in which it is said that, in the mores of statization, the funds allocated to ordinary administration will be used, almost as if it was already known that the process may not go well, it may not begin or begin and sand for which they put their hands forward and it is said that these funds will be used for the ordinary rescues of the institutions. For God's sake, we are all happy that this happens, but once again we put our hands forward to say that we are probably not going to make it. Mr President, this kind of emergency policy is also a little - let us face it - a mockery, because we have been talking about it for years without any concrete measures. A cultural policy made in this way, in my opinion, is not worthy of a civilized country, of a country that would like to leave and that should start from these sectors. I would now like to talk about a missed opportunity, since statization is something that is, perhaps will be done, probably will not be done. However, one thing that is missing in this labour force, Mr President, and on which there has been a great debate in the House, concerns the so-called treasure of the Italian Institute of Technology. There are some amendments that insisted on this long-standing affair and also noted to the most, especially in the field of researchers, universities and research. The treasure trove of the Italian Institute of Technology, accumulated over many years, has been set aside thanks to the substantial state contribution of which this foundation under private law has benefited. Money allocated and unused, which IIT has not been able to exploit precisely because of the large funding it has enjoyed, unlike universities and research institutions, which have suffered from very heavy cuts in recent years. Well, on the use of this treasure, amendments have been tabled and a great debate has developed in the country, not only in the scientific community, but throughout the country, with various interventions, in the newspapers and in the press, for example by Senator Cattaneo, who has carried out this battle with force, but also by many others. I also remember the late Professor Bignami, who recently disappeared. It was asked to unlock these EUR 415 million accumulated over the years and to use it in public research: in some cases to finance PRIN funds. On the other hand, we propose, with an amendment that I tabled in the Senate, that they be used for the recruitment of precarious researchers. This has turned into a farce. Now it looks like this money's gone. There was a joint press release from the MIUR and the Italian Institute of Technology of 26 May last, in which it is said that only 250 of these 415 million will be used by the Institute of Technology that - you think - will become the status of a real public funding agency: a genuine twist, against which should be shouted and raised, because a foundation under private law is being given even the power of agency to finance public money received. Of these 250 million, which are no longer 415 (and we wonder where the remaining 165 have gone), IIT will decide what to do. A very scandalous attitude. A press release from the scandalous MIUR, on which Minister Fedeli should report in this House. I see that Deputy Minister Morando is here, that he should also say something about what happened to this little treasure, where this money went and what needs to be done. Let's return them to public research, return them to precarious researchers, among other things by complying with an online petition signed already by more than 5000 researchers. I hope that we will have a chance to do so, but that is probably not the case because the question of trust will be raised, and once again we will miss an opportunity to restore the dignity of research in this country. [[Applause from the Misso-SI-SEL Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-06-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-838.ana.u53	The mayor of the City of Armo, in the province of Imperia, to whom we address our greetings, is present in the gallery. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-06-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-838.ana.u54	She is registered to speak Senator Fasiolo. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-06-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-838.ana.u55	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to point out that the so-called maneuver with urgent financial provisions is a very important measure, which involves corrective action on the public accounts for 2017 of 3.1 billion, with an improvement effect of about 0.2 percentage points of GDP, and is the result of a correction already foreseen in the DEF 2017, on the basis of agreements between the Government and the European Commission. I think this series of interventions, many and defined in a very precise way by the report of Senator Giorgio Santini: from the extension of the field of application of split payment, special mechanism for the payment of VAT introduced by the law of stability 2015, applied in the relationships between private companies and public administration, according to the classic mechanism of divided payments; to the so-called web tax, that is to say to multinational non-resident companies with revenues above one billion euros, to the changes to the discipline of the reopening of the terms regarding the voluntary collaboration in fiscal matters, the so-called voluntary disclosure. In order to proceed, then, with various measures such as measures to combat undue tax compensation, to increase taxes on tobacco and games, to inhibit websites with offers of certain tobacco products or advertising of games and bets. Among the measures that affect the local finance sector, we have the provisions on territorial authorities that bring the granting of contributions to Provinces, Metropolitan Cities and Regions with ordinary statutes. Among other things, it is also essential to introduce provisions aimed at facilitating the approval of budgets by Provinces and Metropolitan Cities themselves and designed to change certain deadlines for entities declared bankrupt. Among the various provisions and measures of the so-called maneuverina, I would like to highlight the positive nature of the urgent measures relating to the areas affected by recent seismic events, for which three billion are allocated for the three-year period 2017-2019 and a fund is set up to accelerate reconstruction activities. I also think it is absolutely positive that further tax relief should be provided: in particular, the extension of the time limits for tax obligations and payments or their payment; the compensation of the municipalities for the loss of TARI revenue and the establishment - and this is a very important point in my opinion - of free urban areas in the municipalities of Lazio, Umbria, Marche and Abruzzo affected by recent seismic events. The planned allocation of funding to facilitate investments in the areas affected by seismic events aimed at companies in the tourism and commercial sector, but also favouring the resumption of farms affected by calamitous events, is very welcome. Also in other areas of the so-called maneuver, there are advantages for innovative start-ups, but there are also important measures regarding the work of disabled people, the biological school canteens, the school building, but also the increase of the staff of schools and autonomy. All this leads me to strongly hope that the urban free zones, or the special economic zones (SEZs), will be established, as already happens in some Member States of the European Union, also for other particularly depressed areas of the country, as well as those hit by the very serious calamitous events, especially those bordering and suffering from disadvantages resulting from different levels of taxation between neighbouring countries. The special economic zones are geographical areas with different economic legislation from the one in place in the country of origin: the ZES are aimed at attracting productive investments also abroad, the revival of the productive fabric, employment, competitiveness and development of the reference territories. The aim of the EEZs is to reduce the tax regime in order to facilitate rapid economic growth in the areas concerned. The creation of special economic zones (SEZs) should be more widespread in our country, as they are an instrument capable of relaunching competitiveness and employment in certain areas that today present a situation of particular economic and productive difficulty, in particular in the border areas of the State and, if you will allow me, I refer to the bill n. 2584, which I have presented, and to an agenda that I appreciated was approved by the Commission. I hope that the Government will undertake to open a table of confrontation with the European Union in order to evaluate the procedures and the modalities for the realization, also in our country, of special economic zones in certain territorial areas that present a situation of productive difficulty or that they suffer, also because of the territorial proximity with other States, competitive disadvantages deriving from different levels of taxation at the expense of the productive economic system and very different labor costs. [[Applause from Senator Santini]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-06-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-838.ana.u56	He is registered to speak Senator Barozzino. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-06-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-838.ana.u57	Mr President, there is everything in this measure, which is called a maneuver, but given the few minutes available, I will concentrate my speech on the re-introduction of so-called vouchers, which I think are first and foremost a real slap in the face of democracy. In my speech of April 19, 2017, I said that Senators and Senators of the Italian Left would vote for that measure, because in fact it canceled the vouchers. That was always our battle - who knows us, we don't even need to say it - and we did it because we have always respected and defended the Constitution; we were the first to do so (I remember our 5,000 amendments in this regard), because our Constitution - I would like to remind you - makes a very beautiful statement, that is, it establishes that our Republic is founded on work; a decent job and not the one bought in tobacconist, as you have reduced it. I even concluded that intervention by saying that we would of course vote for that measure (we were not used to voting for the measures of this Government and this majority that have deleted all forms of law in the world of work), but we would have done so because it was the result of a struggle, the fruit of democracy. I remember that the CGIL had collected 3.5 million signatures for that referendum and therefore for all these reasons we had voted for that measure. It is always expected that there will be common sense, at least that we will have a form of respect for all this process; instead we realize that at worst there is never an end and unfortunately we must take note of this. Speaker Santini, I am very careful when a person speaks, because I always respect the ideas of others, and when you said that the transparency of the new vouchers - as you said - will bring out the black work, I must say with deep respect that you have not read the measure under consideration, otherwise you say things that are not true. Let us take the text, so that the many or the few who listen to us know what we are talking about. Point 14 of Article 54-a reads as follows: (a) by users who employ more than five permanent employees. You don't understand where this rule comes from, but I tell you what will happen, because then, as always, you have to deal with reality, which perhaps escapes you. With this prediction you are telling one thing to the companies. I am too good, but in reality the work indefinitely you have canceled it, it no longer exists; well, you are telling the companies not to exceed the five employees, so they can do what they want. That's what you're actually saying. However, the worst claims are made in paragraphs 17 and 18, which states that the user referred to in paragraph 6 (b) is required to transmit the data on the use of vouchers at least one hour before the start of the service. You have been a trade unionist a bit like me and you should know how easy it is to circumvent these rules; because we have little time I cannot explain it, but you know these things better than I do. Take a good look at what you say in point 18: In the event that the work does not take place, the user referred to in paragraph 6 (b) shall communicate, through the INPS IT platform or using the contact centre services made available by the INPS, the revocation of the declaration transmitted by the INPS within the next three days. So black work emerges? I really don't know what you're talking about. I don't tell you what people think. I have also listened to several entrepreneurs who smile at these things; I wonder if you are not really in bad faith, because these measures are worse than vouchers. So not only have you not kept faith in an institution of democratic participation provided for in our Constitution - which we have defended and which you actually wanted to cancel - but then you do things that make no sense, you want to consider them in good faith; but it is clear that they are not. You really don't know what you're talking about, I mean it seriously: it's really depressing to talk about these things. Since the first day I have always thought of being in an Assembly where you could have different opinions - which are the salt of democracy - but doing these filthy things - excuse the term, I never use strong expressions - to hide one's inability to tell people the truth is really depressing: it is the defeat of politics. The Senators of the Italian Left don't want to participate in these defeats, because things can be shared or not but you have to tell the truth. We are obliged to tell the truth to those who listen to us (to the many people who listen to us remember that in a few days there will be a demonstration). Also you speed up this iter when there would be all the time needed to discuss seriously, because until the end of the year there are vouchers. We could really discuss it and, on the other hand, we were forced to close a debate in the Commission today in about forty minutes, because nothing could be said about it. I don't know if you realize what you're really up to. Each of us speaks for our Group: we have always said that we do not trust you. The facts are before everyone's eyes. If you need a measure of this nature to say that unemployment has fallen by 0.01 percent, you are way off the track because the measure can only serve such a purpose because we are not talking about work. I remind everyone, since it seems that before vouchers this type of work did not exist, that before there was contractual work, a decent job (as it must be). Dignified work is needed to restore a shred of dignity to the people to whom you have torn him with unheard of violence. We can't stand this at all. [[Applause from the Misso-SI-SEL Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-06-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-838.ana.u58	He's enlisted to speak Senator Boccardi. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-06-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-838.ana.u59	Mr President, Vice-Minister, ladies and gentlemen, the text of the decree-law, which we are not allowed to amend, mortifies in my opinion the role of the Senate, as if constitutional reform had been approved and this House abolished. However, we are faced with an adjustment of public finances which normally requires consideration of both branches of Parliament. Among other things, it is a maneuver with more than 130 articles dealing with a variety of themes and topics. In short, an omnibus measure that in the Chamber, every day that passed, was enlarged with new subjects and paragraphs. When it comes to maneuvering, maneuvering, deficit points, adjustment of accounts often citizens understandably get confused and are not in a position to understand what is really going on. I say this for those who listen to us at home: I believe that when it is said that the deficit is reduced by 0.2 points, from 2.3 to 2.1, the Italian citizens will have wondered what it means. Well, dear citizens, it means that taxes are being increased, because this is done by 2,921 million new revenue and only 181 million reduction in expenditure. Not only that, I would add that the increased revenue comes from VAT revenue calculation mechanisms, split payments, compensations and deductions that penalise businesses and freelancers. In short, the government instead of favoring those in this country who produce and work, tries to counter it in any way. For the earthquake of Central Italy there are no additional amounts for the current year and those planned for next year, equal to 885 million euros, have covers that will be confirmed at the end of the year by the budget law and that, however, are far less than the billions of euros that each year the Government allocates for the reception of immigrants. Ladies and gentlemen, let us be clear about this. In anticipation of an early and sudden end to the legislature, the majority of the Government put in this measure everything and more, without a logical criterion and perspective, trying to comply, or pretend to comply, with the demands of Europe, which warned us about the excessive deficit. It is a story already seen, with a finale already seen: a measure that puts a patch and, above all, puts its hands in the pockets of Italians, families and - forgive me - small businesses. I spoke of a majority government, but I should actually talk about government majorities. Let's think, for example, of the theme of vouchers, where a battle without excluding blows in the left has unleashed, which has lost sight of the reality of the problem and has instead focused on ideological and dogmatic arguments. Well, if the left outside and inside the Democratic Party wants to bring the government down, it is very free to do so, but they do not take vouchers as an excuse. You cannot use such a serious and important theme as the cause of a government fall. Vouchers are essential in some areas and are an opportunity for both workers and businesses. Whoever pretends not to understand it is in bad faith, or does not know at all the world of enterprise, or that of work. As I mentioned, in some sectors, such as tourism and agriculture, the use of vouchers for the regularization of precarious work and the emergence of undeclared work is useful, indeed necessary, because these sectors are characterized by occasional work performance. We must therefore clear the debate from ideological prejudices and look seriously at the real needs. The abolition of vouchers was a mistake. We must remedy this immediately, because otherwise there is significant damage to thousands of workers and all entrepreneurs, especially the smaller ones, who made a virtuous use of vouchers, bringing up work in black and offering employment opportunities, albeit temporary, to those who could not enter the labour market in the absence of vouchers. Another thing, however, is the perverse use that - alas - there was instrument from someone, but, as they say, it was necessary to avoid throwing the child with all the dirty water. It was just yesterday that the National Population Budget was published by ISTAT. Last year, nearly 115,000 of our fellow citizens left Italy to seek a better life in other countries. They are 12,000 more people than in 2015. Not only that, the depopulation of the South continues, with an uninterrupted flow of our young, and less young, who leave the southern regions and move north. If the government, by removing vouchers, penalizes precisely those sectors that are the excellence of the South, then I assure you that tourism and agriculture will die. To replace the old vouchers you have introduced, for families, the family booklet and, for companies, the new contract of occasional performance. We will see whether these instruments, which at the moment appear to be confused for us, will be useful or not. However, a diligent government cannot go blind by passing measures whose consequences are unpredictable. In conclusion, Mr Senators, Vice-Minister, members of the Government, we believe that we lacked - alas - the courage of structural responses to the problems of Italians and the concreteness that we asked for and hoped for for for Italian families and businesses.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-06-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-838.ana.u60	I shall refer the following to another session of the draft law. When the ballot boxes are closed at 1 p.m., we shall proceed with the speeches at the end of the sitting.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-06-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-838.ana.u61	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-06-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-838.ana.u62	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-06-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-838.ana.u63	STEFANO (Misto-MovPugliaMore). Mr President, I would have liked to have given up this speech, because almost a year later a new accident, still in Puglia, on the lines of the South-East Railways, once again places the issue of safety at the centre, which unfortunately not even the clamour of the tragedy and the victims of last July were able to guarantee and regiment. Between trains that depart without speed and dirty, as in the case I denounced yesterday of a Frecciargento left from Lecce under shameful conditions, photographed by the passengers (and are not acceptable nor sufficient the justifications that indicate it entered in substitution at the last minute of a damaged car), and the risk of safety that shamefully exceeds the minimum percentages previewed from the statistic, well, I believe that this complex, piled up and articulated problem of the railway of Salento and Puglia in general deserves a decidedly deeper reflection from the Minister of Infrastructures. To think still today of having to take a carrier that walks on a single-track network, with the intolerable risk of dying because there is the possibility that two of these trains meet in front of it, does not belong in any way to the contemporary logistics. I therefore call on you, Mr President, to report to the relevant Minister on the extraordinary initiatives that the Government intends to take. I remember that the government has been the owner of the South-East Railways for months. A few months ago, just after the tragedy of July last, I was also inspired by a bill that posed the issue of safety and that asked to subject to the same control body and to the same levels the railways given in concession and the railways belonging directly to the national network; but it was not given course to that address. I believe that today the subject is being presented with a dramatic topicality.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-06-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-838.ana.u64	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-06-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-838.ana.u65	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-06-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-838.ana.u66	Mr PUGLISI (PD). Mr President, never again announced deaths, we hope. Well they did the magistrates of Messina to condemn the attorney of Caltagirone for not having protected, in 2007, Marianna Manduca from the murderous violence of her husband Saverio Nolfo, despite the 12 complaints fallen into the void. This is the same condemnation that the European Court of Human Rights in Strasbourg sent to Italy in March of this year for the Talpis case. Even then the prosecutor had not acted to protect this woman, who had denounced domestic violence. Then his son died at the hands of her husband, while Mrs. Talpis was stabbed. For this reason, once again, for the lack of protection that has been given to this woman victim of violence, our country has been condemned. From the hearings we are holding with the Commission of Inquiry into Femicide and Gender Violence - I really thank the senators and senators for the work we are doing together - it is emerging as one of the crucial issues is the effective protection of high-risk victims. The institutions really need to protect women and intervene in an integrated way. The hearings we are holding in the Commission show that there are good coordination practices between law enforcement agencies, courts, anti-violence centres, social services and emergency services. In the United Kingdom, every feminicide is followed by a domestic homicide review, a careful and detailed analysis of the facts, to understand what was the weak link of the protection network that did not work. So a good practice also this, which can be adopted by our country and finally the magistrates of Messina were forerunners in this direction. But Mrs. Manduca's orphans need protection. That is why I really want to urge the Commission to bring the bill for orphans of feminicides to the House soon. Hence, even from this provision, which is in the hands of the Senate of the Republic, a new hope can come for all victims. What we particularly urge throughout the country for a radical change and the elimination of this serious form of violation of human rights is calling everyone to assume their responsibility: magistrates, operators of the Forces of Order and social services. Everyone must listen with great attention, not only to the complaints, but also to the great flood of suffering that suffers many women victims of domestic violence. [[Applause from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-06-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-838.ana.u67	I declare closed the vote by secret ballot for the election of a member of the Council of President of the Court of Auditors. Pursuant to Rule 25, paragraph 2, of the Rules of Procedure, I invite three Secretary Senators to proceed with the examination of the ballots and the calculation of the votes. Senators took part in the vote: Aiello, Airola, Albano, Albertini, Alicata, Amati, Amoruso, Angioni, Anitori, Aracri, Arrigoni, Augello, Auricchio, Azzollini Barani, Barozzino, Battista, Bellot, Bencini, Berger, Bertacco, Bertorotta, Caleo, Caliendo, Campanello, Candiani, Cantini, Capacchione, Cappelletti, Cardinals, Cardinals, Carraro, Casini, Cassinelli, Castaldi, Catalfo, Centinio, Ceroni, Cervellini, Chiti, Cioffinnà, Cocincich, Collina, Colucci, Casino, Cassinelli, Cusaldi, Centinio, Centignone, Cantini, Chiti The sitting is suspended. (Secretary Senators proceed to count votes). (The sitting was suspended at 13.01 p.m. and resumed at 1.35 p.m.)
ParlaMint-IT_2017-06-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-838.ana.u68	I declare the result of the secret ballot vote for the election of a member of the Council of President of the Court of Auditors: [[Senators present 266 Senators voting 265]] He got votes: [[Saitta Antonio 162 Dispensi 7 Scheda bianche 55 Scheda nulle 41]] Proclaim elected Professor Attorney Saitta Antonio.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-06-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-838.ana.u69	The motions, questions and questions received by the Presidency will be published in Annex B to today's report. I recall that the Senate will return to public session today, at 4.30 p.m., on the same agenda. The sitting was closed at 13.36 p.m.
