ParlaMint-IT_2017-09-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-873.ana.u1	The sitting is open (9.35 a.m.). The Minutes shall be read. Mr Amati, secretary, read the Minutes of the sitting of 2 August. PRESIDENT. - The debate is Since there were no comments, the Minutes were approved.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-09-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-873.ana.u2	The list of senators on leave and absent on assignment received from the Senate, as well as further communications to the Assembly, will be published in Annex B to today's Minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-09-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-873.ana.u3	I would warn you that qualified votes can be taken in the course of today's sitting by electronic means. Therefore, from this moment on, the period of 20 minutes from the notice provided for in Article 119 (1) of the Regulation (9.40 a.m.).
ParlaMint-IT_2017-09-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-873.ana.u4	The next item is the joint debate on draft law Nos. 2874 and 2875. The speakers, Senators Fravezzi and Guerrieri Paleotti, requested permission to carry out the oral report. No comments were made and the request was accepted. I therefore call the rapporteur on draft law No 2874, Senator Fravezzi.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-09-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-873.ana.u5	Madam President, Mr Vice-Minister, ladies and gentlemen, the general statement includes - as is well known - the balance sheet and the general balance sheet of value-added assets, as well as the summary accounts annexed to certain government administrations with autonomy. The draft budget for 2018 will take, inter alia, as a reference basis for the assessment of liabilities, the final findings contained in the 2016 financial statements, which are also highlighted in the 2017 settlement bill, which will then be explained, for the determination of any adjustments to payment authorisations. The economic statement, which sets out the economic results for each Ministry and the reconciliation statements with the results of the financial statements, is annexed to the bill. In addition, an illustration of the results of expenditure on programmes having an environmental nature or content is attached in order to highlight the resources used for environmental protection purposes. Thanks to the innovations made to the accounting law with the addition of Article 47-a by Legislative Decree No. 93 of 2016, to this statement are also attached quantitative indications about the mediation carried out by the Treasury of the State on the sums paid by the State budget. With reference to the results of the management of competence, overall, there is an improvement of the balances both with respect to the definitive forecasts, as result of the law of settling 2016, and with respect to the results achieved in the exercise 2015. In particular, the net balance to be financed from the State budget for 2016 has a negative value of 11,1 billion euros, with an improvement of 30,4 billion compared to the balance recorded in 2015, which had instead settled at a negative value of 41,5 billion. Compared to the final forecasts, this balance was better than 27.8 billion, as it was expected to be at a negative value of 38.9 billion euros in 2016. Objectively there has been a not indifferent improvement. The primary surplus (balance of current, capital and financial transactions net of interest payable) was EUR 60,472 million (3.6% of GDP), 27,494 million higher than in 2015. The balance of current transactions (public savings) in 2016 was EUR 27.8 million. There is an improvement of EUR 36.9 million compared to 2015, which is to be compared with both the increase in current revenue (plus EUR 16.7 billion) and the decrease in current expenditure - which has been the usual problem for years - which has decreased by EUR 20.2 billion. The use of the market (difference between the final revenue and the total expenditure, including those relating to the repayment of loans) was finally attested in 2016 to a value of less than €207.1 billion. Also this balance is in improvement regarding 2015, attesting itself to a value lower of approximately 50 billion. The total amount of income checks, including loan ignition revenues of €845.9 billion, shows a positive trend compared to the previous year (€16.8 billion, which represents about 2%). This increase is the result of the increase in current revenue of 16.7 billion, while the decrease in revenue for the disposal and depreciation of assets and the collection of claims of 5 billion is offset by the increase in loans (5.1 billion). Total expenditure commitments, including loan repayment expenditure, amount to EUR 788.4 billion and show a total reduction in expenditure commitments of EUR 38.2 billion compared with the previous year. There is, therefore, a decline of 4.6 percent. As far as current expenditure is concerned, commitments amounted to EUR 549.6 billion, down from the previous year by EUR 20.1 billion, or 3.5%. For capital expenditure, with commitments of €42.8 billion, the 2016 statement shows a slight increase compared to the previous year of €1.5 billion (3.6 percent). However, this amount is far from that achieved in other years, such as in 2014, when capital expenditure reached 76.8 billion. Looking at the historical series since 2008, the year under review was in fact the one with the lowest capital expenditure after 2015. And this is an element on which the Government must reflect and respect which I hope that expectations, under the budget law, can be met in terms of investment and, given the availability that will be there, relaunched. The weight of total expenditure, in relation to GDP, decreased from 50.24% of GDP in 2015 to 47.14 percent in 2016. Turning then to the management of the residues, the amount of the same in the year 2016 has remained at considerable levels, also because of the normative changes introduced from the legislative decree no. 93 of 2016, that have previewed the increase of the term of conservation of the residuals of expenses in capital account and the current transfers to the public administrations, bringing them from two to three years. In addition, it is no longer expected that passive residues of the current part will perempt after two years, but will be re-established by the administrations. In summary, the residue account at 31 December 2016 exposes active residues of €212.2 billion and liabilities of €134.4 billion, with an active surplus of €77.8 billion. Active residues increased by around 4 billion (almost 2 percent more) compared to 2015, while the increase in passive residues was around 21.4 billion (equivalent to 18.9 percent). In particular, the increase in total active residues is linked not to those of new training, which have been reduced by 4.7 billion, but to those coming from previous years, increased by 8.7 billion. The increase in passive residues is also attributable not to those of new formation, which remain stable at around 66 billion, but to the considerable decrease in losses which, due to the aforementioned regulatory changes, have decreased by 86%. In fact, some 16.4 billion of residuals were retained, which would have gone into peremption if there had not been an extension of one year of the budget conservation period. The accounts then show the results of the cash management: it should be recalled in this regard that the management of competence and the management of the residues contribute to determining the results of the cash management, which is represented, for the part of income, by the receipts and, for the part of expenditure, by the payments. In general, cash management has a similar trend to that of competence, with an improvement both on the final forecasts and on the results achieved in 2015. The general account of the assets shows a passive surplus of 1,798 billion, with a deterioration of approximately 39.6 billion compared to the balance sheet at the end of 2015, due to an increase in liabilities (about 63.9 billion) only partially offset by the increase in assets (increased by 24.4 billion). In particular, total assets amounted to 987 billion euros, of which 675.9 billion financial assets (up 18.8 billion compared to 2015); 306.8 billion non-financial assets produced, including tangible and intangible assets produced, raw materials and intermediate products, finished products, valuables and art objects (mobile assets of cultural value, libraries and archives), up 5.5 billion compared to 2015; 4.2 billion non-financial assets not produced, including non-produced tangible assets, i.e. land, deposits and non-cultivated biological resources (stable compared to the previous year). The total liability amounts to approximately 2,785 billion and refers entirely to liabilities of a financial nature. This is the weight that, unfortunately, has our country system and which has been dragging for years. The Court of Auditors' judgment of equalisation revealed certain irregularities listed in the report submitted to Parliament. In particular, the Court of Auditors noted, in the decision taken in the judgment of equalisation, on the revenue side, chapters and articles for which differences are found between the data set out in the accounts and those of the periodic accounts of the administrations; chapters and articles for which the collection of residual accounts carried out in the financial year has a value of zero shown in the accounts, despite the fact that the calculated data is of negative value. In order to overcome these discrepancies, the Department of the General Accounting of the State has started several activities also with the territorial offices that follow the management of different revenue erariali, aimed at improving the representation of the managerial results and, consequently, to limit the interventions of correction operated in the preparation of the account (such as the procedure of compensation for the elimination of the active residues that present negative signs). I would also point out that there is a continuous technical comparison between the General Accounting Office of the State and the Court of Auditors aimed at gradually deepening the specific issues repeatedly pointed out by the Court itself. As regards the remaining items to be paid into the residual account, the Court notes the increase recorded in 2016 compared to 2015. In this respect, it is noted that the increases are being re-absorbed and will be subject to accounting regulation in the current year. On the expenditure side, however, the Court noted the irregularities in the chapters presenting surpluses in the accounts of jurisdiction, residues and cash, concerning all the administrations of the State, with the exception of the Ministry of the Environment and the protection of the territory and the sea. The department notes that the surpluses generated at the expenditure chapter level are offset by the economies recorded within the voting unit. It should be noted that a specific article in the draft law approving the accounts is devoted to proposing a legislative sanatorium for excess expenditure (surpluses) in relation to any final appropriations in each voting unit, if they are not offset by the economies achieved within the voting unit itself. The surpluses recorded mainly relate to fixed expenditure (wages, salaries and other fixed staff allowances, including social security contributions and IRAPs), the payments of which are made in a very specific manner provided for in the Accounting Act (in almost all cases by the execution of fixed expenditure roles). They have a rigid temporary articulation, so the accounting takes place only after the end of the financial year, generating a redundancy of commitment/payment compared to the forecasts, resulting in the formation of surpluses. The indisputability and indisputability of the expenditures themselves mean, moreover, the essential nature of their payment and, therefore, the occurrence of the surplus. With regard to the evolution of the liabilities for 2016, it is noted that the innovations introduced by Legislative Decree No. 83 of 2016 (i.e. the reform of the balance sheet) have influenced this trend. Article 6 of the aforementioned Decree amended the rules on the accounting regime for passive residues, with particular reference to the rules on the conservation of balance sheet residues, as well as to the activities for the annual verification and re-assessment of passive balance sheet residues and residual liabilities; therefore, the 2016 trend is justified not in line with that of 2015. In terms of assets, the supervisory body has found discrepancies and omissions in the real estate of the Ministries of Economy and Finance, Defence and Infrastructure and Transport; the movable property of eight Ministries; the active and passive residues of the posts of the Ministry of Economy; the Ministry of Defence's spare fund; the loans granted to public bodies and credit institutions of the Ministry of Economy. The differences and omissions detected by the Court of Auditors stem from the difficulties encountered in integrating computer systems. The institutions concerned are working to resolve them, given the findings. Finally, with regard to the Court's observations on the assets account, the Accounting Note notes that the 2010 Sec classification has not yet been adopted. The application has been postponed over time for reasons of cost-effectiveness and efficiency. For further comments and further details refer to the documents which are to the documents. Allow me a small consideration, since the statement becomes difficult to comment on. In my opinion, there are some positive elements that must be highlighted, with the series of economic policies of the Government approved by this Parliament which begins, with respect to the Earnings of previous years, to bear fruit, and objective data testify to this. Without triumphalistic tones, I think that this account and subsequent settlement are one of the best premises for preparing a budget law that can meet certain expectations. I repeat, albeit with balance and prudence, that I am convinced that there are all the conditions for doing so, after the work done in recent years. In my opinion, however, it is not always sufficiently stressed that the first results, in a punctual manner and through numbers and figures, start objectively to manifest themselves. I would like to point out, for example, the issue of financing public debt and reducing interest expenditure, which was also a matter of great concern. I remember that as soon as we entered these Palaces, we traveled around 90 billion euros, while today we spend 15 billion less to finance the debt. It is clear that then, with respect to this, more political reflections are opened, linked to the stability and perspective of the country. I think, however, that it should be noted that many of the policies we have approved and proposed by the Government are beginning to bear fruit, and I think it is appropriate to stress that. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I call the rapporteur on draft law No 2875, Senator Guerrieri Paleotti.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-09-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-873.ana.u6	Madam President, Mr Vice-Minister, ladies and gentlemen, the draft budget settlement law for the financial year 2017 consists of three articles and is accompanied by tables with reference to the estimates of revenue and expenditure, broken down by Departments and autonomous administrations. The draft law under consideration is the first to be prepared in accordance with the amendments made by Legislative Decree No. 90 of 2016 and by Law No. 163 of 2016 to the Law of Accounting and Public Finance (Law No. 196 of 2009) and in particular Article 33, which regulates the adjustment and changes in the balance sheet. With the amendments mentioned above, the flexibility margins granted to the administrations have been put in place and a constraint on the balance of the programmed cash balance has been provided for, which is in addition to that of competence. The text was accompanied by a technical report illustrating the consistency of the value of the net balance to be financed (or used) with the public finance policy objectives. It was also envisaged that the technical report should analyse the effects of the main changes proposed to the State budget and their effects on the net debt of general government. The formal legal nature of the adjustment remains unchanged, as the budgetary forecasts contained therein must be formulated in the current legislation. With regard to all the changes resulting from administrative acts and proposed in the draft law under consideration, a net balance is determined to be financed, in terms of competence, of around 56 billion euros, with a deterioration of 17.4 billion compared to the figure indicated in the draft budget law 2017 (38.6 billion). With regard to the cash balance, the deterioration of the balance amounts to approximately EUR 20 billion, with a net balance to be financed ranging from EUR 102.6 billion to EUR 122.6 billion. This is due to changes in administrative acts of less than 21.9 billion in terms of competence and less than 21.8 billion in terms of cash, which are only partially offset in settlement proposals with improvements of approximately 4.5 billion and 1.8 billion euro respectively. For the sake of complete information, it should be noted that, on the revenue side, proposals for changes lead to an improvement in net debt of approximately EUR 1 billion, which are offset on the expenditure side by a deterioration of equal amount, so as to result in a zero overall effect. Compared to the initial forecasts of the fiscal law for 2017, the data contained in the 2017 settlement bill - expressed in terms of competence and considered net of the debit, accounting and VAT refunds - show an improvement of the public savings alone and a worsening of the net balance to be financed, of the recourse to the market and of the primary surplus. The net balance to be financed (corresponds to the difference between final revenue and final expenditure) shows a negative change of overall sign of 17,4 billion, a value however consistent with the maximum limit set out in Annex 1 to the 2017 Budget Act, as subsequently amended. The forecast of the balance is determined by a deterioration of 21.9 billion for administrative acts and an improvement of 4.5 billion for the proposals made by the draft law under consideration. The latter category is the result of an increase in revenue of 2.8 billion and a reduction in interest expenditure of 1.9 billion, partly offset by an increase in current and capital expenditure of around 300 million euro. With regard to public savings (from the difference between current and current expenditure before interest), the forecasted forecasts improve, compared to the initial ones, by a value of 2.9 billion. Market use data (equal to the difference between final revenue and total expenditure, the latter from the sum of final expenditure and loan repayment) show a negative impact on the balance of 12.4 billion, from around EUR 293.1 billion to around EUR 305.5 billion. A figure to be emphasized is the significant worsening of the primary surplus that, in the transition from the initial forecasts to those arranged, undergoes a half-life, bringing to little more than 19,3 billion euros. As far as final revenues are concerned, the forecast is set to increase by 5.3 billion compared to the initial ones, as a result of an increase in tax revenues by 1.8 billion and extra-tributary revenues by 3.5 billion. The forecast for final expenditure increased by 22.7 billion. With regard to variations by administrative act, on the tax revenue side there are changes in increase for about 370 million euros. On the side of the extra-tributary revenues there are variations in increase for little more than 2.1 billion, which are almost exclusively referable to the application of measures subsequent to the budget law, of which 2 billion attributable to the implementation of article 1, paragraph 433, of the same budget law, that has previewed the payment at the entrance - in order to feed the Fund for the financing of interventions in favor of the territorial authorities - of the residues relative to the advances to the Regions for the payment of certain debts, liquid and payable and of the sums available on the special accounts established for the restructuring of the regional debt. Changes by administrative act increased expenditure by 24.4 billion as a sum of 4.1 billion more current expenditure and 20.3 billion capital expenditure. The increase in current expenditure is attributable to changes in employee income (1.8 billion) due to reallocations of the relative amounts of ancillary staff skills that had been paid at the end of 2016 and current transfers to public administrations for the allocation of around 900 million euros to the Fund for the re-registration of current part residues and about 100 million euros for transfers to municipalities that receive international protection applicants. The increase in capital expenditure (equal to 20.3 billion) is attributable to the effects of Decree-Law 237 of 2016 (the so-called saving-saving decree), which resulted in an increase in the acquisition of financial assets by 20 billion, an increase in investment contributions to public administrations by 215 million and gross fixed capital formation by 146 million, as well as lower capital transfers by about 190 million. The settlement proposals formulated with the draft law under consideration improve public finance balances both by increasing revenues (plus 2.8 billion), and by reducing final expenditure (less 1.6 billion) and the repayment of financial liabilities (less 5 billion). With reference to the final expenses the reduction of 1.65 billion is attributable to the substantial reduction of the expenditure on interest pairs to 1.95 billion euros (sum of 1.15 billion for the dynamics of the interest rates and of 0,8 billion for lower interest on the current accounts of treasury), that therefore mitigates the increase of 253 million of the current expenditure net of the interest and 45 million of the expenditure on capital account; within these last items the following variations are indicated. Firstly, changes in cash permits mean that all balances, with the exception of public savings, are worse compared to the initial forecasts. The magnitude of the worsening of the net balance to be financed is about 20 billion, while the need to resort to the market is an increase of 15,2 billion, reaching the amount of almost 372 billion; the primary surplus, starting from the negative value of almost 23,4 billion, reaches an equally negative amount of little less than 45,7 billion, with a worsening percentage of little less than 96 percent. Public savings alone improve by 3.3 billion from around 61.2 billion to around 57.9 billion. On the other hand, noteworthy is the difference of almost 2.7 billion euros between the consistency of final expenditure in terms of competence and those in terms of cash, explained by the disposal of passive residues. In particular, with regard to capital expenditure, these recorded an increase of only 45 million with reference to the appropriations of competence and of almost 2.5 billion in cash terms, due to the proposed changes in relation to the actual size of the residual liabilities of the capital account, which weigh on the item in cash terms, and whose payment is already considered in the trend estimates of public finance. On the other hand, as regards current part expenditure, in order to dispose of current part residues, proposals are made for the integration of cash envelopes explaining the difference between the latter and the corresponding proposals for adjustment in terms of competence. Then there are a number of settlement proposals concerning the missions. The composition of the changes formulated by the arrangement, articulated precisely for missions, highlights a number of elements, including the most significant changes, which concern, first of all, the lesser need for repayment of international loans, with a reduction of the mission "Public debt" equal to 6.15 billion in terms of competence and 6.4 billion in terms of cash. There are also lower expenses of the social security policy mission, amounting to €1.2 billion (competence and cash), attributable to the adjustment of the actual needs of the INPS. The reduction in expenditure of the financial relations with the territorial self-governments is approximately one billion in terms of competence (841 million in cash terms), mainly due to the lower accounting adjustments of the revenue collected by the Regions under Special Statute, with reference also to previous years. There is also an increase in the expenses of the mission "Political for work" by 1.4 billion in terms of competence and 1.3 billion in terms of cash, due to the increased burdens related to the treatments of the extraordinary IGC and related treatments at the end of the relationship. Then I quote the increase of 990 million (in cash only) of the mission "Civil rescue" following the assignments in favor of the special offices to the Eagle and the municipalities of the crater for reconstruction. Finally, there is an increase of more than 550 million (competence and cash) in the heading "Immigration, reception and guarantee of rights" due to the increased needs resulting from the increase in migratory flows. At 31 December 2016, the residual liabilities for the final expenditure of the state budget amounted to EUR 134.1 billion, of which 66.1 billion new training, i.e. deriving from the management of the competence of the 2016 financial year, while 67.9 billion came from previous years. The increase of 24.4 billion of the final liabilities is attributable to the increase of those of current part to 18.6 billion and those of capital account to 5.8 billion. An important point is the consistency between the policy balances of the state budget and the policy objective. The technical report shall provide in this respect elements on the consistency between the policy balances of the State budget and the policy objective set out in the Economic and Finance Document (deleted by the Council of Ministers on 11 April 2017 and amended by the State budget adjustment measure) through a correlation table between the net balance to be financed from the State budget-adjusted forecasts and the programmed public administration account settled for 2017. The net debt of the audited balance sheet amounts to less than €34.8 billion, the debt associated with the profit and loss account of the public administration, including the forecast of the balance sheet, is equal to less than €39.6 billion and, finally, that relating to the programmatic profit and loss account of the public administration, including forecasts arranged and integrated with the financial effects of Decree-Law No 50 of 2017, is equal to less than €36.5 billion. Finally, the individual provisions of the settlement bill intervene on certain provisions of the Budget Act for the financial year 2017 (Law No 232 of 11 December 2016). In particular, article 2 paragraph 1, which, by amending paragraph 2 of Article 3 of the Budget Law for 2017, increases the maximum amount of issuance of public bonds in Italy and abroad for the year 2017, net of those to be repaid and for debit adjustments, compared to the 59,5 billion provided by the Budget Law. Paragraph 2, which amends paragraph 3 of Article 3 of the Budget Law for 2017, regarding the quantification of the maximum amount of commitments that can be assumed by SACE SpA for the financial year 2017, transfers resources from short-term guarantees to medium- and long-term guarantees. In particular, guarantees lasting up to two years are reduced from EUR 5 billion to EUR 2 billion and guarantees lasting longer than two years are increased from EUR 14 billion to EUR 17 billion. Finally, Article 3 of the measure, which corrects the name of the fund to be allocated for the accounting arrangements for consignments entered in the suspended account included in the estimates for the 2017 financial year, should be referred to as the fund for the accounting arrangements for consignments entered in the suspended account. It is also expected that the Minister of Economy and Finance, in addition to allocating the resources of the Fund among the estimates of the Ministries concerned, can also allocate the same resources directly to the managing institution of the Treasury of the State also in residual accounts. The latter, in accordance with the measure in question and according to the scheme submitted by the Department of the General Accounting of the State, shall ensure the identification and regulation of each lot, providing the Ministry of Economy and Finance-Department of the General Accounting of the State and the competent administration with information on the operations carried out. These are, broadly and synthesised, some of the many relevant aspects contained in the settlement bill. Madam President, I would like to conclude with a few more general considerations, because I believe it is important to include the data on the adjustment of the 2017 budget in a context which naturally concerns the most important economic data of this year, namely the confirmation that our economy is growing and that this growth is consolidating and is in the process of being significantly accelerated. Let's remember that in the first half of the year GDP has returned to growth tending to 1.2% and that it is estimated for the whole year 2017 a further increase up to 1.5%. Of course, positive contributions have come from the European and international context, which is significantly improving, but also from the implementation of the economic policy measures decided and launched by the Government over the past few months, but also in recent years. As regards the public finance framework, 2017 should close with a deficit (i.e. net debt) of 2.1% of GDP. Here, too, there is an improvement over the previous year, due to the effects of economic growth, but also to fiscal consolidation measures, including corrective action taken before the summer. As pointed out several times, it is essential for our country's economic policy to be able to combine the more general strategy of support and recovery of growth with a reduction in the government deficit and the debt-to-GDP ratio, which must be credible and sustainable over time. This is the narrow path they have talked about and to which the Minister of Economic Affairs and Finance often refer and, in general, our Government. It should be said that this strategy of the path has begun to bear the first positive fruits in particular this year. These are important results that must be underlined, although it must be added that the way forward for our country's economic policy remains in some way long and difficult, because we want the stock of public debt not only to decrease in relation to GDP, but also to be brought back to more than sustainable dimensions, while maintaining a policy of support for recovery. As we know, this year - according to forecasts, also next year - the European world economy is stabilizing on a path of sustained growth, which signals an increase in growth dynamics compared to the previous year. This tendency to improve the economic situation appears to be shared by most areas of the world economy and it has been the first time for about ten years. It is clear that our country has the opportunity to continue and consolidate its growth path at an equally sustained and even more sustained pace than the current one. This will, of course, also allow us to put the debt-to-GDP ratio on a significantly descending path. Our choices as a country will therefore be very important and nothing can be achieved if we do not maintain political stability and if we do not continue to develop and accelerate the process of internal reforms. I shall conclude, therefore, by saying that we need to support the economic recovery, by continuing to ensure the consolidation of our public finances, as we have done in recent years and especially in the most recent period, because we believe that this is the only way that will help our country to seize this opportunity of expansion in many ways unique that is emerging at international and European level. [[Applause from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-09-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-873.ana.u7	I declare the joint general discussion open. Senator Mandelli is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-09-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-873.ana.u8	Madam President, representatives of the Government, colleagues, the 2017 session and the 2016 report are the last documents that photograph the economic policy of the center-left in the last four years. The majority is the same and the governing body essentially the same, with the same Minister of Economy and Finance who has determined the performance of the public accounts, both with the Renzi Government and with the Gentiloni Government. Of course, former Prime Minister Renzi is claiming success in recent days on the basis of GDP projections, seen as a trend growth of 1.5% and on the basis of ISTAT data on employees. In fact, both data are unflattering when compared with those of other European countries, which have engaged the international recovery with rates on growth and employment far superior to ours and especially when compared with pre-crisis levels. And still we are wondering whether this weak recovery is cyclical or structural, when in reality it is mainly linked to exogenous factors. The figure on public debt, of course, is never quoted, but it is the one that will have the greatest impact on public finances, since it has now come close to 2,300 billion, after four years of public accounts in deficit: 233 billion more debt than when the adventure of this central-left government began, almost 390 billion more than the last government of Silvio Berlusconi. The result: the million jobs claimed by Renzi are largely fixed-term, while on the Italians, unfortunately, we will count 2,300 billion debt that are indefinitely. The numbers behind the adjustment will affect both the Update Note to the Economy and Finance Document and the Budget Act for 2018. The main budgetary balances have negative values. The net balance to be financed by 17 billion goes up. The primary surplus of more than 19 billion goes down, photographing the difference between revenue and final expenditure, net of interest. It should be noted that both final expenditure (almost 23 billion) and final revenue rise as a result of an increase in taxes and taxes for more than five billion, and we are certainly not pleased about that. The latter is a figure that can not only be the result of the weak increase in GDP in 2017, nor the result of the fight against evasion, but it points to a real increase in the tax levy. Final expenditure is due to a reduction in interest expenditure due to the monetary policies of the European Central Bank. The migratory phenomenon is eaten another half billion, further than the initial budget forecasts. We have tried to amend the rich places reserved for migrants, turning them in favour of Italian families, increasingly in difficulty, considered, moreover, that much of this money besides feeding a flow for now reduced, but not stopped, towards Italy, they nourish many clientele and very bad business. We tried, in fact, to move some money in favour of families and the elderly, but we were faced with an incomparable text. In addition, current expenditure is still rising and this is an absolutely negative indicator, because it also remains as a legacy to the next Commission. This figure indicates, moreover, that little has been done on the side of spending review and in fact increases the expenditure linked to changes in income from employees. There is still a lack of revision of the organic plants of the public administration, which certainly cannot be done with the snapping of fingers, but in an entire legislature we could certainly begin and which, on the other hand, has not been done. The revision was carried out, instead, with the cuts to the territorial authorities, especially to the Municipalities, forced to decrease the services and the investments on the territories of competence, as well as on the agencies of wide area like the provinces, handicapped but never abolished, that we will return to finance little in 2018 and a little more in 2019. Basically, we are faced with an unfinished review that empties these territorial authorities of resources and competences. We will have to start thinking seriously - as Commissioner Cottarelli had done - about the opportunity to cut certain organic plants also at the central level and of the participating societies. Among other things, intermediate consumption expenditure rises, but only a figure of less than half a billion has been used to pay past debts to companies. The next government will inherit at least (and I say at least) 10 billion to be paid to our companies and on this we will have to arrive to a solution in order to finally dispose of the certified backward, starting to introduce European times in order to solder those supplying goods and services to the public sector. In the real economy, savers must continue to invest, given that the measures taken work (i.e. the RIPs), further facilitating all forms of sustainable investment. This is the only antidote to financial speculation that bites and escapes. We are absolutely convinced that savings and investment benefits can have a greater effect on economic growth than the measure of EUR 80. Of course, the most important consideration is that much of the recovery is due to the ECB's monetary policy, just as the government bond purchase plan has given less burden on public debt and this is certainly good for the state accounts. The purchase of corporate bonds also marked a direct step by the Central Bank in support of the real economy. Therefore, we are aware that after the general elections, we will have to worry not so much about who will be the new Minister for Economic Affairs, but about who will be the new Governor of the European Central Bank so that he can continue those policies that have done us so well in recent years. To conclude, draw the sums of the numbers of this report for 2016 and this adjustment for 2017, the documents under consideration indicate above all the economic policies "of referral" adopted in recent years - we have got used to it but we must strongly denounce it - such as, for example, one-off revenues, largely ineffective bonuses, safeguard clauses postponed from year to year. I would remind the House that there are 73 billion clauses still standing by, ready to take action in the coming years. The announced maneuver of 25 billion seems to be inserted in the same groove as those that preceded it, so we do not expect any reversal of course that can help the country. The vote against the Senators of the Forza Italia Group on these public accounts is therefore serious, thoughtful and convinced but also very concerned. [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-09-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-873.ana.u9	Senator Ceroni is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-09-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-873.ana.u10	Madam President, today we are examining the draft law approving the general government statement for 2016 and the draft law on the provisions for the adjustment of the state budget and the budgets of the autonomous administrations for 2017. The first act is nothing more than the balance sheet of the Italian State 2016 which has been submitted to the Court of Auditors. The law states that this document should be presented to Parliament in June, but it is good that the House does not know about these things or learns about them only relatively because the results are so disastrous that it is better not to make them known. So we are discussing this at the start of our work, relying on the fact that no one has examined the documents at our examination. These are two documents that photograph the direct consequences of the general economic choices made by the Government in previous years. I will not go into the details of the series of critical remarks on the two measures that have been raised by the Court of Auditors, which in the report on the 2016 accounts found anomalies and inconsistencies in the accounts of administrations, consisting essentially of the collection of unclear chapters in the "to be collected" and the "to be paid," both in the account of competence and in the residual account. Various anomalies were then found throughout the accounts. All this would be enough to send back the general statement and start over. On the other hand, I would like to stress what has happened this year: public debt has increased by another 50 billion, 48 billion to be precise. I note how in 2015 the public debt had increased by 33.8 billion. We have had a significant increase in public debt compared to the previous year. It will be a conjuncture or it will be the situation of the moment, but if we look at a broader temporal space, between the month of February of 2012 and last June, that is the last data announced by the Bank of Italy, the public debt has grown by 353 billion. Over the past five years, public debt has increased by 15%. If we go even further back and see what happened from the Monti Government onward (governments supported by the Democratic Party), the result is even more resounding: 375 billion increase in public debt. Governments born to restore public debt have led the country to the brink of the abyss. Among the figures that jump in evidence there is the one paid by Italy to support the public debt. Between 2007 and this year, in the last ten years, calculated as the sum of the burden on GDP of each year, Italy paid 41.9% of its GDP to pay the public debt. If we compare this with what has happened in other countries, Germany has spent only 20.7%, France 21.9 and the United Kingdom 23.2. There is another underlying problem: always in reference to the Italian public debt, which is partly cured by foreign investors through the purchase of government bonds, according to the Bank of Italy in May there was a loss of confidence by foreign investors. Less and less foreigners have faith in our country and buy our state bonds. This poses a number of problems, because in the next five years, that is, in the next legislature, the Italian public debt to be placed will be more than a thousand billion, because they are in maturity government bonds that in five years are equivalent to half of the Italian public debt. The problem, however, is how this greater public debt is used: if public debt is used to grow the economy, then it improves the debt-to-GDP ratio and therefore can also be justified. Unfortunately, in Italy, this increase in public debt has not led to any improvement in the country's economy. GDP doesn't grow. While the other European countries exceeded the level of GDP they had in 2008, before the crisis, in Italy we are 6.5 percentage points compared to 2008. This is due to the fact that hundreds of businesses are now closing down every year. In the last eight years 158,000 businesses have been lost between handicrafts and retail trade. Employment is not even better, although GDP figures give some encouragement. While it is true that employment levels are equal to those of 2008, we cannot forget that from that year to now the population has increased by about 900,000. So we have to look at another parameter: the work units, the indicator of the total amount of work that gives us a more realistic figure. Compared to nine years ago, we lost a million units of work. It is true that the number of employees has returned to the 2008 levels, but if one works a week, one or two months or a year, it is not a real and effective job. You make up the figures from this point of view and delude the Italians who have increased their jobs. In fact, we have lost 350,000 jobs. This is the result of your economic policies. We are examining the final account and we are losing hours talking about figs of India, while I would have expected more attention on what happened this year, on the choices of economic policy that have yielded results: things that are done when examining a final budget. Instead, we close these things in three hours the day after the resumption of the works; we archive the summary; the important thing is that we do not talk about it, because the results are really disastrous. I will stop here, since in a few days we will talk about the DEF and resume to mention all our criticisms. [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-09-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-873.ana.u11	The joint general debate is closed. I call the rapporteur on draft law No 2874, Senator Fravezzi.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-09-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-873.ana.u12	Madam President, I shall not speak in response.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-09-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-873.ana.u13	I call the rapporteur on draft law No 2875, Senator Guerrieri Paleotti.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-09-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-873.ana.u14	Madam President, I also give up speaking in response.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-09-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-873.ana.u15	I call the representative of the Government.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-09-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-873.ana.u16	Madam President, I speak very quickly because the debate has raised few problematic elements in relation to the shared reports, for which I thank both rapporteurs. I think it would be useful simply to stress one element: the figures in the accounts and, to a certain extent, those of the adjustment testify to the fruitfulness of the approach to the fundamental choices of fiscal policy implemented over the past few years. The metaphor, to which I also appeal, is that often used by the Minister of the economy of our country relative to the so-called narrow path that our country must be able, with its economic and fiscal policy, to cover between two absolutely important needs. On the one hand, because of the enormous volume of public debt accumulated by our country, we have, compared to other European countries, stronger fiscal consolidation needs, even when, as is happening, the guidelines of economic and fiscal policy in the Community tend to become more favourable than the pursuit of growth objectives and to deviate from the univocity of the reference to consolidation needs, which characterized the previous phase of the fiscal policy guidelines of the European Union. Therefore, even when this change takes place, in the Italian case, the need for consolidation, fiscally speaking, is absolutely still strong. This is because the overall volume of public debt we have accumulated is much larger than that of the other major partners in monetary union. This drives us to maintain relatively large primary surpluses compared to those of other countries and also pushes us to direct ourselves in support of growth and in addressing the problems of the excessive inequality that characterize our country, in a key in which we must always take into account the need not to overwhelm the results we have achieved on the side of financial stability. It is certain, however, that over the course of these years it has been shown that the Government has been able to take into account - this is what the figures say to the present day - also the need to combine the choices oriented to the objective of fiscal consolidation with the choices especially on the side of structural reforms oriented to the acceleration of the pace of growth, also using, even within the limited spaces of which I have said before, the resources of the public budget for the support of aggregate demand, for one verse, and for the acceleration of the investments of tangible and intangible infrastructures, for the other verse, so as to act on the side of the supply. The results, particularly during 2017, seem to confirm - I repeat - the fruitfulness of this approach. Are all the choices made during these years and of which the account gives us a first summary to be considered absolutely consistent with this design and therefore to be judged positively? No, not all of them. When we face the Update Note to the Economy and Finance Document and set the work on the budget law for the next three years, I hope that we will be able to distinguish between what has been successful in those choices leading to positive results and what is objectively less effective and should therefore be corrected in order to a more useful commitment of resources on both sides of the narrow path: fiscal consolidation and support for growth. In this context, I believe that it has highlighted the efforts made to tackle the problem of private investment and, much less successfully, public investment to support the competitive tone of our system. The problem of Italy, evident from the early 1990s, is an unsatisfactory trend in productivity: both that of labour and that of total factors, i.e. labour and capital. To testify that this was the problem, we during the great recession have had a very serious fall in consumption, but against which we have achieved some recovery over the last few years. In terms of consumption size, we are now close to the level of consumption in the pre-great recession phase. Where, on the other hand, are we still very far away, which is a huge problem because we have a question of productivity to solve and, if we do not make private and public investments, productivity does not rise? In the field of investment. Here in Italy we currently have the strongest incentives for private investment, for the purpose of increasing productivity, that are in place among all European countries: super depreciation, hyper depreciation, automatic tax credit for investments in research, automatic tax credit South. Overall, real economy data seem to testify that this set of resources works. In my opinion, it would be useful if all political forces, apart from the majority and the opposition, wanted to see the correctness of this judgment, if it is correct; and it seems to me that the numbers show that it is. This is in order to ensure, in a pre-election year, everyone's commitments not to interrupt this path, although in a context in which it is clear that the size of the intervention known as hyper depreciation, for example, is not sustainable in the long term. It is clear that these are extraordinary measures aimed at recovering that gigantic gap which had opened up in the volume of private investment during the great recession. The fall was over 30 percent and, therefore, it is only recovered with extraordinary measures. The extraordinary measures are under way and are working but we will have to replace them with ordinary measures. I am pleased that Senator Mandelli mentioned earlier the proper functioning of an innovation introduced this year, i.e. the so-called individual savings plans. This is because when - and I have the deadline - we will have to withdraw from the market the "drug" of super depreciation and hypermortization due to the lack of public resources to support it, then we will have to see if a share of private savings will have been able to direct it towards investment in the debt of companies. Because this is a structural problem of the country: the debt of the companies is too concentrated in the banks and if the banks know a difficulty, as they have known, the financing of the business suddenly enters a situation near the collapse. The rule on individual savings plans (PIR) is working. The shift towards investment in the real economy of Italian private savings is significant. So, in that regard too, we must seek consolidation rules and commit ourselves to strengthening this further perspective beyond the electoral round that will take place next spring. In this context, of course, the rapporteurs were right to stress this critical element. So, for private investment there is an important recovery going on. On the public investment side, on the other hand, even in the years when the volume of resources allocated to the budget was higher than in the previous year, depending on the acceleration and recovery of public investment, the public administration has struggled to make the investments entered in the budget concretely (in the Budget Committee we call it an investment indicator). Attention: here is a structural problem of the Italian public administration. We can write in the budget the figures we want, but if we do not attack the node of the concrete realization of the investments in terms of procedures, of the relationship between the administrations, of the relationship between the system of regulation guarded by the judicial system and the actual activity, we will not achieve the objective of significantly raising, through the public investments, the competitive tone of the country. It may be thought that this problem will solve itself by putting more resources into it. Of course, while maintaining the same coefficient of realization, if the resources are more, it will mean that we will make a little more investment but will remain the dramatic problem of an Italian public administration that, even when it chooses to engage in the forecast in a more meaningful volume of investments, cannot then keep the promise implicit in this choice. There is much work to be done here in terms of real structural reforms of the spending capacity of the public administration. [[Applause from the PD Group and Senator Fravezzi.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-09-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-873.ana.u17	Colleagues, a number of amendments have been tabled to the draft settlement law; therefore, the Budget Commission needs to meet for their evaluation. I therefore suspend the sitting until 12 noon. (The sitting was suspended at 10:53 a.m. and resumed at 12:05 p.m.) I inform you that, since the final vote on the two measures will take place by electronic ballot, pursuant to Rule 120 (3) of the Rules of Procedure, once the examination of the articles of the accounts has been completed, we will proceed directly to the discussion of the articles of the settlement. The joint explanations of vote will then be followed and the two votes will be taken using the electronic system. We shall proceed to the vote on Rule 1. SANTANGELO (M5S). Mr President, as usual, I would ask that votes on all articles be taken by simultaneous ballot by electronic means. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Article 1. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the vote on Rule 2. I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request for simultaneous voting by electronic procedure is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Rule 2. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the vote on Rule 3. I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request for simultaneous voting by electronic procedure is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Rule 3. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the vote on Rule 4. I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request for simultaneous voting by electronic procedure is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Rule 4. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the vote on Rule 5 with the annexes. I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request for simultaneous voting by electronic procedure is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of Article 5, with its annexes. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the vote on Rule 6. I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request for simultaneous voting by electronic procedure is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Rule 6. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the vote on Rule 7. I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request for simultaneous voting by electronic procedure is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Rule 7. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the vote on Rule 8. I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request for simultaneous voting by electronic procedure is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Rule 8. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the vote on Rule 9. I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request for simultaneous voting by electronic procedure is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I would like to refer to the vote by a simultaneous vote on Rule 9. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). I remember that the final vote of bill 2874 will take place after the vote of the articles of the settlement. We now come to the examination of draft law No 2875, in the text proposed by the Commission. I would like to say that the Presidency - and it is being distributed - has received the opinion of the 5th Permanent Commission on the amendments relating to the draft law, which will be published in an annex to the Minutes of today's sitting. We shall now proceed to the examination of the agendas which are set out and on which I invite the rapporteur and the representative of the Government to make their views known.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-09-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-873.ana.u18	Mr President, I welcome the G100, G101, G102 and G103 agendas.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-09-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-873.ana.u19	Mr President, the Government gives its assent to the rapporteur's opinion. However, I had discussed with the presenter of the agenda G102, Senator Bellot, the need to remove the word "i" in the disposition part, in such a way that the text would be "for internal territories." Otherwise it seems that the commitment is valid for all the internal territories, while obviously the commitment to establish free zones can be assumed by the Government if it concerns portions of territory of these Provinces.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-09-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-873.ana.u20	Senator Bellot, do you accept the change proposed by the government? BELLOT (Misto-Fare!). Mr President, I accept the amendment and insist on voting on the agenda. PRESIDENT. - The debate is As the other draftsmen of the agenda also make the same request, we shall proceed to the vote on the G100 agenda. SANTANGELO (M5S). We call for simultaneous ballots to be carried out by electronic means. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of the G100 agenda, presented by Senator Mandelli and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of the G101 agenda, presented by Senator Mandelli and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of the agenda G102 (correct text), presented by Senator Bellot and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of the G103 agenda, tabled by Senator Comaroli. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). Let us turn to the examination of the articles. We shall proceed to the examination of Article 1, on which amendments have been tabled which are intended to be presented and on which I invite the rapporteur and the representative of the Government to give their views.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-09-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-873.ana.u21	Mr President, the opinion is against all the amendments tabled in Article 1.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-09-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-873.ana.u22	Mr President, the Government's opinion is in line with that expressed by the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-09-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-873.ana.u23	I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1.Tab.2.3, tabled by Senator Mandelli and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1.Tab.4.100, tabled by Senator Comaroli and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1.Tab.4.101, tabled by Senator Comaroli and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1.Tab.4.102, tabled by Senator Comaroli and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Amendment No 1.Tab.4.4, tabled by Senator Mandelli and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1.Tab.4.5, tabled by Senator Mandelli and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1.Tab.4.6, tabled by Senator Mandelli and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1.Tab.4.7 (correct text), tabled by Senator Mandelli and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Mr Capelletti (M5S). Mr President, I would like to ask Mrs Bencini not to vote for others! Mr Bencini (Misto-Idv). What are you talking about? My colleague Maurizio Romani is here before me! ROMANI Maurizio (Misto-Idv). I'm here! PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Colleagues, we have just resumed work after the summer break; it seems to me that at least the effort can be made to use your finger to vote. I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1.Tab.8.100, tabled by Senator Comaroli and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1.Tab.8.101, tabled by Senator Comaroli and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1.Tab.8.102, tabled by Senator Comaroli and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1.Tab.8.103, tabled by Senator Comaroli and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1.Tab.8.104, tabled by Senator Comaroli and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1.Tab.8.105, tabled by Senator Comaroli and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of Article 1, with the annexed tables. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the vote on Rule 2. Senator Santangelo, do you confirm my request for simultaneous voting by electronic procedure for the other articles? SANTANGELO (M5S). Yes, Mr. President. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I therefore ask the Senator Secretary to check whether the request for simultaneous voting by electronic procedure is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Rule 2. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). Let us turn to Article 3. I would urge the Senator Secretary to check whether the request for simultaneous voting by electronic procedure supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Rule 3. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). This concluded the examination of articles of the draft law 2874 and 2875. It is now necessary to proceed with the final explanations of vote, in order to give continuity to them, to postpone the continuation of the discussion of the drafts of law in title to another sitting.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-09-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-873.ana.u24	The motions, questions and questions received by the Presidency will be published in Annex B to today's report. I recall that the Senate will return to public session today, at 4.30 p.m., on the same agenda. The sitting was closed at 12:18 a.m.
