ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-902.ana.u1	The sitting was opened at 16.04 a.m. The Minutes shall be read. Mr Frevezzi, secretary, read the minutes of the afternoon sitting of the previous day.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-902.ana.u2	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-902.ana.u3	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-902.ana.u4	LANGELLA (ALA-SCLP). Mr President, I would like to ask for the vote on the Minutes, subject to a quorum check. Verification of quorum
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-902.ana.u5	I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators, by electronic procedure. (The request is supported). I therefore call on the senators to make their presence known by electronic means. (Follows the quorum check.) The Senate has a quorum. Resumption of the debate on the Minutes I put the Minutes to the vote. It's approved.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-902.ana.u6	The list of senators on leave and absent on assignment received from the Senate, as well as further communications to the Assembly, will be published in Annex B to today's Minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-902.ana.u7	I would warn you that qualified votes can be taken in the course of today's sitting by electronic means. Therefore, from this moment the period of 20 minutes from the notice provided for in Article 119, paragraph 1, of the Regulation (at 16,09 hours) begins.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-902.ana.u8	The next item is: "Communications by the President of the Council of Ministers with a view to the European Council of 19 and 20 October 2017 and subsequent discussion" I call the President of the Council of Ministers, Mr Gentiloni Silveri.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-902.ana.u9	Mr President of the Senate, ladies and gentlemen, the European Council of tomorrow and the day after tomorrow has several items on the agenda, the first of which, at least from the point of view of the general interest, concerns the debate on the future of the Union. It is not a new debate, but it is certainly of great importance at this stage in the life of the European Union, because I believe we are all aware that in the next fifteen or sixteen months, before the de facto conclusion of the European legislature and the launch of the campaign for the renewal of Parliament and the European institutions, there are several opportunities to make progress. The framework in which this debate takes place is all in favour. We have numbers relating to the European economy, particularly the eurozone, which are generally favourable (certainly compared to the crisis of previous years); we have a growth rate of 2.2% in the eurozone, which is quite stable in its forecasts; we have the reality of what has happened in a large European country, the United Kingdom, namely the dynamics that the vote - which we obviously respect, being a democratic expression of the will of the British citizens - has provoked, that is, an internal process in the United Kingdom that does not seem to be characterized, at least not so far, by great successes, great results and exciting political and economic consequences. More simply, in Europe we have the impression that decisions such as those taken by the United Kingdom to leave the European Union are not the bearers of extraordinarily positive consequences, although we deserve, I repeat, all our respect. We have certainly had uneven electoral results, different from each other in different European countries but which overall confirm the strength and solidity of the establishment of the political and government forces that are engaged for Europe. An opportunity, a positive opportunity, can develop in this favourable context. We, for the truth, had already partially grasped it, if you remember, here in Rome last March, in that event anything but celebratory for the sixty years of the Treaties in which we had the clear feeling that the winter of European discontent had somehow, perhaps, dissolved in the beauty of Rome in March, or at least we had the impression of a reaction to Brexit and the difficulties that had been encountered. This will be the first item under discussion at the European Council: how to take advantage of this window of opportunity, how to respond to the demands that have come from Rome onward in the most varied forms and have lately come from some important speeches, President Juncker's speech on the state of the European Union and the speech of the newly elected French President at the Sorbonne, speeches that have tried to give a boost in the direction of European construction, also accepting the idea that it is possible to imagine a different level of integration between the different countries without changing and modifying the Treaties and using the existing rules. However, it would not be honest for me not to acknowledge that this debate, which developed a few weeks ago at an informal European Council in Estonia, is far from certain in its operational and practical conclusion. We must be very careful not to move from a perfect storm situation, which seemed to cross Europe a year and a half ago, characterized by economic crisis, difficulties and Brexit, to a condition of missed opportunities which could characterize Europe in the coming months, if we do not give the debate on the future the dimension it deserves from the political and operational point of view. We will have a proposal from President Tusk, who visited Berlin, Paris and Rome last week to try to represent his ideas on the path of the debate on the future of the Union. Personally, I am convinced that Italy must be in the part where it has always been in the decades, that is, among the countries that believe it is right to push for a higher level of European integration. This has always been the position of our country over the decades and I believe that even now there are all the conditions to consider the position in favour of a higher level of European integration as the one that meets our national interests. On some issues, progress will be made tomorrow and the day after tomorrow: I am thinking of European policies of enhanced cooperation on defence, on which there will be new small steps forward; I am thinking of digital Europe, a subject that has been discussed a lot in Estonia and which will see at the European Council tomorrow and the day after tomorrow the decision to examine the Commission's proposals also concerning a European web tax for large giants and large web platforms. A perspective that does not exclude and, indeed, provides a protective umbrella to any national decisions that in any case advance this direction. Some steps will then be taken and, however, we must be aware that we are still far from defining a turning point programme for the European Union as regards the prospects for a Union of growth and jobs. The Italian proposals of these years have been related to a Union capable of proposing a European unemployment insurance mechanism in cases of asymmetric shocks in European economies. A Union capable of investing in European common goods, perhaps at an early stage, by subtracting investment in European common goods from the calculation of deficit and debt and, at a second stage, investing in European common goods with its own resources. Hence the whole subject of the European Union's own budget, on which a great deal has been done at technical level: I recall the report by Professor Monti and the many contributions that have come in this direction. A Union that thinks of a European Monetary Fund and a Minister for the European economy and of course thinks of these figures not as the introduction of a European auditor who goes to take the measures of deviations in this or that country discolo (maybe better if Mediterranean), but as a European Monetary Fund and a Minister for the European economy who are in a political relationship with Parliament and have a role to promote Europe's work and investment. This is the way we have to go. We cannot accept the idea that the debate on the future of the European Union will become a kind of parallel action, which is discussed at the summits, more or less frequently, and in the shadow of which, perhaps in technical terms, decisions and approaches are going in a completely different direction. If this is the European Union's groundwork, this must result in political, economic and government choices at European level. This is the thrust of Italy, and I believe that Italy must come forward with the support of Parliament as united as possible. In this debate we will start from the subjects which, from this point of view, we consider to be fundamental and not from the speeches which purely concern the architecture of the Union: from the Europe of growth, investment, a common budget and, of course, from a Europe capable of developing common migration policies. In addition to the issue of the future of the European Union, that of common migration policies will be the second topic of the European Council tomorrow and the day after tomorrow. I believe that, on this subject, Italy has a strong position: strong of the work done in recent years and of the results that it has produced. I believe, in fact, that, on the one hand, we can be proud, like Italy, of the fact that in recent years we have been a leading country in saving human lives in the Mediterranean and this work and this value of our policy have always been recognized at European level. I - as I believe all of you - was delighted to hear President Juncker's words in his speech on the state of the Union when he said that Italy saved Europe's honour. [[Applause from the PD, AP-CpE-NCD and Aut groups (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT)-PSI-MAIE and the Repetti and Sonego senators]] We are therefore proud to be able to boast of this result, although we are demanding and far from satisfied with many of the choices of other European countries. On the other hand, we are a country that has managed, in particular in recent months, to develop its political initiative, to inflict a very significant blow to the absolute dominance of human traffickers in the migratory flows of the Central Mediterranean. This is the result that we can claim in Europe: on the one hand we are the country committed to humanitarian level, which saves lives and sets a good example in the Mediterranean and, on the other hand, we are the country that shows that it is possible to defeat the illegal trafficking of human beings and reduce migratory flows. Ladies and gentlemen, senators and senators, there is no other way to deal with migration in the next ten, twenty or thirty years. Those who delude themselves that there may be a way to suddenly remove migratory flows from the pages of history and geography are mistaken and delude our fellow citizens. One thing is certain: moving towards a managed situation where irregular migration flows are reduced in number, controlled from a security point of view and gradually transformed into regular flows. This is the challenge we face and we present ourselves in Europe, perhaps never as strong as we are now, in saying that Italy has shown the way and we need the other countries of the European Union on this road to work and help us. The drop we have had in arrivals is not a number to show for reasons of electoral consensus. It is very important that the number of irregular arrivals managed by traffickers has been reduced, which, as you know, has been reduced very significantly during the year, particularly in the last three or four months, but it is very important because this decrease allows orderly management of flows and allows gradually to shift the weight of this phenomenon towards the countries of transit and towards the countries of origin. But the shift is possible if it is the result of an investment and a commitment of all European countries. There is no successful migration policy in one country. There is no way of resolving this issue only by Italy, although Italy has made progress, progress and achieved success. [[Applause from the PD,AP-CpE-NCD and Aut groups (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT)-PSI-MAIE and Senator Repetti]] When I refer to Europe, I do not mean so much the European Commission, which has always been there in this effort, but to tell the truth - the Minister of the Interior knows well - to support our efforts, in addition to the European Commission, there are only one or two European countries. There is reluctance to put resources to finance the work being done in Libya or Niger for voluntary returns and to make refugee camps in Libya human and respectful of human rights. It's not enough work. These spaces are finally opening up. We could even arrive, in the coming weeks, at the result of the opening of a first UNHCR camp, which is the official United Nations Refugee Organization in Libya. [[Applause from the PD,AP-CpE-NCD and Aut groups (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT)-PSI-MAIE and Senator Repetti]] It sounds like a small result, but it would be amazing. The IOM, the International Organization for Migrants, which deals with non-refugee migrants, this year will perhaps reach over 10,000 voluntary returns from Libya to other African countries. Here you can see a strategic solution of the phenomenon, not to erase it, but to make it manageable, take advantage of its positive aspects and reduce its negative social impact. But if Europe does not mobilize and if the individual European countries, apart from the Commission's commitment and a contribution that has come from countries like Germany, do not move in this direction, we risk being suspended in this work and making progress but leaving them fragile and not reaching the conclusion that it would be necessary. Therefore, at the summit tomorrow and the day after tomorrow, we will ask for a greater economic commitment from all the member countries and President Tusk assured me that he will be the first to make this appeal at the opening of the proceedings. We will call for a commitment from the different countries to support the results of Italian policy: not generic speeches, but concrete results. It is not possible to rely only on the countries of first arrival, whether Italy, Greece or - because it could become - Spain (although so far there are no significant numbers in that direction), the weight of the great flows coming from Africa or the Middle East to the Mediterranean. And we cannot accept that, while we are very close in our cooperation on these policies, we are calling for more and more rigid closures with regard to internal borders within the European Union. Ladies and gentlemen, I have heard someone in Italy rejoice at the success of this or that political formation in some European country that makes the sealing of its borders against Italy a great flag. There is little to rejoice about, ladies and gentlemen! [[Applause from the PD, AP-CpE-NCD Groups]] and Aut (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT)-PSI-MAIE). These are positions against the interests of Italy and against those of Europe, they are not positions to be particularly proud of or encouraged. We must encourage engagement in Africa, in Libya, in solidarity with the countries of first arrival, not encourage those who want to seal European borders making the situation of the countries at the forefront even more difficult. The third and final issue, in addition to other minors, which we will address at this summit, is the issue of Brexit. You know that in the debate in Europe the negotiations with London were set out by identifying two different phases of this comparison. A first step is to address the economic issue, namely the money that the British Government must return to the European Union when it leaves the Union. There is also the question of a European country bordering directly on the United Kingdom, namely Ireland, which is what happens in those very delicate borders within Ireland when both parts of Ireland are no longer part of the European Union. Thirdly, there is the question that we Italians are perhaps, as a national government - although of course we are interested in the whole - most directly concerned: what happens to European citizens living and residing in the United Kingdom. We have hundreds of thousands of Italians living and residing in the United Kingdom and must have the message from Rome, Parliament and the Government that their rights will be defended on our part and that we will not accept, on the altar of Brexit, that they will be compressed. [[Applause from the PD, AP-CpE-NCD Groups]] and Aut (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT)-PSI-MAIE). The British Government - even yesterday I received a very courteous call from Prime Minister May - would prefer that the debate on the future structure of relations between the United Kingdom and the European Union should begin earlier than expected and therefore that the sequence between discussion on the three dossiers and discussion on future relations should be somewhat cross-referenced; in other words, help us by beginning to discuss the future relations between the United Kingdom and the European Union immediately, without asking us to clarify first about money, the borders with Ireland, the status of citizens. I think that we must have a friendly attitude towards the United Kingdom, as we have always had in our history, for reasons which you are well aware of, and that we can also accept the idea that at technical levels we are beginning to discuss future arrangements. But if at the next European Council in December we want to start discussing future arrangements, then we must have made substantial progress before that in the three dossiers I mentioned earlier, otherwise it will be very difficult to start the debate on the future without even laying the financial and budgetary foundations. Finally, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, in Brexit's speech there is also, as you know, the debate on the fate of the two important European agencies in London: the bank agency and the drug agency. It will not be a decision that will be taken at the European Council, but it may be that the subject is still under discussion and the Italian position is very clear: we are convinced - not because we say so, but because this has been attested by the European Medicines Agency and the European Commission in their assessments, in their assessments - that the Italian candidature of the city of Milan is one of the two or three most competitive candidatures among the nineteen European nominations. [[Applause from the PD, AP-CpE-NCD Groups]] and Aut (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT)-PSI-MAIE). It is not our political conviction. It is the reality of the facts and the result of analyses carried out at European level. With all due respect (which is not formal, because I am fully aware of this problem and this need) that is due to the principle of geographical balance vis-à-vis countries which, having entered the European Union later, do not yet have the privilege and the possibility of hosting European agencies, with all due respect for this principle, I believe that it cannot go at the expense of the quality and functionality of such an important agency for health, for the economy, for the quality of life of people. [[Applause from the PD, AP-CpE-NCD and]] and Aut (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT)-PSI-MAIE). It would be better to follow and practice the principle of rebalancing if new European agencies were to be set up and not in the case of an agency which, from the first day after its transfer, needs to operate fully. Again, one of the issues of the debate on the future of Europe comes to light here. Italy has never had a contemptuous attitude towards the countries of new entry. On the contrary: their entry sanctioned a great season of freedom in Europe. The President of the European Commission, at the time of this entry, was also an Italian. Therefore, there would be no doubt that we were opposed to recognizing the importance and role of these newly-entry countries. We must, however, have in mind what the objectives of the European project are; their quality, their ambition. Being combined with twenty-seven remains a fundamental requirement. But this unity cannot be a burden on the ambition and future of the European project. That is true of the agencies and applies to the common European horizon that binds us. In this respect, I believe that the Government can count on a broad consensus in Parliament, which makes its position at the Brussels table stronger. [[Applause from the PD Group, AP-CpE-NCD,]] and Aut (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT)-PSI-MAIE).
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-902.ana.u10	I note that the motions for resolutions will have to be tabled before the end of the debate. Senator Monti is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-902.ana.u11	Mr President-in-Office of the Council, I fully agree with your assessments and the political guidelines you have expressed regarding both the problems of the European agenda and the contribution that Italy can and must make at this stage in the interests of Europe but also in the interests of itself. For the reasons you have indicated for the next 15 or 16 months, it can be decisive. I would add another reason, to which you have alluded, but next May the European Commission will present the proposal for a multiannual financial framework for the seven years that will begin in 2021. So, you get to 2027. There is still little talk of it, but as you know, Mr President, the engines are heating up. What are the tasks of the Union? What does he have to do more or better than today? What less must he do than today? How much, for example, will it have to devote to a common defence policy? What about agricultural policy? How will it be financed? Are you going to have to have your own resources or not? I repeat that there will be a Commission proposal in May 2018 and the Commission's objective is to reach a decision with Council and Parliament before the European elections in May 2019. This will be a decision that will make the Union and the Member States, and so Italy, up to ten years from now. Mr President-in-Office of the Council, as you said, at the tables of these decisions, as well as those on growth and employment, the country must, if possible, be united and yet strong in its own determinations. Over the last few years, with a continuity of commitment that you have emphasized, our country has recovered several of its weaknesses and vulnerabilities and strengthened several of its strengths. However, there is still an overall perception of the lack of solidity of our system, of non-full reliability in relation to the commitments made. This applies to the political observers and, still, to the markets. Ladies and gentlemen, do you think it is normal that today the spread towards Germany is 163 points for Italy and 120 points for Spain? This is a differential that we all pay: State, enterprises and households using loans. It is true that Italy's public debt is much higher than that of Spain, but Spain is a country that has risked - and perhaps still risks - the breakup of the nation. So, what can we do - Government, Parliament, parties and civil society - to convince the European family, in our interest and not so much in theirs, that Italy is a solid, convinced, certainly assertive, non-passive and remissive component of a Europe that we all want to strengthen? What can we do? I would like to express my wish in this House. I have the impression that, in the arena of internal policy, there are, in reality, differences between us on the great issue of Europe and its different articulations, a little less than some time ago and those that often appear to be multiplied and exaggerated abroad. You know, for my personal history, that I have no aversions, no belongings, and that I look with respect to the different oppositions, as well as to the different members of the majority. Well, I wondered what the opposition and the majority could do at the moment to make Italy's presence more recognized, in addition to the great action that the Government is taking with the President of the Council, in Europe. If I may allow myself for a moment to address the senators of the 5 Star Movement and the North League, I must say that - recently - I have found in their Groups and other members of the opposition that in the past had marked themselves for a distinct ultra-dialectical position towards Europe, more thoughtful and pragmatic expressions. Is there any way to show abroad that it is no longer true that, in the event of certain electoral outcomes, Italy would emerge from the euro and the European Union from the next day? I try to explain it when I'm being questioned and I hope it's true, but maybe something more can be done not to make the whole of our country pay for a perception that maybe is no longer very current and correct abroad. [[Applause from the Mixed Group and Senator Puppato]] I would now like to address myself symmetrically to the senators of the Democratic Party, a party which has played an important role throughout Italy to the heart of the European Union and its currency. Just remember what President Prodi and President Napolitano and many others have done. I remember how responsibly the Democratic Party carried the political burden, as well as Forza Italia, at a very difficult time for the country that I have lived closely. Can we not do without creating small tears that - then - are multiplied in the internal chronicles and, above all, in the returns that are made abroad? Why throw rocks into the pond that have not followed, but are disturbing? Don't you want the fiscal compact? Do you want to go back to the Maastricht Treaty? You say exactly what you mean, you discuss it with potential allies, but don't leave the world and markets in the sense that Italy has not yet truly assimilated the culture of some budgetary discipline, which it has signed. Yesterday I was not so surprised that the Leader of the Democratic Party in the Chamber of Deputies promoted a motion on the important and sensitive issue of the Bank of Italy. I was, on the other hand, very surprised that 213 Members felt they had approved that motion. Do we realize, without going into the subject matter of people, that these are issues which, among other things, also affect Europe inextricably, because our Bank of Italy is part of the European system of central banks? I would also like to give the testimony - whatever one thinks about the very complicated banking theme - that the Governor of the Bank of Italy, between the end of 2011 and 2012 (he was the current Governor of the Bank of Italy, with his men), had a fundamental role, in agreement with the Government and without at all affecting the autonomy of the Bank of Italy in the European system, to bring on the European tables the proposal of the anti- spread shield, without which there would have been no subsequent evolution, very open-minded, of the European Central Bank, from which Italy took the blessing of a manna that perhaps mistakenly we think will never end. The role of the Bank of Italy in this has been very important. I conclude by saying that there is and will soon be an opportunity to have very lively debates on the European issue: I am referring to the European elections in May 2019, which President Gentiloni Silveri recalled. Can we not, from now on, try to respond to your wish to present us more united and without controversy, which, however, are out of time and which could not have any concrete effect, in order to leave, as Italy, a greater trace in Europe? This has been done in the case of the EMA, and I would like to congratulate the President and his staff. I was last week in Sofia, at a meeting with the Bulgarian Prime Minister, who - as is well known - will take on the role of rotating President of the European Council on 1 January. I did not miss the opportunity to make a reference to EMA, of course, and I saw that the preparation was very thorough at that point on the periphery of Europe as well. It is not up to me to say whether or not there have been discussions and agreements between the two Presidents of the Council. With that same unity, also interpreting the President's wish, I believe that it is in the interest of all of us to make these fifteen or sixteen months, even if the Italian elections are involved, apnoea with respect to the European visceral debates. [[Applause from the PD and Mixed Groups]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-902.ana.u12	Senator Casini is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-902.ana.u13	Mr President, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, I will try to be brief, because it is an important habit for you to report to us before the European Council, and it is important that we respond to the same custom by expressing the views of our groups without delay. First of all, I confess a certain concern. President Monti projected it, in particular, for our domestic affairs, on things that are certainly destined to become more acute during the next election campaign, so I understand this aspect. I add my concern about a European scenario that I fear, given the great issues that Europe must solve today, will hardly be able to match with a political balance that will enable it to make progress. I hope I'm wrong of course. I fear that the new German Government will end up in greater difficulty than the great choices that Europe expects from Germany and I fear that the many local political elections, as has been seen in Austria, will bring out what can hardly be received by Italian applause. Gentiloni Silveri was amazed; I too marvel at so many unbridled applauses, perhaps about the nominalism of belonging to a European People's Party, which unfortunately - I say that I have always been a European People's Party and I will be one for the future - risks becoming a party with everything and the opposite of everything. I find it hard to rejoice at the content that emerged as a winner in the Austrian political elections, because I think that these contents inevitably end up creating problems for my country, Italy, which is committed more than any other country to facing a migration situation that is on the agenda of the general day. [[Applause from the PD, AP-CpE-NCD and Aut groups (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT) - PSI-MAIE]] Monti wanted some points of union: we want to try to put one. The Government Gentiloni Silveri has achieved very important results on migration and has done so through a concert between different ministries: the Minister of Foreign Affairs has worked together with the President of the Council to make agreements with sub-Saharan Africa; the Minister of Defence has made agreements to try to strengthen the Libyan border guard device; the Minister of the Interior has made agreements with the Libyan municipalities. The result of all this is a dizzying decline in migration, as no one had ever managed to achieve in Republican history. [[Applause from the PD, AP-CpE-NCD and Aut (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT) and PSI-MAIE groups.]] Between so much smoke of the electoral campaigns, I hope that this figure - which is statistical, not opinion - can still be found as representative of an Italy that has not been watching, but in European indifference. Let us be honest: while Europe, thanks to Germany's drive, has managed to achieve a strong economic agreement with Turkey, we have not had the same capacity, but we have had to do it ourselves. Today, the President-in-Office of the Council rightly calls on this Parliament to go to Europe, to the European Council, and to ask its partners for help on Mediterranean policy. This aid is not given to Italy, as far as we can think, but to Europe itself; in fact, either we can solve this problem in conjunction with our European partners, or inevitably they too will have negative repercussions. In my view, therefore, we need to strengthen the Mediterranean policy as a matter of priority. Europe has been looking, even rightly, at the North-East for too long, and today it must establish that there is a priority: the Mediterranean. Moreover, it is a priority not only of problems, but also of opportunities: think of the energy data that concerns the Mediterranean, with the new discoveries not only of ENI in Egypt: in the Mediterranean is foreshadowing an important gas hub, with unprecedented collaborations between countries such as Cyprus, Israel, Egypt, countries of sign, traditions, different stories. There is so much to be done and Europe must follow the focus on the Mediterranean. Second point: the web tax. I totally agree. We all see new web technologies as great opportunities for our countries; we all believe that globalisation, even from this point of view, has brought us opportunities that were not there in the past. But we must prevent governments from succumbing to web giants, and we must give them the opportunity to do simply at European level what is right for them to do, namely tax these great giants, which are now far more powerful than many states in the world and dictate the rules. Not in Europe. I believe that there is someone here who, when he was a European Commissioner, tried to establish rules with the American giants: good. Today Europe has to give some rules. Finally, I would like to address the issue of defence. Personally, I am sure that the economic issue is fundamental, but if Europe does not recover, in terms of foreign and defence policy, a stronger Community dimension, every effort to integrate will fail. I say this in relation, for example, to what the main European actors have done about Libya: everyone has gone on their own and we forget that. While Foreign Minister Gentiloni Silveri worked with Kerry to stabilize the government that the United Nations had installed, there were other key actors in European politics working for the Libya tripartition. Today, on the subject of defence policy and also of NATO's identity update, which are two aspects that are held together (worry to think that the common European defence policy is antagonistic to NATO, because it is complementary to that platform) steps must be taken. In conclusion, I would like to make it clear that our country is a friend of the United Kingdom and I like this repeated attestation of friendship, on which there can be no misunderstanding. The United Kingdom is a wealth for Europe, it will remain European outside the European Union, and it is good that we also claim equal treatment for our fellow countrymen in that country. I think that, with good will, we can be understood with the friends of Great Britain, because even today, driven by the wind of populism, which first gives rise to messianic expectations and then always disappoints them (to this we should also think for the future in Italy), they find themselves no longer knowing what direction to take. [[Applause from the PD Group and Senator Buemi.]] We therefore reiterate this attitude of friendship and try to be active partners in a negotiation that must take off, because it is necessary to clarify the dimension of the relationship and partnership between the European Union and the United Kingdom. [[Applause from the AP-CpE-NCD and PD Groups and Senator Gambaro]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-902.ana.u14	He is enlisted to speak Senator Romani Paolo. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-902.ana.u15	Mr President-in-Office of the Council, it seems to me that you in the House this morning and now in the Senate have pointed out that the coming months, but certainly the coming years will be the decisive ones for Europe, a Europe that we do not know how it will survive, that perhaps will depart from the values that the founding fathers of Europe have repeated on many occasions, those values that have allowed Europe to have seventy years of peace within its borders and therefore this is a decisive passage and moment. The fear, or at least the fear that we have is that Italy and its Government are not able to dictate the agenda that interests us; that Italy is or could be in a position to undergo the agenda of France and Germany and that it will not be able to be, perhaps, in the coming months, that great G7 country that would like to be. This morning and also just now, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, I heard you talk about Brexit and I would like to give you an example. You said, in an important passage of your speech, that during the talks you had with the British Prime Minister Theresa May, she tried to shift the discussion to the future without going through the caudine forks of the final confrontation on money (to use its expression). Theresa May speaks of 20 billion, the President of the European Parliament Antonio Tajani speaks of 50-60 billion, the "Finncial Times" speaks of 100 billion. I would like to know, President, the attitude, the thought, the opinion of the Italian Government on this issue which is not an indifferent one, because we would not like the exit of Britain from the European family to become, even on the economic issue, a negotiation whereby the country that exits has more advantages than the countries that remain. We are here to comply with the rules imposed by Europe and we are even going down - because this figure has not been mentioned - to the exit of Britain. It is obvious that at this moment you are engaged in the protection of Italian citizens and Italian companies present on British territory and those who want to be present in the future. We are far from the major themes of development, employment and austerity, combined with flexibility. We are so far away that, even an official, such as Mrs Danièle Nouy, President of the ECB Supervisory Board, lays down new rules for Italian banks. And although the Vice President of the European Commission Valdis Dombrovskis is not always tender with us - he will remember that he is a real hawk - he felt obliged to remember that the ECB is not a monad acting in a pneumatic vacuum and invited Mrs Nouy to take into account the fact that the legislator in Europe is another. I hope, therefore, that you will also talk about this in the coming days in Europe. It is, however, on Libya that I would like to focus most of my speech. There was disinterest in the European Union. Europe turned to the other side, except when it came to Turkey: three billion immediately arrived at Turkey; then there was no question of what Turkey was doing with it, what its policy was in the areas of crisis. Turkey was given 3 billion to block 3 million refugees who could have arrived in Europe. Well, not only has it happened that Europe and the European countries have turned to the other side, but it has also happened that some countries - you know well what they can report to me - have intervened against Italian interests. Mr President, I would remind you that in the device with which the House and the Senate authorised us to begin the mission in Libya, we wrote and your Government agreed that the Commission was committed to acting diplomatically in the appropriate international fora and in the framework of bilateral relations so that no uncoordinated unilateral initiative could undermine the effectiveness of the mission. In very simple terms, we wanted to say: we have to deal with a problem that concerns us directly; we know that Europe has turned to the other side and we ask Europe not to intervene. But it did happen. In Sabrata - perhaps you will know - the Government legitimately, besides speaking with the Government Sarraj or with Haftar, who was received, also speaks with the militias on the spot. The militias, which have also helped us, in addition to other initiatives, to interrupt or mitigate the flow of economic migration from the Libyan coasts, today have been beaten on the field by other militias that, by chance, are supported by Services of other European countries. This means that these issues must be put in that place; it is not possible to imagine that a colossal effort is being made, in terms of billions for Italian taxpayers and in terms of overall agreement for the Italian system with regard to this phenomenon and then the Allied countries will be allowed on the ground to counter and contradict what we are trying to do. I'm telling you this because you didn't mention it strangely. The Islamic State in Syria has been defeated: Raqqa, the capital of the Islamic State in Syria, was occupied by the Kurdish-Arab SDF alliance and as everyone knows - the Italian Government, the European countries, our Services and those of the European countries know - there are many foreign fighters in that component of the Islamic State. So, we must be careful that those same foreign fighters, who are fleeing from the areas that the Syrian Government, the Kurds, the Russians and the Iranians are trying to occupy, even for the benefit of our community and community, do not arrive on the Italian coast. [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII]] We would not want any of those foreign fighters to be present on board those boats that are starting again from Sabrata because of the problem I said before, but perhaps also from Tunisia and Algeria. President, I was sorry that today in the Senate you did not want to remember - perhaps it was not appropriate to do so in the House - the contribution that our party has made to the definition and resolution of the problem of economic migration. You will remember that the Defence Commission, on our own initiative and stimulus, carried out a survey of what NGOs were doing; that it has been demonstrated and certified that those NGOs 12 miles from the Libyan coasts were a factor of attraction (technically known as pull factor) and that they would allow to increase the number of departures, but also of deaths. You did not even remember what I was trying to mention to you earlier, that is that we have largely contributed to your Government's being able to have authorization from the coasts, to block the coasts. I hope there is no time to deal with anything else, but I still hear of ius solo. I do not know how many of us or of you usually look at the statistics and wonder who are those who have arrived on the Italian coasts. I have the statistics provided by the Ministry of the Interior which shows that in 2016, out of 123,000 asylum applications, 91,000 were examined; only 4,800 (5 per cent) were granted refugee status, 12,000 (2 per cent) were granted subsidiary protection (two EU-approved statuses), and 19,000 (2 per cent) were accepted as humanitarian protection. The latter is a typically Italian institute: they are neither refugees fleeing from wars, nor refugees fleeing from countries where freedom is at stake; they are individual cases of people against whom a process of humanitarian protection is activated. However, 60% of asylum seekers received a negative response and the same happened in 2017. All this has as an effect on our territory the fact that there are 500,000 clandestine people within the Italian borders, in the midst of our communities. I therefore wonder why, in this confused situation in which there is no certainty, we should now address a debate on ius solo in favour of 800,000 people who are in a family environment in which we do not know the degree of love, affection and recognition of the rules of our community. Mr President-in-Office of the Council, I would like to address you, because you often mention this subject, to verify the desire of those people, who have that family environment to recognize themselves in our community, in our history, in our traditions, in our rules, in the desire to belong to our community. [[Applause from GroupFI-PdL XVII),]] because if this does not happen, as I fear, the fact of giving citizenship to people, children, children, but also older people who do not feel and do not want to be and feel Italian will be largely prevalent. [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-902.ana.u16	On behalf of the Assembly, I greet the teachers and students of the Istituto Superiore (Rinaldo D'Aquino) of Montella, in the province of Avellino, who are attending our work. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-902.ana.u17	He's enlisted to speak Senator Tronti. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-902.ana.u18	Mr President of the Senate, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, ladies and gentlemen, European malaise is the definition of the prestigious pen of Claudio Magris, an author who told us about the literary civilization of Mitteleuropa. If Paris, as has been said, was the capital of the nineteenth century, Vienna was the cultural capital of the twentieth century. There Europe still mirrors itself and still reveals its face, and for this reason, after Germany, Austria gives us another disturbing signal. That is what I read, Mr Gentiloni Silveri, what you call the "time of transition" or the "confrontational phase" of the European Union. Just at a time when migratory flows no longer appear to be an exceptional state drama, right now the popular reaction, especially electoral, is becoming more virulent. We have seen it in the United Kingdom, then in France, now in the heart of Europe. Perhaps those who claim that less social distress and more of a sort of existential discomfort is the real trigger. Or perhaps it is better to say that they fall there, on the fear of the different and the stranger, all the daily material difficulties of the people. Obviously the problem - immigration seen as a danger - has been rooted in the consciousness, one could say in the subconscious, of a substantial part of public opinion. This false appearance must be exposed: by fighting openly those political forces who think on this subject to make their consent worthwhile. However - and this interests me more than to say - we must know, and understand, that a feeling of insecurity, uncertainty, and even fear, exists as a fact of reality, especially in the population groups and in the areas of territory (I think of the outskirts of the large metropolitan cities, but also of the small villages that are in direct contact with the unpublished and intrusive figure at times of the migrant). That consensus that arises from the reaction against that figure must be dried up, with targeted policies, with intelligent policies: first - as you have pointed out very much - at European level. However, a small but influential group of countries that are most important on the European agenda must take the lead in a mass clarification operation on this issue. And this guide group can only express itself in an Italian-Franco-German axis: with concrete practical measures, but also and I would say above all, because it is what is missing today, with a real cultural offensive. These three central countries, Italy, France, Germany, all three at the beginning of new parliaments (as is at the beginning, in the perspective, the new European Parliament) should each inaugurate a sort of legislature for Europe. Italy, as you said, on your behalf, must not only do its part but it has already done it thanks to the initiatives of the Head of Government in Europe and thanks to the policies, precisely, of some ministers, beginning with the Minister of the Interior Minniti, whose interventions I have very much shared, but also the Minister of Defence, as President Casini said, who did a good job. I have to say that when you come from good political schools you can make a good policy. This is a teaching that we should understand and make everyone understand. [[Applause from the PD Group]] It therefore opens, in a European key, on what is called an epochal migratory flow, but calculating well the quantity and quality of the reception, which also means ensuring a financial, civil, and human sustainability, together with reasons and times, as fast as possible, of rejection. We are comforted by the recent positions of the Catholic Church, which with the Pope and his bishops, generally knows more about politics than many of our politicians. But there is a problem, ladies and gentlemen, perhaps less pressing, but even more important, which cannot be dealt with here, but I would like the time to do so. Our institutions lack a place of reflection and confrontation at the level, at the level, of political culture. And it is time that we began to reason for the next legislature on ways and times to build it. In short, we are faced with this paradox: that a Europe, born and designed for a broad supranational vision, is today confronted with separatist pressures and claims within the same nations, with a multiplication of small patriots, with a micronationalism that replaces the historical one of the great nations. Now, here you have to be careful: the idea of Nation has its roots in long history, precisely modern history. And we are seeing how much more it is able to warm the hearts of the peoples; not by chance, from Serbia to Catalonia they claim its origins in ancient battles and in ancient dates. The idea of Nation is a historical-political idea; how can one think of overcoming it by proposing a purely economic European Union, a merely monetary supranationality, a globalization only of products and not even of producers, i.e. workers? So the small ones are recharged, and unfortunately also the big ones, nationality, as the only passion of belonging remained to something worth it for. I was impressed by the enthusiasm, the warmth, the emotional tears of the Catalan crowds, the pronunciation of the word independence. The secession from one's own nation is answered with a project of crossing the nation itself. That means more Europe. To overthrow this neo-sovereignism, we should return to thinking, and rethinking, of the idea of sovereignty, a great category of modern politics, in its theoretical developments, in its historical changes and in its future combinations. Sovereignty of peoples is also freedom, which goes beyond the individual and pertains to a community, ever wider and increasingly complex. Mr President, then we need a vast, reasoned, passionate, political education operation to the idea of Europe, similar to what happened on the idea of Nation. We must start from the new generations, which are already, I would say instinct, European: not only, as is often said, among those who circulate on the continent through Erasmus, but among those, all the more, who are now working in European countries, with often humble tasks, or with sometimes highly qualified activities. But education and pedagogy are needed for a European feeling. A collection of writings and speeches by Thomas Mann will be released in the coming weeks, entitled "Moniti all'Europa" (Moniti all'Europa), among other things with an intense preface by President Napolitano. Monites that go up and reach us from the tragic twentieth century. It is an edition Oscar Mondadori, therefore with high diffusion: why can't you recommend all the high schools of Italy to adopt this book and the teachers to let it read and discuss in the classroom? He is not a partisan author, he is one of the highest twentieth-century literary voices. Young generations should not be rhetorically evoked as a resource already ready to best replace old generations. Young people must be prepared, guided and oriented. When we talk about European defence and common immigration policy in Europe, we must think that this can only be done through a political Europe. And political Europe is a destiny that awaits us; we must not wait for it, this destiny, we must plan it. And maybe only a big leap could be the solution to overcome these little steps that make us stand still. Mr President, I shall conclude by asking that the remainder of my speech be given in order to be annexed to the Minutes of today's sitting. [[Applause from the PD Group. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-902.ana.u19	The Presidency shall authorise it accordingly.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-902.ana.u20	He's enlisted to speak Senator Zeller. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-902.ana.u21	Mr President, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, the European Council on 19 and 20 October will take place following the general elections in Germany and Austria. As far as future scenarios are concerned, I am a little more optimistic than President Casini about these elections, which have certainly made European balances more complex and difficult. However, the Austrian elections saw winner Sebastian Kurz, who, after the election campaign, will - I am convinced - be a supporter of the European Union and will not move the Österreichischen Volkspartei (ÖVP), the Austrian People's Party, towards the Visegrad countries or, again, to the right, but will work in the best tradition of the European People's Party, to contain the strengthening of the European right. What is in front of the European countries is the need for a new European pact, able to propose a system of governance of the euro, in which responsibility and risk sharing are indispensable points, in an economic vision that is not marked by further restrictive constraints for countries that demonstrate a real ability to stabilize public accounts, such as Italy. Otherwise, the still fragile and unconsolidated economic recovery in many Member States would certainly be put at risk. We are also convinced that the only response to populism is a stronger Europe, giving space to regions and autonomous communities, with a strengthening of the European institutions, to launch a common defence policy and, economically, to establish a European Finance Minister, with the strengthening of the role of the European Central Bank. What is not conceivable for us is that some Eastern European countries behave as if Europe were an à la carte menu: on the one hand they claim funding and accept payments from other European countries, but when the time comes to demonstrate solidarity and respect the judgments of the Court of Justice behave in an absolutely unacceptable way, denying any principle of solidarity. [[Applause from the Aut Group (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT) - PSI-MAIE]] We also agree with the President of the Council's assessment of Brexit. The UK Government's proposals to respect its financial obligations and the principles and objectives of protecting European citizens living there - particularly Italian citizens - are still unsatisfactory. Similarly, it is necessary to continue the comparison with regard to the government of migratory flows, which Italy sees as one of the most exposed countries as well. The decisive role of Italy, in particular thanks to the determination of the Minister of Interior Minniti, has had substantial recognitions: he was really good at this mission. The measures adopted must now be supplemented and supplemented, in particular in order to ensure humanitarian standards in the refugee camps in Libya, with the refinancing of the European Fund, the reform of the asylum system and the implementation of the refugee redeployment system. In order to give an acceptable level of credibility to this debate, it is necessary for the European Council to come out of the usual general commitments, which we have heard so far about the reform of the so-called Dublin Regulation. We also share the commitment of the Gentiloni Government Silver that the comparison on digital businesses and web tax is inspired by the principle that the taxation of profits takes place where they were created. However, I would like to point out to the President-in-Office of the Council and, in this case, to Mr Gozi here, another issue which the President of the Council unfortunately did not address in his report and in his communications, which we greatly appreciated for the rest. We believe that the European institutions should not maintain the current, very far-fetched position on the Catalan issue, hiding behind the stereotype that this is an issue within the Spanish State. Instead, we think that in a community, as Europe is, the internal institutional crises of each Member State affect all members of the community. If in a family, like in Europe, a member cannot solve a problem, it is natural that family members are interested and do not turn to the other side, pretending that they are not seeing, as the European institutions and the other Member States are doing, unfortunately. In the case of Catalonia, it is clear that the current Spanish Government, in particular President Rajoy, is inadequate. It was Rajoy and his People's Party that was responsible for the accentuation of this crisis. I would remind them that it was they who blew up the agreement, which was laboriously reached in 2005, between the Government of President Zapatero and the Catalan authorities. It was the People's Party that presented the infamous appeal to the Constitutional Court, which then led to the cancellation of the changes to the Statute of Catalonia. However, this appeal turned out to be an authentic victory for Pirro: they thought they were smart, but they caused the greatest crisis in the Spanish state in the post-Francist period, pushing for many years, with the denial of any dialogue, even the Spanish moderate forces towards separatism, although the vast majority of Catalans do not want secession, but a stronger autonomy. It was also demonstrated in the 2006 referendum on the Catalan Statute, where 73.9% voted "yes" to the new Statute of autonomy, which was unfortunately rejected by the Constitutional Court. We as linguistic minorities and representatives of the self-government are obviously particularly sensitive to this issue, also because it is easy to imagine what would have happened to us in South Tyrol-Südtirol, if the Constitutional Court had rejected, after a favourable vote by Parliament, the difficult agreement reached in the 1969 Package, which set up until the bomb season, paving the way for a successful model of self-government. Luckily in Italy we didn't have a Mariano Rajoy, but there were far-sighted characters like Aldo Moro, Giulio Andreotti, Alcide Berloffa and Silvius Magnago, to name but a few, and Italy has given an excellent example of how to deal effectively with internal crises: not continually throwing gasoline on the fire, but with the path of dialogue. Only in this way was it possible to overcome a painful past and give concrete response to the legitimate demands of the local populations of greater autonomy. The solution is therefore not the proof of strength, the policy of the baton and the anti-democratic repression of Rajoy and not even secession, but negotiation and negotiation. Italy, strong of this positive experience, should therefore make its voice heard more, taking action to ensure that, even with the mediation of the European institutions, the Spanish Government initiates a constructive political negotiation with the representatives of Catalonia in order to grant wider forms of self-government, as Spain itself has already granted to the Basque Country. Italy, with the Government Gentiloni Silveri, must therefore not hide, but could present itself as a model for the peaceful solution of these regional conflicts. [[Applause from the Aut Group (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT) - PSI-MAIE and Senator Silvestro.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-902.ana.u22	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-902.ana.u23	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-902.ana.u24	DE PETRIS (Misto-SI-SEL). Mr President, I must say that the current President-in-Office of the Council unfortunately inherited the same vices of institutional ill-education as his predecessor, because, as you can see, not all the political forces have intervened and he has thought well to leave the Chamber. If we are to continue in these weary rites and see the President of the Council leaving, among other things in days specifically devoted to the communications of the President of the Council, honestly, since we have here every day the Minister for relations with Parliament, I believe we can debate freely, because at least we give a little more order to our work. I find it very serious, Mr President, that President Gentiloni Silveri has left, evidently after hearing only the speeches he was interested in listening to. [[Applause from Senator Candiani]] I think it's really bad. I didn't expect Gentiloni Silveri to become like Renzi. [[Applause from the Misso-SI-SEL Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-902.ana.u25	Senator Endrizzi is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-902.ana.u26	Mr President, here we are filling the mouths of Europe, of the European Union, of the European Council, but with the liberticidal electoral law, which you are liquidating as a business deal between business partners, you are pushing Italy on an anti-democratic drift that takes us out of civil Europe. You, President Gentiloni Silveri, ghost and absentee, could be the last President of the Council to sit at the European Council. Does that sound like too much provocation to you? Imagine that France, Spain, Germany or the United Kingdom will change their electoral laws six months after the end of the legislature, only to damage a political force. Can you imagine the reactions? It should be remembered that the 2003 Council of Europe electoral code of conduct in Article 65 states that what is to be avoided is not so much the change in the voting procedure, since the latter can always be improved; but its revision repeated or taking place shortly before the ballot (less than one year) is taken. It also provides that: Even in the absence of a desire to manipulate, this will appear in this case as linked to the economic interests of the party. Also in relation to this document, Bulgaria was censored by the European Court of Human Rights for amending the electoral law under these conditions. (At 5:32 p.m.) (Following ENDRIZZI). The Italian Constitutional Court, in judgment n. 348 of 2007, has assumed the norms of the ECHR (and therefore the Code of Good Conduct above) as integrating sources of the parameter of constitutionality referred to in Article 117 of the Constitution. Now, the will to manipulate is manifest in the candid admissions of the condemned Berlusconi, but also in the words and works of the President of the Council. In your programmatic speech, in December 2016, you stated that the government would try to accompany, to facilitate comparison on electoral law, without being its main actor. The government has done worse, in fact: he has appointed himself director of a horror film and also interpreter in the role of the killer; murderer of confrontation and debate by placing in the House three illegitimate trusts (and others are announced here). They are illegitimate because they are not part of the government program, as he himself stated. Without metaphors, a well-known journalist called your behavior "criminal." Now, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, you cannot represent Italy: you will have the role, but not the credibility. [[Applause from the M5S Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-902.ana.u27	He's enlisted to speak Senator Micheloni. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-902.ana.u28	Mr President, I will only touch one point. I am okay with the President-in-Office of the Council leaving, because undersecretary Gozi is well aware of the work we have done with the Committee on Italian Affairs abroad. I speak as President of this Committee, a robe that has always been wrinkled, as Minister Finocchiaro knows, and I would say in these days torn apart by electoral law, but I always wear this robe. The Committee for the Issues of Italians Abroad has carried out a rapid investigation to try to understand the effects that Brexit is likely to have on our fellow citizens living in England. I would like to remind you that some 600,000 Italians are now resident in England, but this issue concerns 4.5 million European citizens, because as long as Brexit does not become effective, there are 3.3 million Europeans in England and 1.2 million British people in Europe. I shall be brief because I have been granted two minutes and I hope that the President's patience will give me an extra minute. The Committee on Italian Affairs abroad voted unanimously on a resolution which I summarize with a single concept. I welcome the fact that the President-in-Office of the Council has said that all the rights of our citizens must be defended. We fully agree with this but, in fact, we ask the Italian Government to bring to Europe a reflection on the basic strategy that Europe has always had in negotiations with third countries. Europe has always had as a line: either in the agreements we take everything or there is nothing in the agreements. I take the example of the twelve agreements between the European Union and Switzerland: all or nothing was a fair line, because it forced Switzerland to accept the agreement on the free movement of persons, when they were interested in financial agreements and goods. So the whole thing or nothing in a negotiation with a third country is fine. Here, however, we cannot accept this; here we must absolutely have the commitment that the status of our four and a half million European citizens should be defined as soon as possible. I use a word that is not mine, a bad word: "hostage" This word was used by Michel Barnier when he came here to the Senate and this word we heard several times in meetings with our communities in England. We cannot accept that we should go to this negotiation with the classic technique at all or nothing. The situation of our citizens must be defined here in accordance with acquired rights. Above all, however, we also need attention to detail. Mr Gozi, I believe you have already read our resolution. It may seem strange that in such a resolution we go into detail: to monitor the process of implementing an agreement. It's not random, though, if we got into the details. Mr Leigh, whom we met during the mission to the British Parliament, told us at some point that we must trust the British because they will make generous proposals to the European citizens. I have reminded this colleague of the British Parliament that here in the Senate we have auditioned the representatives of the English community in Italy. A lady, a member of that delegation, concluded the meeting by making a great recommendation to us: Don't trust me; don't trust me; don't trust me. There is a need for confidence here, but we have told the British Parliament that this position has been reported to us and that we understand it. In fact, we cannot say 'we will respect the rights' and then send eighty-five-page forms to European citizens who have lived in England for twenty to thirty years and who must be the ones to provide proof that they are resident in England. Mr Undersecretary, this is a very important point for us. All the other themes will then have their difficulties or their ease: this is fine. There must be no punitive spirit in this negotiation: there is no doubt about this and I fully agree with the President-in-Office of the Council. However, it is not enough for us to answer that the issue of citizens is a priority: it must be dealt with absolutely before all the other issues and concluded at the date of the natural expiry of the negotiations, because no one today is able to say how we will come to that date with the whole negotiation. I shall conclude on this point, which I have heard loudly in England during our mission, with a reflection. We criticize Europe. We can demonize it and say that all the problems in the world come from Europe. Someone, however, told us: Europe is like the air; we realize that it is vital when we miss it. [[Applause from the PD Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-902.ana.u29	Senator Compagna is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-902.ana.u30	Mr President, the President-in-Office of the Council outlined the difficulty of this negotiation on Brexit, a bit in terms that were also mentioned before me by my colleague Micheloni and that, in some way, brought to the attention of the Commission for Foreign Affairs, emigration of the Senate, the negotiator of Europe Barnier. Frankly, compared to this minuet on the money - but having the elegance to differ the moment in which it will really be worth money - to me, who have never been one of his admirers, it came to mind, with some nostalgia, another English premier, always Tory, Margaret Thatcher (I see Senator Micheloni smiling) who, more than twenty years ago, beat his fists on the table in Venice, taking for the jacket Emilio Colombo and Gianni De Michelis to the cry of: "I want my money back! It's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay. That brutality, compared to that Viennese minuet hypocrisy, is no reason to look, not even "all things considered" with satisfaction, at this European transition season: everything is confused and nothing goes in the direction of a greater strength of the European Union. From this point of view, there is one thing that struck me and that I point out to the undersecretary Gozi, who is a careful man. How is it possible that every time, before the European Council, we have this debate and we presume to give an assessment of the European Commission? Colleagues, so far the European Commission has proved to be a disaster and not a gossip about President Juncker's high ethyl rate, to which the President-in-Office of the Council has done well to express his gratitude for the expressions he has used towards our country. But in what capacity does Juncker say to the European Parliament that Turkey is, in any case, out of any possibility of entering Europe? If he has the right to say so, he would repeat it, for example, tomorrow at the European Council, otherwise it does not make sense. And what about the Vice President, the much condescending Mogherini? In the past few days, in the midst of so many contradictions, President Trump, less distraught than usual, has told the world something quite clear, namely that the right to nuclear - and with it the right to anti-Semitism - of Iran, which had been protected by the Obama Presidency for eight years, at least for America is coming to an end. And Mogherini didn't notice anything! Yesterday in Tehran I heard her praise the Corps of Guards of the Iranian Islamic Revolution (the Pasdaran, to say it in good Italian). We are talking about those who in 1988, in the famous massacre at the borders of Iraq, killed 30,000 people and used torture and the death penalty with libido. How can we fail to grasp these issues as Europeans? In September at the United Nations, not some sovereignist exponent, but the Danielle Mitterrand Foundation, on behalf of the Human Rights Committee, cited seven of these Iranian gentlemen as Gotha of crime. Why is Mogherini in pursuit of a pseudo-diplomatic role, or television, following a priority of American politics that is no longer there? From this point of view, the European Commission is really something opaque, insistent, disappointing, living in a world of its own. Allow me to make one final point. I hope that tomorrow the President-in-Office of the Italian Council will be able to stand up and convince us on all the issues that he has told us; but this Europe of 28 - which will become 27 - will be annaspa. How is it that we come to mind expressions of almost disgust towards the Poles, the Czechs, the Slovaks (the Visegrad Group's), how is it that we clash with interpretations to understand whether Austria will be closer to them or vice versa and instead we do not address the issue that enlargement policy, a policy wanted by the then President of the Roman Union Prodi, has been so messed up that it has foreshadowed every step forward towards the European Defence Community? This was Europe's original dream in the 1950s. One last line: I have heard of a Europe that becomes more Mediterranean. Then why does the Italian Government not deny the head of the Iranian Navy, who, together with the Iranian military, yesterday in Venice spoke, in a symposium, of Iranian-Italian cooperation? Neither Italy nor Europe needs these "mogherinates." [[Applause from Senators Giovanardi and Liuzzi]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-902.ana.u31	Senator Tosato is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-902.ana.u32	Mr President, it is with some embarrassment and with some difficulty that we are intervening in this debate. The first reason is due to the fact that the President of the Council appeared in this sitting, made his speech and then left, with a presence of the Government that is now very limited, with a now tired rite, that of the communications of the President of the Council before the European Councils, and with a difficulty on our part in commenting on the intervention of the President of the Council, which shows a very simple situation: either the current Government is totally out of reality or you are still trying vainly to mock the Italians compared to what is the real situation of our country. The President-in-Office spoke of Italy's successes, with optimism and an attitude that - as I said before - is very far from what is the real situation that citizens are experiencing every day. I will try to simply bring some data and some numbers, to show that this optimism and this wrong attitude on the part of the Government is obvious, it is clear, it is undeniable. I refer first of all to the issue of immigration, which will be one of the issues that will be dealt with. Last year there was a arrival of migrants in Italy over 170,000 units. Now we are in October, but the data says that at the end of September the arrivals amounted to almost 200,000 units, with an absolute record compared to the entrances and therefore with a total inability of this Government, both in Italy and in Europe, to stem this phenomenon. The numbers speak clearly and cannot be countered by optimistic attitudes on the part of the Minister of the Interior or the President of the Council. There is another figure, just these days, which is equally or perhaps even more worrying: in 2016 Italians who left and emigrated abroad, that is, seeking fortune abroad, amounted to 124,000 units, with a +15.4 percent compared to the previous year. So we are living in a very serious phase in the history of this country, in which we are able to attract migrants from all the countries of the world, without stopping this phenomenon, and we are making our country inhospitable to those who should be the protagonists of tomorrow, that is the future generations. Of these 124,000 Italian immigrants, 40 percent are 18 - to 34 - year - olds. Our new generations are looking for fortune abroad and are kicked out of this country. I believe that this is one of the most significant data, which highlights the failure of this Government and the previous one, represented by the President of the Council Matteo Renzi. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group]] These are incontrovertible figures, which cannot go unnoticed. But there is another significant fact. Those who emigrate, who escape from this country by now inhospitable, no longer come exclusively from the Southern Regions: the primacy belongs to Lombardy, with 23,000 citizens who last year left our country in search of luck; the second Region is represented by Veneto, with 11,600 citizens emigrated, which add to those of previous years. These are data that should worry anyone who is the Government, who should not have at the heart of its political action the will to take a measure called ius solo, to give citizenship to those born here regardless of their actual belonging to this community of ours. It should be another priority of this Government and of future governments, which will certainly change course, that is to give a future to our young people, to allow our families to grow and to have a future. We are witnessing the destruction of a cultural model, the European model, which is not hindered by this Government, nor by European governments, but is almost encouraged. The present Government is complicit in these phenomena. There is another significant fact that we want to highlight: a recent survey shows that only 36% of Italians consider it a good thing to be in the European Union, compared with a European average of 57%. These are the results you have achieved in our community as regards trust and hope in this new model. The growth of gross domestic product is only 1.4%, compared with a European average of over 2%, which shows that we are the taillight and that the optimism that you flag is absolutely inadequate and misleading. In Europe there was the referendum of Scotland, which wanted to break away from Britain, Brexit and Catalan, the electoral defeats of the traditional European, popular and socialist parties, which are now the guardians of the system and no longer represent the citizens. Now we are approaching an important referendum in Lombardy and Veneto for autonomy. [[Recalls of the President]] I'm done, Mr. President. I would like to clarify one aspect of these referendums and ask for the same time that has been granted to other colleagues. The demand for autonomy is not a contrast between regions of Europe or between regions of Italy, between peoples or between communities; it is an aspiration for self-government; it is a sign of a contrast between citizens and the State, between citizens and centralist governments. Governments that are no longer able to represent them, that no longer protect them, but rather oppress them, now unsustainable, with taxation, bureaucracy, rules. [[The microphone automatically switches off]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-902.ana.u33	He has already gone far beyond the time available to him. Finish the sentence, please. We have already given extra time.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-902.ana.u34	TOSATO (LN-Aut). Mr President, we believe in another model of Europe, which is not what has been carried out in recent years by the governments of the Democratic Party, from 2011 to today, and we are sure that Italian citizens also want a change and will express it clearly and unequivocally in the elections next year. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-902.ana.u35	They reached us from Maddaloni, in the province of Caserta, the students and teachers of the Liceo Classico "Giordano Bruno" (Giordano Bruno), visiting the Senate. Welcome to Madame Palace. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-902.ana.u36	She is registered to speak Senator Valdinosis. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-902.ana.u37	Mr President, the European Council of tomorrow and the day after tomorrow will, among others, have the task of defining policies and actions in the direction of building a real common space in the digital sphere. These will therefore be crucial issues, together with those of immigration, Brexit and the others mentioned by the President-in-Office of the Council, for the future of Europe. The Digital Single Market Strategy, adopted in May 2015, needs to be progressively but rapidly implemented with the aim of improving access to digital goods and services across Europe for citizens and businesses and fully grasping the growth potential of the digital economy. The Italian Government has already taken a decisive role, together with some European partners, in the desire to continue decisively towards the digital single market. At the same time, the Italian Government is committed to accelerating and strengthening the march to structure an appropriate ecosystem for digital innovation in our country. Unfortunately, despite the efforts made over the last two to three years, we are still at a disadvantage compared to many EU countries. The OECD report published a few days ago places our country at the bottom of the ranking on the degree of progress of technological transformation. We must not ignore this reality. I am convinced that only from the knowledge of our delays can we better share the need to continue a commitment to recover lost time. Our country has accumulated, since the beginning of the years 2000, delays in the infrastructure of broadband, in the digitisation of public administration and our productive apparatus. This has led to lower efficiency in the public system in the provision of services to citizens and businesses and in the production sectors, reduced competitiveness and loss of value for our economy. A serious delay that we have begun to recover in the last three years, with a really very decisive reversal of march, undertaken first by the Renzi Government and then by the Silveri Gentiloni Government. I am referring in particular to the investments and measures provided for in the ultra-wideband plan and the Industry 4.0 plan, which are giving an extraordinary boost to innovative investments, digitisation and research investments. A lot of progress has been made in recent years: awareness of the benefits of innovation has grown and incisive measures have been taken to give adequate support to businesses, stimulating collaborations with universities, research institutions and startups. It is not necessary for me to dwell on this point, the government knows well what the country needs. I am sure we share the belief that only through investment in science, technology, research and innovation can we give momentum and strengthen that economic recovery that significant indicators tell us in our country. The confirmation, not discounted, in the fiscal maneuver for 2018 of the continuation of Industry 4.0, which evolves in Enterprise 4.0, the support to investments of small and medium-sized enterprises, the structural incentive for youth employment, the recruitment of 1,500 researchers concretely demonstrate the attention of the Government on this front. Digital innovation is certainly not the only element, but it is certainly a strategic factor for growth. While it is true that Italy is lagging behind the challenge of digital, it is true that the European Union as a whole is, and the common area of work is still large in this area. Europe is lagging behind, politics is all behind in addressing the huge issues posed by the digital revolution. However, even at European level, in 2016 and 2017 we have made very important progress. I am referring to the issue of data protection, the cross-border portability of online content and, above all, the abolition of roaming charges and the agreement on free Internet access in public places. These are very concrete measures, which help to improve the perception of a European Union closer to the demands and needs of its citizens, especially young people. Answers that are also useful to counter false perception, driven by populist forces, of European institutions and decisions far from the real life problems of Europeans. For the future, the EU strategy aims to further expand the digital economy. According to a Community study, the economic value of data will increase in Europe from EUR 300 billion in 2016 to EUR 739 billion in 2020. The latest Community statistics also inform us of an exponential increase in cyber attacks, which has increased by 300 percent since 2015, with 80% of European companies having suffered at least one cyber-accident during the last year. These data highlight, together with the urgent need for an appropriate regulatory framework, the need for the completion of the Digital Single Market by next year. The transition to digital Europe requires specific priorities: high-quality communication infrastructures and networks; public administrations and public sectors fully adapted to the digital age; highly skilled education and training systems; increased investment in research and development; a common approach to cyber security and an updated tax regime. In short, it is a question of accompanying and supporting the ongoing process in Europe, in the public sector as well as in the private sector, because in the global world, to lag behind in the use of new technologies related to digital means to be destined to irrelevance. In the context of the enormous upheavals caused by the digital economy, security and defence, control of the phenomenon of radicalisation, emerge among the crucial issues. On this level, large web operators, which have huge amounts of data at global level, can and must cooperate with the European institutions. The European Union's attention to cyber security has grown a lot, but now it is time to establish a uniform regulatory framework. Finally, I would like to mention the issue of web tax, on which there seems to be a willingness to proceed with a common legislative proposal, a directive, in the spring of 2018. It obviously has economic repercussions, but it also has an impact on fairness: it is not ethically acceptable that there are companies that do not pay taxes, without neglecting distortions in terms of free competition and competitiveness. In short, it is also a question of applying to the digital economy what applies to any other economic sector, the principle that companies must pay taxes where they produce profits. I would like to point out, in this regard, that the huge revenues that could be derived from the web tax in Europe could be used in a profitable way for training and job creation for our young people. I wanted to conclude by mentioning the importance of integration in the digital field, which is an important basis for European integration. There is no future for our country without the European Union, the Union cannot be fully achieved without its full social and political realization. We need more Europe, we have seen it well, suffering from its shortcomings, in the event of the serious unfolding of the Catalan affair. Sixty years after the signing of the Treaty of Rome, which was commemorated today by the anniversary of the establishment of the European Economic Community, we have the task and responsibility of being able to renew and continually update the inspiration that led the founders of the European project to achieve what appeared to others as an impossible dream. The legacy we have received, a continent that lives in peace characterized by high standards of wealth and well-being, must push us to face with determination and courage the challenges of the future. [[Applause from the PD Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-902.ana.u38	Senator Cioffi is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-902.ana.u39	Mr President, let us consume this tired rite of speaking to the empty chairs of the government. Evidently the President of the Council thinks he is here, there and everywhere and has left Private Gozi to defend the barrel. Having said that, we talked about the European Union, which type of European Union. But what European Union? The one where Germany exceeds the limits of the trade surplus? That Europe? Where does Ireland make tax dumping through, for example, Ryanair on Italian companies? That Europe? Is this the Europe we want and to which we continue to go? The Europe that is also addressing the issue of Brexit? Perhaps we should get rid of the European licence on the London Stock Exchange because this is where 70% of the euro derivatives are concerned. Can we leave this in the hands of a state that is no longer part of the European Union? Lately even the International Monetary Fund has said that a universal income for all is appropriate, the income of citizenship that only we ask for. Which Europe are we talking about then? Among the many issues that will be addressed in the meeting tomorrow, there is also that of connectivity. In Italy we have some excellences that, however, concern only some areas of the country, typically the big cities. This is stated by Agcom in its 2017 study of 3G technology and not 5G technology, which is still in progress and which is being experimented in Prato. Moreover, this applies in the same way to fibre network infrastructures (when it comes to digitalization of the country). So when we talk about this fiber infrastructure, we talk about lost, deliberately lost opportunities, because the reality of the facts is always the same. In the last twenty years Italy is still hostage to the agreements and compromises to the bottom with the entrepreneur Silvio Berlusconi. This should tell the European Council the President of the Council, that we are victims of a compromise, of someone who has not wanted to develop telecommunications in Italy. Moreover, it is now evident with the game that is being played between Telecom Italia and Mediaset through the French Bolloré, which will pass through Cassa depositi and loans, which will socialize the losses of Telecom Italia, generated (we all remember) by Colaninno and Tronchetti Provera; Colaninno (we all remember this too) whose son was for a long time responsible economic of PD. All this always to continue to defend Berlusconi's economic interests and thus strengthen the steel pact between the Democratic Party and Forza Italia that has blocked this country for twenty years. We are still there and the electoral law is also the result of this agreement: it is always this that blocks the development of our country on the topic of telecommunications. If Berlusconi and his companies hadn't been there to be a crutch to this government and this strange majority, you'd have all gone home for a long time. Mr President, I have already asked for permission to hand over the text of my speech. As far as e-government is concerned, we all know that Italy' s position is very serious: we are 25th in 28 countries in the European Union. The situation in our country is very serious. There has been talk of Estonia, but in that country everything can be done with an identity card, so maybe we should understand from Estonia how we can actually achieve all this. With regard to immigration, our position has always been clear, not ideological or falsely good: it is a priority to overcome the Dublin regulation. However, Mr President, the problem is always the same because the situation we are in is clear, it is clear that the President-in-Office of the Council is now running out and we are all waiting for the electoral law, which everyone thinks will lead the 5 Star Movement to defeat. Yet, as always, when a law is made against someone, that someone will show the reality of those citizens who are really tired of this consort that has been going on for twenty years. [[Applause from the M5S Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-902.ana.u40	He's enlisted to speak Senator Barani. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-902.ana.u41	Mr President, our Group must also address Mr Gozi, because there are no ministers in this House. However, through its means, we too, paraphrasing the poem "Ancient plan" by Giosuè Carducci, want to stretch the little hand to the green pomegranate, that is, we want to give our contribution to the Government so that it also has the strength of our Group to impose itself in Europe. We have, of course, seen the three stages of the illustration from the President-in-Office of the Council; I would start with the third and do it like a stamp, in a telegraphic way. The President of the Council spoke about Brexit and also about the fate of the bank agency and that of the drug. Mr Undersecretary, I would say to the President-in-Office that Milan is not one of the candidates for the European Medicines Agency and must not use the indefinite article; Milan is the candidate, with the definite article, because it must come back from the meeting of the European Council bringing this agency to Italy, otherwise it would be a defeat of her and Italy. It is also because, Mr Undersecretary, Europe was made up of 28 countries, now 27, but it is not cohesive. There are the Baltic countries on the one hand with their interests and the countries facing the Mediterranean that have all other interests. In the first Republic, when there were also great statesmen, there was talk of Europe of the Mediterranean for the historical, cultural and economic affinities of the countries overlooking the Mediterranean. With the Baltic States, however, we are absolutely not similar. Finally, with regard to Brexit and the third phase, I listened to and appreciated Senator Micheloni's speech on Italians living in England who said that this is one of the priorities. In this case it is not one of the priorities but it is the priority. Indeed, our President-in-Office of the Council, when he meets Prime Minister May, must, of course, insist that they be effectively protected. As far as the first stage is concerned, I do not go too far because we will have the opportunity to discuss the digital Europe, the European defence and the web tax, but on the second point, that is, the common migration policies of Europe, the motion for a resolution that we have tabled, Mr Undersecretary, focuses precisely on this. We believe that Italians should be made aware of the facts. The President-in-Office cannot tell us that he does not understand why his people do not understand it because a big game is being played on the problems of Europe. Our resolution is an illustration, like a medical file, which contains objective tests, instrumental tests: there is a diagnosis and there is therapy. We have seen where migration comes from and what the percentages are (16 percent from Nigeria, 9 percent from Guinea and more) and only 5 percent of migrants come from countries where there are conditions of war and guerrilla warfare, i.e. Eritrea and Sudan. We have also seen that the countries I have mentioned have recorded a cumulative growth rate that is higher than that of the Eurozone and that of Italy. Indeed, their locomotive is stronger than ours, but there is a bad distribution of income and so few take so much and others, instead, have nothing and are in a state of poverty. It follows that the essential conditions for the granting of international aid and financing, the much-vaunted "Marshall Plan," must be a strong push to promote the democratic development of those countries. Mr. Undersecretary, there is no point in referring to the past when there were statesmen talking to those countries. In fact, when there was the Arab Spring, for us it was a winter and for the countries of North Africa a hell is now before everyone's eyes. At the time he was President of the Berlusconi Council, who spoke very well with Gaddafi and by now everyone recognizes that perhaps it was not necessary to wage war with him. Let us say, however, that Clinton and France have imposed this sacrifice on us, we have done so and of course we are paying for it. Don't forget Bettino Craxi when he was talking to the Palestinians, don't forget Andreotti who was able to dialogue with Iran and the Middle Eastern countries because we have to talk with those countries, we have to try to restrain them on the spot. Indeed, out of 110,115 migrants - of course, statistics - only 13,622 have been relocated to Europe. We are pleased to know that Italy has saved the honour of Europe and that we are respectful of human rights, but we must also say that all these immigrants who arrive in Italy must be relocated not only in Lombardy where we have the highest percentage - 16% and in our resolution is highlighted - but also in other countries, in countries as well as Austria or Germany that have had few and where, however, populist pushes have gone ahead and clashed with those who, instead, in a more accurate way, wanted to create the conditions to give aid. So we believe that in our resolution we have the necessary ideas to make it possible to bridge the gap in terms of overall well-being. We have therefore included points in which the Government must represent to the Council of Europe the extent of the efforts made and take into account the current economic and social situation of the countries of origin, which we have well illustrated in the incipit. The phenomenon must also require greater participation by individual European countries in the relocation of migrants and in the return work of those not entitled and in the financing of the extraordinary burdens arising from their livelihoods and which cannot consist solely in the recognition of greater margin of inflexibility in the budget. In this way, we believe that we have helped to ensure that the President-in-Office of the Council goes to Europe with an iron hand and allows the people to understand Italy's economic and migratory policy in the European context. [[Applause from Senator Pagnoncelli.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-902.ana.u42	He's enlisted to speak Senator Fornaro. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-902.ana.u43	Mr President, representatives of the Government, there is a premise that seems necessary because the words spoken in this House were and remain stones and the stones can be used to build or hit the opponent. On 14 December 2016, the President-in-Office of the Council in his inauguration speech said clearly: There is no doubt that when you discuss - and the Government will contribute - the new electoral rules, we will all be aware that this will be a discussion that will affect the way in which our democracy works. I think that is something to be taken into account. I will, of course, defend Parliament's prerogatives and do so with regard to everyone. Well, we cannot and must not be silent about what has happened in these days and how much these commitments have been betrayed, becoming rag paper. The President of the Council had committed himself to Parliament when it was established not to invade the territory of the electoral law, which throughout the civil and advanced world is a matter of strictly parliamentary competence. And instead, after putting the question of trust in the electoral law in the House, it has been announced by the newspapers that this will also happen in this branch of Parliament. We are faced - I would like to say this forcefully, inviting all our colleagues in the majority and opposition to reflect - with a clear and serious alteration of the material Constitution of our country. First of all, it should be remembered that ours is a parliamentary Republic in which Parliament is above the Government and not vice versa; it is the Government that receives confidence from Parliament. And besides, it is these hours and it is necessary to remember that we are in the presence of a system of equal bicameralism, while we will find ourselves unable to discuss the electoral bill in this branch of Parliament. A government that imposes for the first time since 1861, by the Unity of Italy, a double trust in the House and the Senate would betray the Italian Constitution. This Government, which we have loyally supported in the past months in this House, has not only disappointed us, our political side and our Group, but all Italians who believe in the Italian Constitution, its principles and the values expressed in that text. [[Applause from the groups Art.1-MDP and Misto-SI-SEL.]] What confidence can we give to the words of the President-in-Office of the Council that we have heard in this House? What value can be attached to the country's unity in the face of epochal phenomena, such as immigration? A reminder that comes from those who had committed themselves a few months ago to conduct a constitutionally respectful behaviour of Parliament's prerogatives and that, then, could go where even Mussolini did not arrive, that is to say, to trust... [[Comments from the PD Group.]] Let me explain, with a little history lesson: Mussolini put in the Chamber... [[Protests from the PD Group. Comments from the Group Art.1-MDP]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-902.ana.u44	Colleagues! Senator Fornaro, address yourself to the Presidency in your speech.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-902.ana.u45	FORNARO (Art. 1-MDP). Mr President, I take responsibility for what I said, because history says this: Mussolini, in 1923, put his trust in an amendment to the so-called Acerbo law and no government, from the Unity of Italy onward, placed trust on the electoral law in the Chamber of Deputies and the Senate. Forget me, if it's not true! [[Applause from the Groups Art.1-MDP and Misto-SI-SEL and the Senators Mussini and Simeoni.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-902.ana.u46	Let's go back to Europe, Senator Fornaro.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-902.ana.u47	FORNARO (Art. 1-MDP). Stop, President Gentiloni Silveri, because it's still in time! With this choice, the Government has also weakened the credibility of Italy, because in no great democracy could happen what happened in our country, with parliamentarians placed under the double blackmail of the trust and the failure of their head of the party, all just a few weeks after the natural end of the legislature. It is within this framework of rubble in parliamentary relations - produced by the Government with this choice - that the debate on the next European Council takes place. On the subject, as we said in the previous debate, it is clear that Brexit places critical aspects and opportunities, just as we must move forward in the field of defence, in the search for a common policy on this matter. With regard to immigration issues, in short, aid for international cooperation should be included in organic development projects, better coordinating national entrepreneurship interventions. However, we cannot continue to ignore the human rights violations in Libya's refugee camps every day. [[Applause from the groups Art.1-MDP and Misto-SI-SEL.]] Europe must not continue to ignore, in fact, the structural nature of the migrations that are taking place from Africa: without a long-term awareness and vision, we only end up putting dust under the carpet, without even reassuring the public opinion of the national states, as demonstrated by the last elections in Austria. Finally, taxation of the digital economy is a matter of absolute importance, both for the present and for the future and refers to the issue of common fiscal policies, which we recalled last time, against tax evasion and avoidance. Every year tens of billions of euros are taken away from the coffers of the national states, which are in fact taken away from school, health care and services provided by the state in an egalitarian way. It takes "physicists" to compete with the giants of the digital economy and to address the impacts on the rights and employment of workers produced by the so-called economy 4.0 and robots. This is an area in which the European Union must demonstrate that it is a useful tool for the citizens and not an instrument for the will of lobbyists and multinationals. I shall conclude, therefore, by reaffirming our deep disappointment with the Government and with the statements of the President of the Council, after his decision to place trust in the House of Deputies and invite him again to stop, because it is in time, and not to place it in the Senate as well. [[Applause from the groups Art.1-MDP and Misto-SI-SEL. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-902.ana.u48	He's enlisted to speak Senator Liuzzi. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-902.ana.u49	Mr President, I would like to address the President-in-Office of the Council, although he is not here, and thank him anyway for his report, which we have listened to with great interest, also because the European Council, which will be held on 19 and 20 October next, sees on the agenda some issues, which have now become recurrent in this House, but which, about four months after the last European Council in June, has seen significant developments in the political situations and initiatives of various European governments, which are certainly to be assessed with due attention. I am referring specifically to the issue of illegal migration flows and the measures to be taken to control them. Mr President, the scenarios outlined today in Europe do not make us feel comfortable, since in Germany Chancellor Merkel won the general elections, but her party did not go well and lost so many seats in Parliament, while the far-right AfD party broke down, carrying out a campaign to contest the policies on immigration and the choices of the German Government to welcome thousands of refugees from Syria and other countries with a Muslim majority. Merkel, on the other hand, who is preparing to deal with a change in the majority, has openly stated that during the new mandate she will do everything necessary to understand the concerns, anxieties and fears of voters who have chosen to vote AfD. What that means, I think we'll see it at a time not so far away. Meanwhile, a coalition of states has been created in open opposition to migrants, formed by Hungary, the Czech Republic, Slovakia and Poland. In Austria we witnessed the very recent victory of Sebastian Kurz, a Head of Government who would be ready to ally with the Eurosceptics of the FPÖ, party of Heinz-Christian Strache, who would seem tempted by the idea of making an alliance with the anti-migrant coalition and thus continue to obstruct the policies of the European Union's reception. These countries, in fact, to which I now add Germany, seem to be concerned by the problem of regaining the confidence of their citizens, which seems to pass precisely from the abandonment of the reception policies of Brussels and could be tempted by the idea of being free from the concepts of mutuality, both in the economic and migratory fields. If Austria were also to openly support the anti-migrant coalition led by Hungary, we would indeed see a proliferation of the phenomenon of the blinding of borders both internally and externally. Also, let us not forget that next week the Czech Republic will vote, where observers say they expect the victory of the eurosceptic party ANO 2011, led by Andrej Babis. Therefore, we can say that in Europe there is a sinister, bizarre wind that resonates skepticism and precariousness: a wind that feeds the fears of the links between immigration and terrorism, which rejects the mandatory reception quotas decided by Europe, because it argues that this is a system that stimulates migratory flows and also reinforces the affairs of traffickers. A wind that turns when it reaches the squares and outskirts of the Continent into mainstream, favoring the conviction that people cannot be held in any place against their will. Above all, it is a wind that pushes on the concept of sovereignty, claiming that no one can compress the right of a national state to decide what to do on its own territory, when the popular will and common sense act in a manner contrary to the will of Brussels. I say this, Mr President, because it seems to me that the change of course that we are observing weakening European policies, with the risk of such manoeuvres being created that Italy could be even more alone in dealing with migration, in the face of the pressures that we also call for sovereignty and national interest. The President of the Council said that in the area of migration flows Italy has saved Europe's honour, but it has done so at the expense of Italian citizens, the commitment of the Italian Order Forces, the civil protection organisations of the Italian local communities and the Italian material resources. Today we have a Europe that has experienced the Brexit phenomenon, with the determination of England to make even the influx of European workers more difficult. In France, Macron confirmed that he wanted to expel refugees who committed crimes in France. And then there was the story of Catalonia, which also stood out for its pro-immigrant initiatives. That, Mr President, is the scenario that we are being questioned today and on which serious consideration must be given. Concerns about a delay in the implementation of the Government's plan to reduce the migratory flow are increasing, as are growing doubts about the possible marginalisation of Italy compared to the European framework that will be set out in the coming months. The soft attitude, the laxity, the piety have led us to this deplorable situation; they pushed us to the bottom of the ravine. Moreover, there are increasing concerns for a government whose will is to strengthen the reception policies with the accelerated approval of the ius soli, which really seems to us an inappropriate, or even wrong, move, in the light of what is happening around us. This risks feeding populist attitudes of insuffering which, riding the anxieties of the country's belly, risk hindering not only the processes of integration, but also of simple solidarity, and appear to us, as well as to the majority of Italians, eager for political and electoral opportunism. We have gained the conviction that Europe's migration policy has never been compact, unambiguous, clear, but has undergone continuous changes of course, as we have often heard in this House complaints about some very wrong and inadequate proposals from the European Union in order to manage such a massive crisis. We must realise that these challenges make Europe even more fragile. I have already said this in this House, Mr President, and I repeat this: we are not Eurosceptics, but we are strongly insisting on the need to protect our country's interests in all areas, with the aim of reviewing our commitments within the Union. We are not Eurosceptics, but convinced Europeans, although we strongly criticize today's European leadership. The renunciation of the European Commission's attitude of not wanting to understand the harmful phenomena in everyday life, on the territory, in the outskirts of the continent, determines the growing detachment of the European and national leadership from the European peoples. Just yesterday I was, on behalf of the 14th Senate Commission, in Montenegro, a small candidate country for membership of the European Union, to meet the representatives of Parliament. I can assure you that the confused framework of the European Union raises many concerns and indecisions in the governments of the Balkans, undermining enlargement policies. In short, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, there is a serious change of direction and we hope that the European Council will also feel the need for it in the next two days. However, let me have some doubts about this. Therefore, in accordance with the different sensitivities of the Group to which I am a member, the LAG Group, I would like to express my concern about today's communications. [[Applause from the LAG Group (DI, GS, PPI, RP)]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-902.ana.u50	He is enlisted to speak Senator De Cristofaro. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-902.ana.u51	Mr President, I must say that I find it quite ridiculous to have the parliamentary debate the day before the European Council because, as everyone understands, knowing how the European Councils' timetables are prepared, how their agendas and guidance documents are built, it is quite obvious that the debate that the Italian Parliament is today has characteristics of pure rituality: there is no practical and practical possibility for this Parliament to be able to enter not only into the decisions of the European Council, but also into the political debate. To this - as you can see - it must be added the fact that the Government, perhaps for these reasons too, is very small; in fact the President of the Council is absent and this fact really says a lot about how Parliament is being taken into account with respect to choices that would deserve much more attention and other seriousness. I must also say, on the subject of the report by the President-in-Office of the Council, Gentiloni Silveri (I am sorry that he is not here), that frankly I find his optimism somewhat unjustified, if I may say so, and I also say so as a convinced Europeanist and as a historian, as far as I and my party are concerned, in support of and support of Europeanist positions. I believe that if we pretend that we do not look at what has happened in Europe over the years and pretend that we do not even look at what has happened in recent weeks, we really risk making a political mistake with very serious consequences. It is said that we have finally reached a stable growth rate of 2% to 2.2%, but we forget to add that this is probably due to a cyclical situation, mainly and fundamentally linked to a hyper-expanding monetary policy of the European Central Bank. Moreover, we are talking as if we were really faced with the magnificent progressive fate of a strong presence and increase of those political forces oriented towards greater integration, just as if we pretended not to see what happened politically, Undersecretary, in recent years in the European Union. How can you not see that, on the other hand, they have established themselves and continue to assert themselves, unfortunately, instances very different from those of which you speak? How can you, above all, fail to see that we are faced with a political collapse of traditional political forces, the mainstream forces, those that have in all these years made the mantra of Europe a sort of indisputable paradigm? In recent years, exactly the opposite of what has been said has happened in Europe: traditional political forces are those which, even from an electoral point of view, are experiencing the greatest elements of difficulty, while coalitions of a different kind, which have interpreted the most critical instincts of the European Union, are the ones that have received the most votes electorally. Fortunately, this has not happened only on the extreme right-wing side, nationalism and xenophobia, i.e. on the side of those who criticized and used the European Union's crisis from the right. It has also happened with political and social forces from my and from our point of view very positive and encouraging, as in the Spain of Podemos, in France of Mélenchon, in the England of Corbyn, in Portugal of the Left Block, where, evidently, political and social subjects have said in some way that the king is naked: this Europe is naked, the hypothesis of Europe that the main European countries have built in recent years, which has been a generative factor of gigantic social inequalities. I am truly surprised that at a meeting of the national Parliament before the European Council in the speech of President Gentiloni Silveri, there is no mention of what is happening in Spain, not even a short distance from us in Catalonia, of what today undermines, with great elements of contradiction, the foundations of a possible European democracy. It is astonishing that there is no mention of the great issue of democracy, the democratic deficit and the lack of European sovereignty. I think I can say that we really need a much more advanced debate on this than we do. Moreover, I believe that this unjustified optimism and this removal of what is happening around us do not deal with the other great element that should, once and for all, be put at the heart of the political debate on this continent. Or we take full note that Europe as it has been built, the bond of the Treaties, the idea that monetary union should come before any other aspect is a degenerate and degenerative phenomenon that will inevitably cause disintegration and that it is not simply necessary, but essential to build elements of radical discontinuity compared to what has been done over the years, or we will witness in a supine and impotent way what will inevitably be a disintegration. We are telling you this today because over the last few years we have spoken too many words which, unfortunately, have not been sufficiently deepened by the public debate in this country. For example, attention should be paid to the fact that at the end of 2017 the fiscal compact could be fully incorporated into the European legal system, becoming legally superior to national legislation and thus making austerity policies irreversible. Do you understand or do you not understand that even simply a fact like this risks making debates like what we are doing tonight totally useless compared to what can happen over the coming years? Even with regard to the proposal to transform the European Stability Mechanism into a European Monetary Fund with powers to monitor national budgets, how can we fail to see, Mr Signot Secretary, that it can introduce giant elements of the European Commission's extortion and, from this point of view too, of total regression from what would be needed instead? It seems to me that the Italian Government and the two main European political groups, the Socialist Group and the People's Group, are really on these issues, united by the same dramatic electoral disaster that they are making in recent years and by the loss of tens of millions of votes of consensus, a gigantic short-sightedness in not seeing what are the great fundamental elements that should be dealt with. Finally, I am only making a joke about immigration because my time is running out. Many times I have insisted, both in the Commission and in this House, on asking to know to the full the truth about what has been established with this blessed Libyan Government, about what is happening about the history of migrants and what is happening on the Libyan coasts (I refer to the so-called concentration camps on those coasts, where torture and torture are carried out against migrants): on this thing it cannot be allowed that there can be even the slightest doubt. You have a duty to say to the full what has been established by Italy, what agreements have been made, what has happened, if these agreements concern only Libya, which governments have been held in this matter, if these agreements also concern General Haftar and Egypt of President al-Sisi. You have to say if these agreements also concern the fact that we have sent our ambassador back to Egypt despite the lack of truth about the case of the Regeni. I believe that on these matters Parliament and the country cannot afford even the existence of a doubt: we must say to the full what has been decided and negotiated, because something like this undermines the credibility of our country. [[Applause from the Mixed-SI-SEL Group and Senator Guerra]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-902.ana.u52	Senator Santangelo is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-902.ana.u53	Mr President, in view of the limited time available, I would ask you in advance to give me the written text of my speech, so that it can be annexed to the Minutes of the sitting.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-902.ana.u54	Senator Santangelo, the Presidency authorizes you to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-902.ana.u55	SANTANGELO (M5S). The report by the President-in-Office of the Council has been absolutely empty. I see that President Gentiloni Silveri has gone away and that Secretary Gozi is now in the Chamber, who probably - I know I am not very popular to say this - would have done well to write two words for the President, given his experience with the Council of Europe. Therefore, in this specific case, I am referring to the "president" Gozi. Tomorrow, at the European Council, we will also talk about the common foreign and security policy, the common European defence project and also the immigration policy. I took notes, Mr. Undersecretary. Consider that on the Common Foreign and Security Policy (CFSP) President Gentiloni Silveri reported that there will be small steps forward. This, as I am also Vice President of the Defence Commission, leaves me absolutely perplexed. In fact, going to see quickly how many European missions (not only Italian) are active at this moment in the Mediterranean area alone, we note that there are six: Italy spends about 210 million euros on these six missions. I would have liked to confront myself on this argument, so that, if we talk about common defense, first we start from the assumptions of what is an Italian defense model, then this Italian defense model we bring in comparison with other European countries and we could maybe pull out from this concept of common defense something convenient also for Italy. But so far it has not been. As far as the immigration issue is concerned, President Gentiloni Silveri has given an absolutely out-of-the-way view. I would like to refer to a figure relating to this morning: this morning in Sicily, in Trapani, another ship arrived with about 70 immigrants. It is true that the number has fallen compared to the previous months, but it is true that a given is before everyone's eyes: the arrival of migrants has shifted to the Libyan side and therefore President Gentiloni Silveri can say that we managed to block the central part of the Mediterranean. Well, look at the right side of the Mediterranean (or left, depending on where we look at it), that is to say Tunisia, because that is the new path that has opened. Then, this optimistic vision clashes with the reality of the facts, which certainly cannot escape you, because the same Government has always sold the Italian territory for a bit of flexibility and the immigrants in that case arrived daily and thousands. So there are tens of thousands of immigrants who are on Italian soil and this certainly does not facilitate. President Gentiloni Silveri didn't mention relocation. How do you do that? Mr Undersecretary, since you will be taking part in this meeting tomorrow, please note that they have forgotten the relocation, which is not what President Gentiloni Silveri has been talking about, that is, from Libya to the other States (which I can also do well with), but that is what Italy brings to the other States. So bilateral connections between nation and nation must be made, something that has not been reported. In a quiet way, I apologise to the Undersecretary for complimenting him today, because perhaps this will not help him, and I leave my report to the record, from which he may be able to draw inspiration. [[Applause from the M5S Group. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-902.ana.u56	He's enlisted to speak Senator Susta. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-902.ana.u57	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, there are four major issues on the agenda at this European Council, which are also the great challenges of this time, in which the issues of development, cooperation, innovation and security cross the opportunities and difficulties facing us and which require ever faster, more effective and more convincing responses from public opinion, on which we also measure the capacity of democracy to be a ruling democracy and not only the expression of parliamentary rituals that are now obsolete. As has already happened between the two world wars of the last century, when the strong expansion of the first half of globalization was interrupted, we are witnessing nationalistic retreats in politics and protectionist trade, naively autarchic vocations in economics, improbable improbable bucolic horizons. Trade grows less quickly than the economy for the second time in one hundred and sixty years. The first time was after the 1929 depression and the prohibitionist wave that followed. Populism and nationalism do not stop blowing over the West, as the recent Austrian vote shows. In this context, Europe either strengthens itself in its supranational dimension or risks its dissolution, with everything that follows, especially for the most fragile countries. Therefore, on the issues to be addressed by this European Council (immigration, digital market, defence, external relations, Brexit), we need to be fully aware of the challenge facing us. It is not enough to take stock of these matters. On immigration, it is time to make concrete progress on the reform of the Common European Asylum System and additional immediate measures are needed, both to control illegal migration flows on all routes, and to support Member States in the front row, such as Italy, and to strengthen cooperation with organisations operating on the ground, as well as with the strengthening of Frontex. But we will not tire of saying that we need to step up our cooperation efforts towards North Africa and sub-Saharan Africa and that, without full awareness of the historical mistakes of the national states (not the European Union) in their relations with Africa, so that development policies can be put in place rather than neocolonialism, so that we can solve the problem and not just contain it, we will not be able to solve these epochal problems. This requires additional resources from the European budget, which none of the stated objectives can really be pursued. Additional resources that are not in the availability of European democratic institutions - Parliament reads - but only of the Member States. Resources essential for the launch of permanent structured cooperation to strengthen European security and defence, another ambitious objective of this European Council, which regains the original spirit of the European Union, which considered common defence as one of the pillars on which to build a united Europe and whose failure still weighs like a boulder on the political integration of Europe. The future of the Union is playing on these great issues of our time, which cannot but answer the question of how to continue on the path of integration. As President Gentiloni Silveri has already mentioned on other occasions and as President Tusk has said in recent days in view of the forthcoming European Council, we must not abandon the objective of bringing the 27 to shared positions, which extend the process of integration. However, as a convinced supporter of the federalist dream, I say that we cannot remain prisoners of our just principles, especially when the alternative is paralysis, even worse if it is the result of a distorted way of conceiving and exercising its membership of the Union. Against those who block any possibility of reform of the common asylum law, common policy on migrants, control and security of external borders, the completion of the single market, including the digital market, the establishment of a web tax that restores equal opportunities in the market and avoids tax dumping, both internal and external, and also on trade policies and economic governance, it is necessary to facilitate mechanisms of enhanced cooperation, in order to allow those who want to move forward in European solidarity. It is not a question of giving in to an apathetic pragmatism, which is decoupled from the reference values of the European model, but of bearing in mind that public opinion requires action adapted to the problems of our time. A concreteness guided by the founding values of the European Union, without which this ideal risks being overwhelmed. Only in this way will we be able to give answers on security, immigration, eurozone reform, social Europe, which are the next appointments of the next Councils. This does not mean giving up ferrying all 27 partners to another time in history. We cannot give up the full exercise of Europe's political vocation, even in the face of the disintegration processes of the nation-states formed in the 18th and 19th centuries, of recurrent autonomous demands, which, without proper governance, which requires a political Europe, risk becoming processes of disintegration which, if without a horizon, are destined to be overwhelmed by new authoritarianisms or to produce (see the history of Ireland, South Tyrol and the Basque Country) a new terrorism. It is in the balance between stubbornness in the pursuit of unity and respect for objective diversity that we must find the way to make the European dream that is currently in crisis more and more topical and convincing. But politics is not the mere act of the existing: it is the instrument to make hope become a reality, to make people understand that it is possible. It is the patient exercise of the search for the best means of achieving the goal, provided that it is clear what the aim is, and this has not always been so clear in recent years. It is with this hope that we hope that Parliament will be able to accompany your efforts, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, and that of the Government, which has been so present in this House today, with authority, and that we want to continue in this effort for a united Europe and for greater integration. [[Applause from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-902.ana.u58	I declare closed the debate on the communications of the President of the Council of Ministers. I communicate to the Assembly that motions for resolutions No 1, by Senator Guerra and other senators, No 2, Senator Centinario and other senators, No 3, Senators Zanda, Bianconi and Zeller, No 4, Senator Barani and other senators, No 5, Senator De Petris and other senators, No 6, Senator Montevecchi and other senators, and No 7, Senator Romani Paolo and other senators, whose texts are distributed. I call on the representative of the Government to give an opinion on the motions for resolutions that have been tabled.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-902.ana.u59	Mr President, there have been many issues raised, but there are some points on which the Government has been asked for clarification which I would like to give briefly. I would like to remind Senator Monti once again that the Government has taken a position on the future budget of the European Union with a paper presented in April and I also recall that when we talk about reforming the euro area we do not simply want to complete economic and monetary union, but we also want to call into question some existing rules. That is why we have raised a debate on the 2011 rules and also on various aspects of fiscal compact. To Senator Paolo Romani, who asked how we are negotiating on Brexit, I would like to say that the negotiation is between the European Union and the United Kingdom and not between the 27 countries and the United Kingdom, so it is not that the Government of each country gives its own figure on Brexit, as we were at an auction (who says 20, who says 40, who 60 and who 80), but on a fundamental point to start the second phase as that of financial obligations, which you raised in your speech, we are telling the British that they must tell us what criteria and what parameters to follow in order to fulfil their financial obligations. These obligations are not a return, but are fulfilled for the period from 2014 to 2020 and which, as you know, according to European rules are to be understood as extending to the next three years, therefore until 2023. It is useless to give figures: it is up to the British to tell us what the criteria are for dealing with this issue, which is fundamental. Just as fundamental is the theme raised by the president of the Committee for the Issues of Italians Abroad, Senator Micheloni, of the rights of our compatriots and in general of the citizens of the European Union in the United Kingdom. The Committee's work is of great value, as was very useful in the study undertaken by the Committee. I was in London a few days before you were there and, as you know, I had meetings on behalf of the Government and you know what position I held with respect to specific issues of great importance that concern our fellow countrymen very much, such as automatism in the transition from permanent residence to settled status and the theme of family reunions. On these points, after Theresa May's speech in Florence, there have been some progress in the negotiations, which we want to record, but it is clear that we must protect all the rights of our fellow citizens and other citizens of the European Union in the United Kingdom. I therefore fully agree with your invitation and, even with the strength of your work, we are continuing to negotiate on this point at a technical level. There are steps forward, such as the recognition by the British of the role of the Court of Justice of the European Union and the direct effect of the Court's judgments on the rights of our citizens. President. - The next item is the statement by Senator Barani, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats. I wish I could say that Milan is the only candidacy for the EMA, but it is not the definite or indeterminate article: I am convinced that Milan is a very competitive candidacy. Of course, there are other very competitive nominations and that is why, as the President of the Council recalled, the Government, with the Lombardy Region and President Maroni, with the City of Milan and the Mayor Sala and with all the stakeholders of the private sector, is doing a very intense teamwork in a very competitive race. We are facing this race trying to make the most of the potential of Milan, but unfortunately it is not the only candidacy. There are 19 others and I would say that on the fingers of the hand or one hand - Senator Barani, you choose the article, definite or indeterminate - there are others we have to confront. I certainly agree with you on your assessment of the strength of the Milan candidacy. Finally, I respond to Senator Santangelo. There are specific points on the defense. I would also like to remind them that the leaders will discuss the creation of the European Defence Fund and the legislative proposal for a European defence industrial development programme. The objective, which I believe will be achieved, is to adopt the legislative proposal and also to launch the Fund by the end of the year, also in the light of the conclusions that may come and which Italy hopes for at the summit tomorrow and Friday, because we fully share the objective of moving forward on Europe and defence from these concrete projects. President. - I now come to the opinions on the resolutions. I am in favour of the motion for a resolution No 1, if it is reworded as follows: to the paragraph beginning with the words: 'While waiting for a broader reform of the common European asylum system', rather than with the words: 'to propose as a matter of urgency', to continue with the words: 'to remedy the urgency of exceeding the rules of the Dublin Regulation' and, in the third paragraph, to replace the words: 'to propose a strong diplomatic policy initiative of the European Union' by the words: 'to continue the strong diplomatic political initiatives of the European Union'. If these wordings are accepted, the opinion is in favour. The opinion is against the motion for a resolution No 2 and against the motion for a resolution No 3. On motion for a resolution No 4, the opinion is in favour if the last paragraph of the proposal is reworded to the following words: "budgetary flexibility" and delete the following three lines. I am against the motion for a resolution. 5 and 6. The opinion is also opposed to the motion for a resolution No 7, in particular in view of the non-sharing of the premises.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-902.ana.u60	We shall now proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-902.ana.u61	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-902.ana.u62	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-902.ana.u63	Mr Quagliarello (FL-Id-PL, PLI)). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I believe that the resolutions reflect today's lack of debate, and above all - I must say with regret - the lack of communication from the President-in-Office of the Council. Three points have been touched in a totally unsatisfactory way. To say that Italy has always been a country that has sought a higher level of integration is to say an obvious fact that is frankly not worthy of being heard in this House. The problem is how to achieve this higher level of integration. There was a phase in the history of European integration, the initial one, in which for our country the greater integration meant basically to adhere to a federalist scheme that then De Gasperi, on the one hand, and Altiero Spinelli, on the other, declined with some diversity. This scheme has failed, Mr Susta, precisely on defence policy, and it has failed precisely because, in reality, the problem of the creation of a shared political power nucleus has not been solved. Somehow, the European army had the same bug as the single currency: longer steps were taken without solving the problem of the political core that had to guide and give an address to these steps. From the Treaties of Rome onward, the problem of European integration has been solved in another way, that is, through what is called the Monnet method: there is a problem that is somehow understood by the people of Europe and the level of sovereignty that is necessary to resolve it is given away, then we start from that level of transfer of sovereignty in order to solve a more complex one, so that sovereignty can be transferred. What has happened since the fall of the Wall onward, particularly with the creation of the single currency, is that from a certain point on the national states have given up sovereignty, but this sovereignty has not been taken over by any other core political power and that is why it has disappeared. What we expect when it comes to finding a way to look in the wake of what our country has done is for us to be given a new recipe. How do we create this higher level of integration, beyond the slogans and appeal to a past that can no longer return, because the situation in the world has changed and why has Europe's situation changed compared to that world? I have to say that I have found the same generality with regard to immigration policy positions. Here again: what is this Italian model? Humanity and solidarity. They are not a model, they are principles that should inspire a policy. This policy is not there, our country does not have it and Europe does not have it. Frankly, it will certainly not be sufficient, not commendable, a policy that only proposes to seal up borders, but a policy that tends to defend the borders of Europe together has not yet been indicated and I do not think that we have had anything more to reason on here. Finally, Brexit. Gentlemen of the Government, I would like this to be taken as a concrete occasion on which we will begin the work of rewriting the Treaties which cannot be postponed. On the basis of a concrete problem that Europe has, we could arrive at a new institutional framework that can make Europe something more concrete than that slogan a vacuum and void that we have heard in this House today. These are the reasons, Mr President, for which our Group will be voting in favour of motions for resolutions Nos. 2 and 7. Since foreign policy is not a matter that should divide the national community, we will adhere to this principle on all the others. [[Applause from the FL groups (Id-PL, PLI, FI-PdL XVII and LN-Aut.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-902.ana.u64	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-902.ana.u65	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-902.ana.u66	CANDIANI (LN-Aut). Mr President, the limited time, but above all the circumstances, make this speech almost void in an explanation of vote. Yes, because we would have liked to speak with the Government but unfortunately we have seen that, for more than two hours now, both the President of the Council of Ministers and all the other Ministers have left, leaving two Undersecretaries. It is a matter of respect for the issues and arguments put forward. I would like to speak and I would like to see the voice of Italian companies that are no longer able to operate on the market and not only the large ones but the smaller ones, small and medium-sized enterprises, as I say every time in the Commission: from agricultural ones to industrial and craft ones. I would have liked to speak with the Government on these issues, because we have companies that no longer have the ability to compete within the same European dumping system, because there are countries - and I am thinking of the Czech Republic, Slovakia and other countries of Eastern Europe that have joined the Union in recent years - which have wage levels, contributory levels and lower electricity costs up to 25-30 per cent, conditions that make it impossible for our companies to operate in a competitive environment - alas - in a Europe that you, on the other hand, decline as the solution of all problems. We would have liked to talk to ministers who are not here. Undersecretary Gozi, where are the ministers of your government? We saw them, of course, on the train with Renzi. Then their attention is to turn by train, moreover also doing pole figures in Regions in which the railways are not even there anymore (I think of Umbria, where the railways were even closed), to the right and left to make electoral propaganda together with the secretary of the party, deserting the session of the Senate where we must relate with the Parliament for the priorities that the Government must bring to Europe for our country. You're not serious. Do not be serious, lack of seriousness! And I understand that coming to the end of this legislature, you are also missing the sense of ridicule, but - damn it - in a circumstance like this, leaving all those desert benches, what seriousness does it show towards the country? This is the same seriousness that brings you today to say that your Government's priority is the ius soli, not the interest of Italian citizens. Go to Europe to say that your priority and the "0.0 and something" priority over GDP and that the next steps that the Government will take and with which it will commit the majority in Parliament concern the ius solo. Fantastic! In Europe they laugh at you, but the Italian citizens themselves ask you: what are you doing? But how do you, with regard to a country that, on the other hand, points out to you in every way its priorities? Undersecretary Gozi, in these same hours, in these days, we have been able to see once again what happens when our unprotected citizens have to defend themselves. What about the self-defense law where you forgot it? You have left our fellow citizens at the mercy of those same thieves that you have freed with all the so-called empty prison measures, always covering your shoulders saying that it is Europe that is calling for the release of prisons. Then leave our fellow citizens to defend themselves with their bare hands or as they can, with a system that does not even protect them. The priorities are called law on self-defense, lowering the cost of labour, they are called rights, the same rights as a worker who, after working his whole life, does not have a pension and needs to go and ask for the Social Bee, after which he is also rejected the application. You're ridiculous! It is on these things that you must be credible when you confront each other in Europe. The problem is that you are not aware of the role you have to play towards other European countries. Citizens are much more mature than you are. They want democracy, they want to participate and they will show it to you next spring, in the elections, when they will drive you home, but they already show it today, wanting to participate democratically in a referendum that will take place in Lombardy and Veneto, because the autonomy that is required in those Regions is nothing more than the freedom to do business, to have the resources to operate in the economy, to be able to cover the social costs of which today the Government is forgotten, to be able to equip those realities of infrastructure that today the Government forgets, despite the fact that there are taxes paid for tens of billions of euros. On these issues we would have liked to see you engaged in a revisiting of the concept of participation in the European Union, because if participating in the European Union means adapting to the rules, it is not hiding the trash under the carpet that solves the problems, it is not denying the problem of the government's inability to manage the flows of illegal immigration that show seriousness. Mr Gozi, in the draft legislative decree that you presented to the Commission today to ask for its opinion, with which you revisit the composition of the committees that must assess who really has the right to be recognized as a refugee, what do you do? Do you increase the commissions? No. Revisit the members, remove the policeman and the representative of the local administrations to put us two officials of the Ministry of the Interior who can, at the command, decide and speed up the practices. This is what you do and this is your way of being serious. Of course, the statistics will eventually say that the Italian system works, you will go to Europe and it will applaud you, and the Italians will continue to pay out of their pocket your inability to decide to govern. You have to go home, other than to Brussels! [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group.]] (at 7.15 p.m.)
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-902.ana.u67	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-902.ana.u68	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-902.ana.u69	Mr Barani (ALA-SCLP). Mr President, our Group thanks the Under-Secretary and welcomes the rewording of the third commitment of motion for a resolution No 4. We are pleased to have made a contribution and have confirmed that we want the headquarters of the drug agency to be in Milan. We are convinced that the Government will succeed in this, as we are convinced that Theresa May will succeed, as a priority, in protecting the rights of our citizens resident in the United Kingdom. In our resolution there is also a reference to migration policies, against which we have shown the counter-song of new poverty, economic migrants, of countries that have a cumulative growth rate higher than that of the eurozone and that of Italy. Let me quote one statistic: there are more private jets at Mogadishu Airport than there are in the hangars in Nice. This is to say that there are riches there, but they are distributed in an abnormal way: many are the poor and very few are the rich. It is for this reason that, with our resolution, we want the Government to commit itself, including at the level of the United Nations and the European Union, to bring democracy to those countries; this obvious contradiction is otherwise likely to generate forms of struggle between the poor and to fuel fear and discomfort. These are phenomena that Europe must take into account in order to avoid the success of populist movements. Let's return to the famous concept of merits and needs, to be pursued with seriousness and ability, that we believe President Gentiloni Silveri must bring, even with an iron fist, to Europe to guarantee, to make understand and form in Italy the awareness that with merits and needs you can go forward and progress. [[Applause from the ALA-SCCLP Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-902.ana.u70	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-902.ana.u71	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-902.ana.u72	FORNARO (Art. 1-MDP). Mr President, we accept the rewording put forward by the Government on motion for a resolution No. 1, at the first signature of Senator Guerra. Our explanation of vote ends here, however, as a sign of protest for the overall management of the Assembly's work, which saw the benches of the Government substantially empty throughout the debate, with all respect for the Undersecretary Gozi. The President of the Council cannot listen to three speeches and then leave and all the Ministers disappear at the same time. The natural order has been reversed, which sees the minor groups first intervene and then the larger groups. If we are to proceed in this way I think it would be more appropriate, next time to hold a joint meeting of the Foreign Affairs Committees of the House and the Senate; we would all be more impressive. [[Applause from the Art.1-MDP Group and Senator Bignami.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-902.ana.u73	This is an excellent suggestion, Senator Fornaro, for the reform of the Rules of Procedure with regard to this type of debate.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-902.ana.u74	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-902.ana.u75	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-902.ana.u76	LIUZZI (GAL (DI, GS, PPI, RI)). Mr President, while respecting the sensitivity of the Group to which I belong, I declare that we will vote in favour of the motions for resolutions tabled by the Group of Forza Italia and the Group of the League; instead, we will abstain on the others.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-902.ana.u77	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-902.ana.u78	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-902.ana.u79	PANIZE (Aut (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT)-PSI-MAIE). Mr President, representatives of the Government, ladies and gentlemen, in order to facilitate the work, I ask that I be able to deliver the written text of my speech, so that it may be published in today's Report, and I simply renew the appreciation of the Group for the Autonomous-PSI-MAIE for the words of the President of the Council and the support for the government's action in Europe. I would just point out that it is important for Europe to put economic recovery at the centre, support for Italy in managing the migration crisis, because all too often we have been left alone. We have appreciated the effective work done in these months, but today our country needs the help of European partners. On economic policy we must push even more firmly on all measures that increase growth. The data, however positive, are not yet able to cushion the blow inflicted on our system in the very hard years of the crisis. Finally, on the Catalan question, I renew the invitation also expressed by President Zeller to a greater Italian and European interventionism. Work is being done to reopen a confrontation between Madrid and Barcelona, recognizing the self-government of the Catalan people and averting a crisis, the effects of which, for the whole of Europe, could be unpredictable, with a real domino effect. At the same time, it is important for Europe to play its role in the world, as an element of stabilisation with respect to the great tensions, from Korea to Iran, but also in its relationship with Turkey. I therefore declare the Group's vote in favour of the motion for a resolution No 3, first signed by Senator Zanda, also signed by our President Zeller. [[Applause from the Aut Group (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT) - PSI-MAIE]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-902.ana.u80	Senator Panizza, the Presidency authorizes you to deliver the written text of your speech.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-902.ana.u81	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-902.ana.u82	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-902.ana.u83	De Cristofaro (Misto-SI-SEL). Mr President, I would just like to say that we shall be voting in favour of motions for resolutions Nos 1 and 2, first signed by Senator Guerra, No 5, first signed by Senator De Petris, and No 6, first signed by Senator Montevecchi and will vote against all the others. [[Applause from the Misso-SI-SEL Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-902.ana.u84	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-902.ana.u85	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-902.ana.u86	Montevecchi (M5S). Mr President, we shall vote in favour of motion for a resolution No 1 (text 2), tabled by the Senators of the Article 1-MDP Group, because, in principle, the commitments which it calls on the Government are in the direction we want, both as regards the management of migratory flows, the overcoming of the so-called Dublin Regulation and the position of Turkey in this matter, and as regards the web tax, because we also call for a shared definition of tax initiatives for the so-called over the top, that is, the major operators, on the European Internet platforms, from an economic point of view. We shall abstain on the motion for a resolution No 2 tabled by the Senators of the Northern League Group, although on certain points, in the context of the commitments it proposes to the Government, we can agree. I am referring, in particular, to the need to reiterate a dry denial of any possibility, at the moment, of Turkey's accession to the European Union, given what is happening in that country in terms of the protection and guarantee of citizens' rights. We also agree on the need to effectively implement returns for those who have not been granted the right of international protection, and on the need to invoke, at European level, the adoption of policies that discourage strong initiatives against linguistic minorities and therefore also their conflicts. However, we do not agree, in principle, with the way in which other commitments are proposed, and that is why we shall abstain on the motion for a resolution tabled by the Lega Nord Group as a whole. We will also abstain on the motion for a resolution No 3, tabled by the Democratic Party Group, and on the commitments it makes to the Government. We absolutely do not agree, for example, with the commitment to the creation of permanent structured defence cooperation, particularly in the direction of promoting the arms industry, nor with the commitment to our eventual accession to the Eurocorpore and therefore to be part of an embryo of a common army. We do not agree with the promotion, at the moment, of a reflection on the role of Turkey in the direction of its accession to the European Community. We are also very sceptical about the smokiness with which they have drawn up other commitments to the Government, such as those concerning the management of migratory flows and the issue of web tax. These commitments, in our opinion, are smoky and inconsistent. The only point on which we could agree was the support of Milan's candidacy as the future seat of the European Medicines Agency (EMA). So we shall also abstain on motion for a resolution No 3. We shall vote against the motion for a resolution No 4 (text 2), tabled by the Senators of the ALA Group, because some of the commitments contained therein and specifically the second, in our view, are even grotesque. In the motion for a resolution tabled by Senator Barani and other Senators of his Group, we would in fact have the claim to interfere in certain dynamics involving the African political ruling class, potentially corrupted and therefore devoted to personal enrichment with the aid it receives from Europe, when we know that the African ruling classes over the years have been enriched mainly thanks to corruption, even of European origin. It's like saying that they don't have to accept the money some companies could offer him, in terms of corruption, in order to get contracts or other favors: we feel like a total absurdity. We should try to combat the phenomenon upstream, continue to give aid, for goodness sake, and watch over them, but we find this request quite absurd. [[Applause from Senator Endrizzi]] The other commitments of motion for a resolution No 4 also seem to us to be rather smoky. On the other hand, we shall vote in favour of motion for a resolution No 5 tabled by the Senators of the Italian Left, because we believe that the commitments which the Italian Left puts before the Government go largely in the direction of the commitments contained in our motion for a resolution, such as the adoption of certain tax measures against the major economic operators on digital platforms, in the sense of a revision of the Treaty of Dublin, as we also mean. There are also concerns about Brexit and commitments that are very similar to ours, such as to take great account of the problems of citizens and citizens living in their respective territories. We regret - if I have read correctly - that there is no commitment in our motion for a resolution to research, because we know that when we talk about Brexit, one of the very important aspects of negotiation is university and scientific research. We know that the United Kingdom, and in particular the United Kingdom, receive a great deal of funding from the European Union in this regard, because their universities are among the most desirable in Europe, and so there is a great deal of concern in the world of research on the free movement of researchers and on the projects that have been born and are moving forward in cooperation between European universities - so not only Italians - and English universities. Finally, on motion for a resolution No 7, which was first signed by Senator Paolo Romani, we will vote for the same reasons for abstaining on the motions for resolutions tabled by other political parties. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-902.ana.u87	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-902.ana.u88	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-902.ana.u89	Gasparri (FI-PdL XVII). Mr President, to the representatives of the Government we express our regret at the negative assessment made on the motion for a resolution No 7, which we have presented in a comprehensive and comprehensive recapitulation of all the main issues on the table. Moreover, even the spirit with which our leader Romani introduced the debate today is that of a political force that has contributed, although not even recognized in the intervention - alas - of the President of the Council Gentiloni Silveri, decisive in the turning point on immigration. It has been recalled and we repeat it: the cognitive investigation - we also acknowledge Senator Latorre of having shared the preparation and the outcome - with the hearings of magistrates and NGOs has shown that the role of NGOs has been ambiguous and substantial aiding to the activities of the scafisti. Then there was the famous regulation that we voted unanimously - an exceptional act in the history of this legislature - in the Defence Commission, and also discussed in this House, which was the basis of the actions of the Government that led to a significant reduction in landings, which in recent days are recovering because of the confusion that has arisen and the situation that concerns Tunisia. Our motion for a resolution, which we will of course vote on, together with that of the Group of the North Lega (the others we will not vote on), also calls, undersecretary Gozi, for a series of duties: for example, the issue of sanctions against Russia, which is a choice that is damaging Italy and the European economy at a time when Russia's role, in order to contain the offensive of fundamentalist terrorism, has been very important, and this should push even more to resume full relations. In our motion for a resolution we recalled the risk of the arrival of foreign fighters, the need for a single European voice, and I do not repeat what President Romans said today about the ambiguous role of other European countries and the Italian weakness in demanding convergence on our efforts. As far as other issues are concerned, we really want to move on to concrete decisions on the web tax. There is a tax impunity for some realities of the giants of the network, the so-called over the top, which is now intolerable and which has been evident also in recent months, creating an inequality compared to situations of intolerable tax pressures on businesses, artisans and commercial activities. We also want to claim to the government representatives the decisive role, not that our political side but that the European institutions are playing on some sensitive issues: I am thinking of the NPLs (which today have another name), of banking suffering. The unfair, wrong, vexatory action against our banks that some second- row members of the ECB have taken, today is also faced with a democratic initiative of the European Parliament and the President of the European Parliament Antonio Tajani; an initiative that we hope fills the void of our Government. Where was our government when decisions were taken by the ECB that, if they were implemented, would stifle our businesses, the possibility of providing credit? We therefore want to demand our action and our position, and hope that the Italian Government will support the action that President Tajani has taken in the European Parliament in his institutional and not in part; initiatives on which we see the Government very hesitant and stuttering. Finally, we hope, despite your hostile attitude towards our motion for a resolution, that the support for the EMA to be based in Italy will be sincere. Our Group, in particular President Romani and Senator Mandelli, has taken numerous initiatives so that Italy can have this opportunity, which would be of great importance not only in terms of the moral signal, but also of the economic significance, of the research that this localization would have in the city of Milan. Finally, today we also referred to the issue of ius soli and citizenship. I do not repeat what has been said, but we hope that we will avoid what is a wrong choice even in the European context. The issue of citizenship, in fact, how can we not discuss it at European level? What is the point of an Italian escape with a possible demagogic law, when we are in the time of Schengen and in the time of free movement? On these issues of immigration and citizenship I would like to remind you that President Casini (perhaps because he is dealing with banks today and no longer with the Foreign Affairs Commission) said that in recent months there has been the greatest decline in republican history of the arrival of immigrants. The reduction of arrivals is due to the application of the OGN Regulation, which was born here, in the Defence Commission of Palazzo Madama, and not for an initiative of the Government. The government has shared it and we acknowledge it to the various ministers, starting with the Minister of the Interior who has dealt with it. The most striking decline, however, in republican history, President Casini, occurred in the years of the center-right governments led by Berlusconi. Then other European countries or Americans wanted wrong wars and things turned out the way they did. We need to discuss citizenship, yes, but at European level, because an Italian escape would be disastrous. We invite you not to do this: not only because you probably do not have the numbers in this House, but because you do not have them in the country either, where a demagogic choice of that type would become the reason for a major repealing referendum and would be the main topic of the election campaign. Therefore, we have a double chance of victory: winning the political battle, avoiding Italian laws but with a European reflection, which connects to the issues we are discussing today; or, if you want to move forward with confidence, the country would give you the answer in the ballot boxes of the elections and democratic initiatives to repeal wrong laws. We are sorry that today the Government did not want to take up so many points that we have offered for reflection. Therefore, in rejecting the other positions and in criticizing the government's inadequate and inadequate immigration policy, the European security front, the protection front, the NPLs in the prerogatives of our economy, we are vindicting our positions and we are going to vote for our motion for a resolution. [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-902.ana.u90	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-902.ana.u91	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-902.ana.u92	Martini (PD). Mr President, we shall be voting in favour of motion for a resolution No 3, signed by Senators Zanda, Bianconi and Zeller, and others who have received the support of the Government because they have the objective of supporting and strengthening the overall action of the Commission on the European and international scene also at this European Council. On the various, important and crucial issues that will be on the agenda tomorrow and the day after tomorrow have been reached in recent times of the first significant results, thanks also to the strong and constant Italian initiative. Today it is a question of insisting, of not giving up the grip and of pushing the situation and the realization even further forward. Migration needs to be continued with commitment to qualifying Europe's role without leaving countries alone on the front line and overcoming the Dublin Regulation towards a common asylum system and the creation of a European Asylum Office. The aim is to allocate more resources for the integration of migrants accepted in Europe, including through the refinancing of the EU trust fund and agreements with African countries. On the digital front, we need to continue with the priorities set out in Tallinn, in particular the creation of European platforms for small and medium-sized enterprises, so that a shared proposal on the web tax can be presented as soon as possible, on which there is the full agreement of our Group. On the question of defence, it is necessary to follow up the project PESCO, in order not to disperse the industrial heritage in the field of defence of our country and to support the demand that Italy become an effective member of the Eurocorpore, since we are the country most exposed to Africa and the Middle East, and to realize concretely a European anti-terrorism proxy. They're all important goals. Finally, it is right, as President Gentiloni Silveri said, that Brexit should continue to have constructive relations with the United Kingdom, but we need great firmness on the objectives of the transition, particularly for our citizens. All these commitments recall the need for stronger, coordinated and united action in Europe. There will be no effective action on migration, digital, defence or other without a common vision and choral commitment, without ever more Community and less fragmented institutions, policies and instruments. Italy has a strong role to play because it is a founding country, has prestige and responsibility and because it is also in its main interest. We must do so at a very delicate time, but also as a bearer of new opportunities. Hope and criticality. The hopes are those of a less ephemeral recovery perhaps than we thought, which gives impetus to employment and social cohesion, while the hopes are also those of new commitments, marked in particular in recent times by the speeches of Juncker and Macron, which show that there is beginning to be a European debate of greater importance, in which we too participate and must continue to participate. There are also the criticalities and tensions, if we put together the events of Catalonia (for which we hope a constructive dialogue, which saves the unity of the country and strengthens the autonomy of Catalonia itself, avoiding triggering a disintegration process that would be negative for Europe), the elections in Germany and Austria, which see the growth of anti-European forces and the harshness of the negotiations on Brexit, about which Michel Barnier, the chief negotiator for Europe, spoke in the Senate. These difficulties tell of the distance that still separates Europe, its image and its initiative from popular sentiment. But it is precisely in these critical steps that we must be able to re-launch and look forward. I believe that we must accept the invitation that President Gentiloni Silveri made both this morning and this afternoon in the Senate so that this is the stage not of missed opportunities, but of the commitments made consistently. Mr President, I would like to conclude by saying that it is right and necessary to criticise Europe for its weaknesses and shortcomings, as well as for its bureaucracy and selfishness, but it is even more just, necessary and urgent to work to rebuild and become an active part of the process of consolidation and renewal of the Union. Being an active player in Italy helps Europe and counters the risks of collapse and retreat - and this is already an important asset for all of us - and, moreover, strengthens our role as a person who believes in Europe and wants it firmly, even if on a more democratic, effective and strategic basis. The Government's commitment to the themes of the European Council and the revival of Europe serves Italy and all of us. Outside this picture, we won't find the answers to our problems. For this reason, I declare the Democratic Party Group's vote in favour of the motions for resolutions which support and strengthen the government's action. [[Applause from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-902.ana.u93	Before voting, I warn you that, in line with established practice, motions for resolutions will be put to the vote in the order of presentation. We shall now proceed to the vote on motion for a resolution No 1 (text 2). Verification of SANTANGELO (M5S) quorum. We're asking for a quorum check. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators, by electronic procedure. (The request is supported). I therefore call on the senators to make their presence known by electronic means. (Follows the quorum check.) The Senate has a quorum. Resumption of the debate on communications by the President-in-Office of the Council of Ministers. I put to the vote motion for a resolution No 1 (text 2), tabled by Senator Guerra and other senators. It's approved. We shall now proceed to the vote on motion for a resolution No 2. SANTANGELO (M5S). We call for the vote to be taken by simultaneous ballot by electronic means. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of motion for resolution No 2, tabled by Senator Centinario and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the vote on motion for a resolution No 3. SANTANGELO (M5S). We call for the vote to be taken by simultaneous ballot by electronic means. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of motion for a resolution No 3, tabled by Senators Zanda, Bianconi and Zeller. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the vote on motion for a resolution No 4 (text 2). SANTANGELO (M5S). We call for the vote to be taken by simultaneous ballot by electronic means. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of motion for a resolution No 4 (text 2), tabled by Senator Barani and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the vote on motion for a resolution No 5. SANTANGELO (M5S). We call for the vote to be taken by simultaneous ballot by electronic means. [[Comments from the PD Group]] I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I call on Senator De Petris and other senators to vote on the motion for a resolution No 5 by a simultaneous ballot. The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the vote on motion for a resolution No 6. SANTANGELO (M5S). Mr President, since the request for electronic voting arouses the laughter of many, we kindly ask, for you fools too, for the vote to be taken by simultaneous ballot by electronic procedure. [[Comments from the PD Group]] PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of motion for a resolution No 6 tabled by Senator Montevecchi and other senators (continued the vote). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the vote on motion for a resolution No 7. SANTANGELO (M5S). We call for the vote to be taken by simultaneous ballot by electronic means. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of motion for resolution No 7, tabled by Senator Romani Paolo and other senators (continued the vote). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B).
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-902.ana.u94	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-902.ana.u95	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-902.ana.u96	Montevecchi (M5S). Mr President, what happened a few days ago? At the Higher Institute for Artistic Industries (ISIA) in Faenza, it happened that the chairman of the evaluator's commission for a teaching post for cultural anthropology was the winner of the ban for the assignment of that teaching post. Then it is clear that one of the competitors, Dr. Alessandra Castellani, appealed against the result of this ranking, because it is clear that something was wrong. It is not possible that the chairman of the evaluator's commission is also the same as the chairman of the evaluator's commission; there is a very slight conflict of interest. But these very slight conflicts of interest are not actually sporadic and are not even isolated cases. Often, since the beginning of the legislature, there has been talk of high artistic and musical formation, of academies of fine arts or places such as ISIA, which is a flagship for Faenza, for Emilia-Romagna and also for Italy as a whole, in theory, because there have been formed great artists and great ceramists. We know, however, that this sector has for years been concentrated in the most total anarchy; within it there are not only conflicts of interest, but also waste of public money due, for example, to the activation of unnecessary courses; there are conflicts of interest linked, for example, to the administration of Italian courses for Chinese students; there are problems in the disposal of substances that are used in the engraving laboratories, which are particular and should be disposed of in appropriate locations, with appropriate practices; there are cases of teachers who do not pass the badge when they should and cases of directors of these institutions that probably "abuse" their prerogatives. Minister Fedeli said that she would activate controls and, at the moment, clearly the ranking was suspended. We re-launch the appeal to the Minister Faithful that the controls be laid down, not only in the ISIA, but also in the academies of fine arts and in all institutions of high education; he will discover beautiful things, he will discover how right we were. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-902.ana.u97	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-902.ana.u98	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-902.ana.u99	Mr Paglini (M5S). Mr President, 268 people; President, 268! There are so many, almost as many here in this House when it is full. Here, imagine that within a few seconds all these people are dying, drowning. That's a lot. This is what happened on October 11, 2013, when a boat loaded with men, women and children fleeing an obscene war in Syria fell south of Lampedusa. About 60 of them were very dangerous children. And this comparison, if nothing else, will prevent us, will prevent you from turning your head on the other side. The pain of family members must be slow. Numerous evidence accuses senior Navy officers and, since any doubt must be raised by the Navy institution, I have filed a question with the various Ministries, after the further and decisive evidence emerged. A detailed question which asks what Minister Pinotti intends to do to remove any shadow of doubt. We ask you to take action to obtain the documents and records kept by the Maltese authorities and the ship Libra, ship that day several times called by radio on channel 16 of marine rescue from the military aircraft of the Maltese armed forces. Yet, the pilot stated that he saw both the ship Libra and the boat, since they were close, but that the Italian military ship did not respond. The Libra will arrive only at 6 p.m., because from Rome, as the recordings show, she was even ordered to depart from the scene. We ask Minister Pinotti what he intends to do with those who made her report the forgery in the Chamber on 17 May 2017, since all the communications, photos and videos that document that tragedy were already in the public domain. What you intend to do about the Chief of Staff of the Navy, Admiral Girardelli, who said two days ago: "We are serene (...) sure that we have done our duty anyway." We ask you, above all, to avoid mocking the intelligence of Italians, taking refuge behind the laughable excuse that the failure to rescue the boat is due to bureaucratic discussions, as you said the day before yesterday. Sorry laughable, because there was no contrast, opposition or dialectic between Italians and Maltese, as the recordings show. The fact is simple: there was a request for help from the boat, through Dr. Jammo, who at 12:39 am clearly communicated the situation of imminent danger in which they were located, communicated the coordinates and that on board there were children wounded and said they were sinking. The situation was clear right away. As a result we have that the nearest ship, the Navy Libra ship that could have saved everyone in thirty, forty minutes, lets the boat turn over and arrive at the scene of the disaster at 18, when now 268 people were dead. I remember: 60 children, Mr President, 60 children. Do we have to say anything else? President, last Saturday, I previewed the documentary film "One destiny," which journalist Fabrizio Gatti made after four years of investigation. It is a clear and chilling document. The ice that shaken my veins that night is the same as the one that must act in the name of justice and truth. In order that this tragedy is not archived - and the risk is very high - everyone must correspond with dignity and honor to the responsibilities of his own role. The institutions are being defended, President, not the people. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-902.ana.u100	The motions, questions and questions received by the Presidency will be published in Annex B to today's report.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-902.ana.u101	The Senate will meet again in public session tomorrow, Thursday 19 October, at 9.30 a.m., with the following agenda: (See agenda) The sitting was closed at 7.55 p.m.
