ParlaMint-IT_2017-09-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-876.ana.u1	The sitting was opened at 16.30 a.m. The Minutes shall be read. Mr Amati, secretary, read the Minutes of the afternoon sitting of the previous day. PRESIDENT. - The debate is Since there were no comments, the Minutes were approved.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-09-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-876.ana.u2	The list of senators on leave and absent on assignment received from the Senate, as well as further communications to the Assembly, will be published in Annex B to today's Minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-09-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-876.ana.u3	The next item is the holding of questions. The first question will be asked on the resignation of the guarantor of the prisoners of Sondrio prison. The representative of the Government may answer this question.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-09-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-876.ana.u4	Madam President, with the inspection act under discussion, news was requested about the events that led, in March last year, the guarantor of the rights of the persons detained in Sondrio to resign following misunderstandings arose with the director of the surrounding house of the capital, together with the initiatives taken to resolve the further problems envisaged. In reporting on the case, the Department of the penitentiary administration has communicated that the regional provision, learned the news of the resignation, has immediately intervened urging a recomposition of the relations between the direction of the surrounding house and the guarantor of the rights of the prisoners, starting an administrative inspection at the penitentiary institution. On the basis of the findings of the inspection, the regional authority has provided the management with certain general requirements and, in particular, to harmonize the relationship with the guarantors of the limited persons of freedom: in this respect, it has prescribed the immediate withdrawal of the order of service - severely contested by the resigning guarantor - with which the management had ordered the requests for talks with the guarantor to be specifically motivated by the prisoner. In the context of the initiatives taken, the provider also urged the management of the surrounding house of Sondrio to take action against the municipal administration for the conclusion of a protocol regulating in detail the conduct of the autonomous activity of the guarantor. In addition to the initiatives taken in the immediacy, the activity of verification and impulse has led to the achievement of positive results represented by the Department of the penitentiary administration. First of all, on October 28, 2016, Marina Martinelli, already volunteered at the surrounding house of Sondrio, was appointed guarantor for the rights of the prisoners instead of the previous resignation. In addition, a programme of treatment initiatives has been launched, which has facilitated the progressive overcoming of the critical issues that has crossed the institute in 2016. The improvement of relations with the outside has been accompanied by a significant increase in living conditions within the structure, also thanks to the inauguration of a new library and a new productive laboratory, resulting in an increase in cultural offer and job and training opportunities. In the same sense, the penitentiary administration has evidenced the full resumption of the activities of volunteering and participation of the associations in the organization of the activities trattamentali. The positive results highlighted have therefore allowed to overcome momentary difficulties in the life of the Institute of Sondrio, in the wake of the policies that have always characterized and inspired the action of the Ministry in these years. In the awareness of the importance of the conditions of the prison structures for the well-being of those who are restricted there and work there, I point out that the theme has seen the Dicastery engaged in every necessary and useful initiative to achieve the aforementioned objective. These are purposes to which implementation certainly contributes, among other initiatives, the role of the national guarantor of the rights of persons held or deprived of personal freedom, established by the decree of the President of the Republic of 1 February 2016 and the decree of the President of the Republic of 3 March 2016. On the organizational side, in implementation of the regulation of reorganization of the Ministry, the ministerial decrees with which the total reorganization of the offices of non-general management level, at the Department of the penitentiary administration, both at central and peripheral level, has been adopted, to give impulse in terms of efficiency to the administrative action and criteria and modalities of assignment of the functions to the penitentiary managers by the competent general direction of the staff of the Department of the penitentiary administration (DAP) have been established. Thanks to an intense and constant political commitment, articulated in contextual interventions of normative and organizational character, of penitentiary building and of personnel policies, the total prison conditions, in the local as well as at the national level, have definitely improved. The action taken so far, in the wake of the experience of the General States of Criminal Enforcement, will be further reinforced by the measures being taken in the context of the implementation of the delegation for the reform of the penitentiary order, which will allow the introduction of more appropriate tools to ensure a genuine recovery and resocialising function, in a constitutionally oriented way to criminal execution. The positive and prompt solution of the incident at the surrounding house of Sondrio represents a manifestation of consistency of administrative action with respect to the political guidelines dictated in this delicate and fundamental sector.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-09-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-876.ana.u5	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-09-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-876.ana.u6	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-09-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-876.ana.u7	DEL BARBA (PD). Madam President, I would like to thank Mrs Subsecretaria for her answer, which I consider to be comprehensive and of which I am immediately satisfied, starting with the final outcome of the Government's intervention, and throughout the penitentiary administration, which has remedied a situation which was very critical and problematic. I am particularly pleased because it was an organic intervention of the public administration, central, regional and local levels, and because although the only painful note could be given by the timing and distance of today's response to my act of inspection union of 7 April 2016, which might suggest that there has been an excessive delay, in fact, the complexity of the problem took time and, rightly, caution them. I can therefore define the intervention as a whole as a matter of urgency, although the response may appear to be delayed and, as far as we have achieved it, even balanced; in fact, it has been reflected in the complaints made by the guarantor of the rights of the persons detained, who have then also found an effective response in the administrative inspection - which we now learn has been carried out - and through the requirements that have been extended at regional level. It seems to me that this is an example, as I said, of organicity, timeliness and balance, but above all of efficiency. Sorry that at the public level only today you can know how positive it has been done. Probably this delay in time was necessary for the sensitivity and confidentiality with which certain investigations must be carried out, so that they could be carried out with the necessary scrupulousness. I believe that if the government's action is still to be integrated, perhaps the requirements referred to in its response could be made public so that, in addition to the government's authoritative opinion on the full satisfaction that these prescriptions have found within the prison administration, there can also be a public audit, as well as the new guarantor and the municipal administration itself that is mentioned by the prescriptions that have been indicated. I agree with the view that this matter, which has been successfully resolved, contributes positively to teaching at national level about the importance of the figure of the guarantor of the rights of prisoners. In this case, we have proof of how the interaction between the prison administration and the guarantor can lead to significant improvements. Even what the government has announced seems to me to be very positive. At this point I would simply like to thank the guarantor, who allowed this to emerge with his letter of resignation and the denunciation of what, from his point of view, was incorrect. Dr. Francesco Racchetti's resignation was not a formal but substantial act, useful not only to the prison administration, the surrounding house of Sondrio, but, I believe, to our entire prison system.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-09-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-876.ana.u8	Following is the question 3-03430 on the equipment of firefighters. The representative of the Government may answer this question.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-09-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-876.ana.u9	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, before I go into the substance of the questions put by the interrogators, may I express my full gratitude to the women and men of the National Firefighters Corps. The very high level of their rescue device has been able to cope with the many situations of great complexity in the aftermath of the tragic seismic events that since 24 August 2016 have hit different areas of our country, ensuring and guaranteeing assistance to the population with outstanding technical and professional expertise. To the rescue of people in the immediacy of events are added the thousands of operations carried out for the safety of public and private property or for the recovery of the property of damaged houses and commercial activities. Innumerable were also the surveys, the checks of stability and the demolitions of the dangerous buildings; multiple interventions for the defense and recovery of historical, architectural and cultural assets made in collaboration with the Ministry of Cultural Heritage and Activities and Tourism. With more precise reference to the questions asked in the act of inspection union, and in particular to the alleged inadequacy of the winter equipment used by the Fire Departments, I point out that the National Corps uses clothing designed to ensure adequate protection of the operator's physical integrity and good thermal insulation, in accordance with current Community regulations and directives. Coming now to the question of rescue vehicles, the National Firefighter Corps park has in fact been affected in recent years by a progressive ageing phenomenon, due to the known lack of funds linked to the unfavourable economic situation. However, in this legislature normative interventions have been envisaged that have allowed the start by the administration of the inside of lines of financing in order to realize a plan of modernization of the operating means of the National Body and, therefore, to strengthen the structures and the emergency technical rescue device, in a perspective of modularity and interoperability with all the other agencies involved in the emergencies. In this regard, I limit myself to recalling the most recent measures: Decree-Law No 113 of 2016, which authorised the expenditure of 10 million euros for each of the years of the three-year period 2016-2018. For the year 2016, 100 Jeep cars have already been purchased, for a cost of €2,029,917,74 and 40,000 winter uniforms for a cost of € 7,528,376,00. The funds foreseen for 2017 and 2018 will be used for the renewal of personal protective equipment. Decree-Law No 189 of 2016 authorised the expenditure of 5 million euros for the year 2016 and 45 million euros for the current year. With the use of the aforementioned resources of 2016, together with ordinary funds, contracts have been concluded for the acquisition of eight autoscales, currently being set up, and ten trucks being allocated. Moreover, the resources allocated for 2017 will be used for the acquisition of 160 pumps, 16 vehicles for rescue in the historic centers, and finally ten autoscales. The 2017 budget law allocated €70 million for the current year and €180 million annually for the period 2018-2030 to be shared between the police and the National Corps according to a multiannual funding programme. In this regard, I would like to inform you that the decree of the President of the Council of Ministers for the division of the Fund is being drawn up and that a draft plan for the allocation of resources in question has been drawn up, which also takes into account the needs of the Department of Public Security. Finally, I signal the increase, equal to 5 million euros, of the resources destined to the purchase of vehicles in consideration of the exceptional operating effort of the National Corps supported this summer for the extinction of the forest fires. Finally, with regard to vocational training and training, I would remind you that the Ministry of the Interior regularly organizes training courses, updating, further training and training for the staff of the National Firefighters' Corps. These activities are carried out with specific instructors through organizational models that provide for timely planning, with a different articulation of the replacement working time and not additional to the mandatory duty shifts. I conclude by recalling that before the summer break the table for the opening of the negotiation phase has been installed, which will lead to the renewal of the negotiating agreement that will allow to give an important response to a sector and to a procedure that has been firm for eight years. I would add that this renewal comes after two other measures adopted by the Government relating to the so-called reorganization of careers and extraordinary recruitment, much expected by the fire department, although not exhaustive to cover all the gaps in staff.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-09-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-876.ana.u10	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-09-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-876.ana.u11	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-09-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-876.ana.u12	SCIBONA (M5S). Madam President, Mr Secretary-General, nine months to answer such a question is a long enough time, but if we go to see the statistics on the time taken to answer normal questions, it is a relatively short period. This is the first fact. Of course, the question was an excuse for highlighting the problem. It is well known that firefighters and other state bodies, such as Civil Protection, are always with water to the throat as far as instruments, means and anything else are concerned. I have heard important figures, but they are probably not enough, because I also have news of requisitions of means and endowments to the volunteer firefighters by the permanent staff. This, for goodness sake, in the perspective of safety is fine, but it means that even the permanent ones do not have and continue to have no means and devices to operate. I would not like this policy of indiscriminate cuts to be entirely focused on removing burdens on the state to ensure that it is managed only at the level of voluntary work. Of course, it cannot be expected that the state will have high numbers of professional staff to wait - hopefully never - for a catastrophe or something else, but it is equally obvious that there must be a very well-equipped professional base that can immediately enter into action in the event of an emergency, accident or fire. It seems to me that, compared to what we continue to hear from firefighters or other bodies, in terms of complaints and deficiencies, the journey is not the right path. The state should absolutely reverse the course, increase the appropriations and ensure that the bodies called upon to intervene in an emergency are much better equipped, that they are alternated with a body of volunteers in the event of a major disaster, but that in the first instance they can work best with what they have.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-09-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-876.ana.u13	Following is the question 3-03942 on initiatives in favour of the National Firefighter Corps. The representative of the Government may answer this question.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-09-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-876.ana.u14	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, with the question on the agenda, Senator Bisinella, together with others, asks to know what initiatives are being taken to strengthen the staff, modernise the means and equipment of the National Firefighters' Corps in order to make more efficient the emergency relief system, particularly committed during these summer months for the emergency fire. It also asks to know the timing for the activation of the fund provided for by the 2017 Budget Law, to be allocated, among other things, to the implementation of the instrumental resources available to the Body and if it is possible to provide for the extension, to 31 December 2018, of the ranking of the public competition for 814 firefighters. I would like to point out in advance that the framework law on forest fires of 21 November 2000, No 353, gives the Regions and the Autonomous Provinces the task of planning and implementing the prevention and active fight against forest fires through the approval of an annual regional plan for the planning of related activities. In this regulatory context, the reform introduced by Legislative Decree No. 177 of 2016, which provided for a share of the functions carried out by the Forestry Corps, with the related human and instrumental resources, transferred to the Carabinieri's Arm and part of the National Firefighters' Corps. The new regulatory framework, however, has not changed the allocation of powers in the field of forecasting, prevention and active fight against forest fires which the above-mentioned framework law assigns to the regions. Indeed, the available data on recent activities of state competence, for the active action in the fight against forest fires - data including the number of aircraft used in these activities - show that the above-mentioned reform did not in any way affect the functionality and effectiveness of fire-fighting interventions or, even less, the availability of the means. Coming therefore to the questions posed by the questioner in relation to the deficiencies of staff of the National Corps of Firefighters, I represent first of all that the administration of the Interior, although in the presence of repeated maneuvers of containment of the public expenditure connected to the difficult financial economic situation of the Country, has dedicated a particular attention to the reclamation of the organic endowments of the Body, both with legislative initiatives of increase of the theoretical staff, of approximately 2,500 units, and with the strengthening of the effective presences in the territorial structures. These decisions made it possible to hire 848 firemen recently, 398 of whom were employed on 5 June, while the remaining 450, reduced by three renunciation units, were assigned to the offices of service on 7 August. The Administration is also carrying out a competition procedure for the recruitment of 250 firefighters, which is expected to be terminated by the end of the year. The new recruitments in addition to reducing the lack of staff, currently equal, on the whole, to 3,314 units out of a total of 37,481, will allow to affect the average age of the staff in service, that it risks to become a serious critical operating plan. I would also remind you that under the 2017 Budget Act, a special Fund has been set up to finance a number of public employment institutions, including the staff of the National Firefighters' Corps. With the distribution of this Fund, which took place with a decree of the President of the Council of Ministers of 27 February, 119 million euros were allocated for the year 2017 and 153 million euros from the year 2018, to recruitment of permanent staff, in addition to the assumptions provided for in current legislation. These recruitments will concern state administrations, including police bodies and the National Firefighters Corps. I would point out that for the extraordinary recruitment of the National Corps 16 million euros have been allocated that will allow the assumption of 400 units. I also inform you that by the date of next 15 December another 301 units of firefighters will be hired to cover the turnover for the year 2016. As for the question of the modernization of the instrumental resources, it must be pointed out that the criticalities relative to the conditions and the average age of the means and equipment supplied to the Body are affected by the lacked investments of the past years. However, the Government's attention to the need to modernise the means available to firefighters has never failed. Just referring to the most recent normative interventions, I recall, in addition to the aforementioned 2017 budget law, Decree-Law No. 189 of 17 October 2016, with urgent interventions in favour of the populations affected by the seismic events of 2016, which provided for the total allocation of 50 million euros (five for 2016 and 45 for 2017) for the operational means of fire brigades. With the use of the aforementioned resources for 2016, together with ordinary funds, contracts have been concluded for the acquisition of eight autoscales and 10 trucks. Last but not least, the increase, equal to five million euros, of the resources destined to the purchase of vehicles in consideration of the exceptional operating effort of the Body supported this summer. With regard, however, to the timing of the allocation of the Fund provided for by the 2017 Budget Act, for the purchase and modernisation of the instrumental means in use both to the police forces and to the National Firefighters' Corps, I inform you that the decree of the President of the Council of Ministers for the subdivision of the said fund is being drawn up; in this regard, the competent Departments of the internal administration have already prepared a draft plan for the allocation of resources in question. Finally, I come to the last question concerning the extension to 31 December 2018 of the ranking of personnel suitable for the contest to 814 firefighter posts, banned in 2008. As is well known, this ranking has been extended several times and, last, until 31 December 2017. Due to the recruitments made over the years, the ranking of the competition has already seen a sliding of about 4,500 suitable, which are currently reduced to about 3,100 people. On the possibility of a further extension, I would remind you that the Government, on 2 August last, gave its favourable opinion when approving a specific resolution on the matter in the First Commission to the House.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-09-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-876.ana.u15	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-09-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-876.ana.u16	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-09-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-876.ana.u17	Bisinella (Misto-Fare!). I would like to thank the Secretary for his answer, which is certainly very detailed, but I am partly satisfied with it. I certainly appreciate the interventions planned to increase the funds for the acquisition of new means and for the modernization of the instrumental equipment, which was recognized as necessary taking into account the vetusity of the means provided to the staff (cars and trucks), which is on average fifteen to sixteen years all over the national territory, and also in the light of the last interventions in the summer season, which is now being concluded: only in June and July 2017 more than 45,000 interventions have been recorded throughout the national territory compared to the 24,000 of 2016. It was clear, therefore, that urgent action was needed. From this point of view, therefore, I welcome the efforts being made, but I recall that they are part of a serious deficit which concerns not only the supply of equipment and equipment, but also a serious shortage of staff which the National Firefighters' Corps is still serving. I am pleased to know that new procedures are under way for the recruitment of additional staff and I also welcome the fact that the Government has given an affirmative response to this need for further extension of the competition that was mentioned in my question which, I recall, has also been signed by other colleagues; which indicates how much, from several political parties, is felt the need to support the National Firefighters' Corps. I appreciate the words of thanks that the Undersecretary has addressed on behalf of the Ministry for the admirable work that all the staff of the fire department constantly carries out to protect all citizens in the face of every emergency situation that is being created. I join in the thanks, recalling the wonderful spirit of self-denial and service that they always demonstrate. However, I should like to point out, and for this reason I am only partially satisfied with the answer, that following the recent changes which have foreseen the downsizing and suppression of the Forestry Corps, while on the one hand there has been a transfer of powers and functions to the Fire Departments in relation to the fight against forest fires and the shut down by air, on the other hand, in a way that is clearly not proportional to these new competences, sufficient staff units have not been allocated, given that a little less than 400 units have been added. I therefore hope that the intention to provide for it in the future will be effective. I would also remind you that there are other serious shortcomings that the National Corps has always highlighted, such as those relating to the inequality of economic treatment that unfortunately do not apply to the other bodies that deal with public security and public aid. Therefore, I hope that the technical tables that have been set up - now a long matter, I know that because they have been talking about it for more years - to try to remedy these issues, will also be carried out quickly in the face of the emerging situations that unfortunately always occur calling into question the aforementioned national body that is objectively in conditions of great difficulty; perhaps we could intervene with the new budget law that we are going to approve by the end of the year. With regard to the criteria for allocating the funds that last year's budget law provided - the 180 million for the period from 2018 and beyond - I hope that they will be issued in very fast times and that these results can be taken into account. In conclusion, I hope that the Ministry will really take into account the real needs of the National Corps which do not, and I would like to stress this, apply only to the modernization of the means but to a general situation of real objective needs for aid and support. I repeat, it is a national body which unfortunately, to date, compared to other police forces, which are also distracted, still faces enormous differences. Our movement - DO! with Tosi - he will always be careful to pursue these demands and I hope that there will be a willingness to share and accept new demands and perhaps to examine together new possibilities with the budgetary law that we are going to face in Parliament.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-09-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-876.ana.u18	I note that Senator Orellana has informed the Presidency that he wants to turn the question 3-03326 into a written question which will take the number 4-08047.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-09-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-876.ana.u19	Mr President, the National School of Administration (SNA), which is the central point of the single system of public recruitment and training, is responsible for selecting, recruiting and training officials and managers with a view to improving the efficiency and quality of our country's public administrations. Its training activity, therefore, concerns the organisation of educational paths which include the technical analysis of current and ongoing legislation, in order to allow the managers and officials concerned to develop and enhance their analytical skills and the capacity to deepen. In the framework of these institutional activities, a number of seminars on constitutional and administrative reforms were organised in 2016 in line with the didactic programming that has included courses in this area for some years. I would point out that I agree with the honourable Member's assessment of the comment that SNA itself gave in the presentation of the course with respect to constitutional reform. What is expressed is a judgment that has nothing to do with the training activity that consists, instead, of technical topics and contents. I would add that, at the time that I and the Minister for Simplification and Public Administration became aware of this incident, we expressed all our concerns to the SNA Commissioner at the time. Compared to the teachers invited to lecture, I can say that they were chosen from among professors and experts of undisputed scientific value and were called as persons of proven and specific competence. Compared to the procedure to which the professor referred in this question was referred, I would wait for the same procedure to be concluded before issuing assessments or - worse - sentences of conviction in this House. With regard to the costs incurred by the SNA, it should be noted that these teachers have taken their lessons as temporary teachers of the School or free of charge. As a result, no specific charges have been imposed on the School in the decrees approving the initiatives in question. Finally, it is pointed out that, as illustrated in the school's training offer, it is customary to organize seminars for the technical analysis of legislation in itinere, proving of particular interest the training process of the laws as such. In this particular case, the deepening of the complex parliamentary approval process of a constitutional reform bill could certainly be an important opportunity to study in order to develop the skills of civil servants and public leaders.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-09-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-876.ana.u20	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-09-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-876.ana.u21	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-09-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-876.ana.u22	SIMONI (Mist). Mr Secretary, I have listened carefully to your reply and I can only express my dissatisfaction with what you have said. It is a fact that these courses have been organized and regularly held, just as it is a fact that they have been spent (she says that they have taken place free of charge, we do not know well), without any plausible reason, the taxpayers' money, also according to the referendum outcome that saw the votes in favour of the no prevail clearly. The then minister for simplification and public administration, Mrs Marianna Madia, without any political modesty or institutional respect, promoted the holding of these courses well before the eventual referendum, if in favour of yes, made them necessary. Therefore, it is not absurd to think that all this was wanted for the sole purpose of setting up a referendary campaign in favour of the yes, making it bear the costs to the community, in order to subjugate to the unique thought of the then Renzi Government, also the public leadership, recipient of that training path. Any justification she may propose to this House, in the face of this, is therefore to be considered as an accomplice to those who have behaved clearly contrary to their institutional duty. And the current government, undoubtedly the clone of the previous one, considered it its duty to reward Mr Madia by reconfirming it to the Ministry for Simplification and Public Administration. It seems to me that there is nothing else to add.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-09-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-876.ana.u23	Question Time on the agenda is thus over.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-09-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-876.ana.u24	The motions, questions and questions received by the Presidency will be published in Annex B to today's report.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-09-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-876.ana.u25	The Senate will meet again in two public sessions on Tuesday 19 September, the first at 11 a.m. and the second at 4.30 p.m., with the following agenda: (See agenda) The sitting was closed at 5.10 p.m.
