ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-919.ana.u1	The sitting is open (9:34 a.m.). The Minutes shall be read. Mr Frevezzi, Secretary, gave a reading of the Minutes of the sitting of the previous day. PRESIDENT. - The debate is Since there were no comments, the Minutes were approved.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-919.ana.u2	The list of senators on leave and absent on assignment received from the Senate, as well as further communications to the Assembly, will be published in Annex B to today's Minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-919.ana.u3	I would warn you that qualified votes can be taken in the course of today's sitting by electronic means. Therefore, from this moment on, the period of 20 minutes from the notice provided for in Article 119 (1) of the Regulation (9:36 a.m.).
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-919.ana.u4	The next item is the continuation of the debate on document II, No 38. I recall that the debate took place at yesterday's sitting. I call the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-919.ana.u5	Madam President, I did not speak at the time of the report because I believe that the report is quite empty on certain issues. If, in fact, it makes sense for the rapporteur to intervene by knowing the subject, that is, by means of an intervention by an arm, it makes little sense, in my opinion, to have a written report, perhaps to take half an hour to read it, when it is sufficient to deliver it. On the other hand, I would like to say a few words in reply, thanking those who have spoken and showing that they know the content of the reform, those who have appreciated certain passages and also those who have criticized the reform itself. (The sitting was suspended at 9 a.m. and resumed at 9 a.m.) (The sitting was suspended at 9 a.m. and resumed at 9 a.m.) I do not, however, thank those who have spoken, showing that they have not read, not so much my report, but not even the reform. I do not thank them, because a moment as important as the debate on a reform of the Rules of Procedure cannot become the seat of the demands of senators expelled by a movement, and there have been so many. A reform is not good if the 5 Star Movement votes against and it is not bad if the 5 Star Movement votes in favour. We enter the contents and do not, for the umpteenth time, make a struggle intestine around a reform. On the subject of the speeches, I have heard criticisms of the impossibility contained in the reform of the constitution of groups in the course of the legislature by senators who are not representatives of a single party who came to the elections. I believe that this is one of the fundamental steps of the reform. I am referring, in other words, to the contrast to transformism, which was the evil of this legislature and of those which preceded it. If 600 Members and senators have changed their coats, we are faced with a pathology that we must correct, so this is a positive and not a negative aspect. This is completely different from the fact - and we will also discuss it here - that it is possible or not, even for formations that have not reached the ten members, to set up a parliamentary group if they had presented themselves with the same electoral symbol at the political elections; but there will be amendments and we will discuss this. In the same way, I do not understand the criticisms that have been made about the withdrawal of the Vice-Presidents, the Secretaries of the House and the members of the Bureau of the Commissions, if one of those elected in that Chamber were to change the party. I think we should do an act of honesty: does each of us really think that we are elected? Going to see how many preferences you take when you are elected with the system of preferences and how many direct votes on the person with the single nominations, you must automatically realize - it is the mathematics that says it - that each of us can bring some water to the mill, but you are elected on behalf of a party. After that, when you are elected and voted by that party, the parties that correspond to a coalition, to carry out a position of vice-president, of secretary of assembly, however an important position in the Assembly or in the Commission you have all the right - because the Constitution provides it, we are without mandate - to change our mind, but you must withdraw from the office for which you were elected. And as far as I am concerned - there is no reform, because the Constitution does not provide for it - honesty would want that if one changes his mind, as well as falling out of his office, he should also resign as a senator; but this - I repeat - we could not include him in the reform. As I find quite surprising the criticism of the fact that in the original text we had foreseen that at the stage of the explanation of the amendments or in the debate on the whole of the amendments, there was only one possibility of intervention per group. It was raised by Senator Palma, and shared by me, also the idea that there could be other than the presenter, the intervention of one per Group and, therefore, an amendment tabled by Senator Malan, reformulated, was accepted in this sense. However, when we reform, we need to reform that protects the opposition and minorities, we cannot write a reform that protects the minority within the same party. If, in fact, one of the amendments tabled in opposition to his Group, he voted in dissent from his Group, he always has the opportunity to change Group and then really do what he wants. However, it is not possible to regulate and regulate what constitutes dissent or minority within the same party. Even more surprised then are the criticisms and disputes that arose compared to an aspect that some consider marginal; even there was the fear that this aspect could take away the importance of the whole of the reform. I am referring to the subject of breast-feeding. I am very disconcerted about this point. I've been here since 2001, so I've seen a lot of legislation going through this Senate, and I greeted with joy, after fifteen years when I've never seen anything like it, to see senators with their belly - alive God! - to see children carried around in the stroller or in the stroller and to have foreseen a nursery. And do you have to scare me of the fact that a night session should provide for the possibility for a senator to continue to vote, to do her job and not to fail in Mom's duty? For God's sake! [[Applause from the LN-Aut and M5S Groups]] For me breast-feeding is the most beautiful thing in this world, then it will decide whether or not you want to do so here, but don't think or be surprised because someone has addressed this issue, it really hurt me. It hurts like a boy, I can imagine if the speech is seen on the other side. It is clear that the age of the Senate election does not play in favour of motherhood, but - alive God - all this is now being achieved. Since this is also the case in the European Parliament, I do not see why this cannot happen, without disturbing anyone, even in our Senate of the Republic. Reform. I call it reform because this is not a change in the Senate; more than a third of the articles of our Rules of Procedure have changed. If I'm not mistaken, how can the Offices confirm me, between articles and final norms, we are at the level of 64 articles, changing the philosophy of the functioning of the Senate. Why is he born now? Some say that there is no point in such a reform at the end of the parliamentary term. I say, if not now, when? We are almost exactly a year away from the rejection of the reform which would, in fact, have led to the abolition of the Senate. We are in an ideal situation, because we really need an astral crossroads for all the conditions to reform the Senate: we are at the end of the legislature, we have a new electoral law, we do not know the effects it will produce and we do not know the majorities and minorities that will be created within this structure. So precisely because we do not know who will or will not benefit from such a reform, this is the only time when such a comprehensive reform can be addressed. In fact, beyond everything, of those who will win the elections (if ever there will be a winner) and of those who will lead this country and this Senate, in the reform the role and powers of the majority, the role and power of the opposition and, above all, the weight and power of this institution are strengthened. The contents of the reform are those that come from a direct experience: my personal, the equally long one of President Zanda, the bicameral experience of Senator Bernini and the still short, but still pregnant, professional and institutional experience of Senator Buccarella. Personally, I've done seven legislatures, three Chambers, and four Senate. I've been the Vice President of the Commission, the President of the Commission in the House, three times the Vice President of the Senate and three times the Minister. As for the Regulations, I didn't settle for pressing the button. I really did it in the trenches all my series of legislation and I guarantee you that I studied the Rules of the House, the Rules of the Senate and the Constitution. I tried to take the best practices, together with my colleagues, and put them together so that there was the best of the Chamber of Deputies, the Senate and the experience of Government, because it is equally true that we live and work together with the Government. What are the limits of this reform? These are limits that arise (but I do not know whether it was an advantage or a disadvantage) from having used the technique of the restricted Committee. In this sense, I call for this instrument, which is widely used at the House of Deputies level and which is totally unused at the Senate level, to be re-proposed every time in the face of a major reform. The restricted Committee was a limit in the sense that, where there was no unanimity within it, we set aside the subject of dispute and, therefore, some changes that could perhaps have been made in a more daring way have been left aside. However, I believe that this is the reference method every time we face a reform of some importance. Sharing within this House and between political forces must always be sought and found, so that a reform is the reform of all and not just of the majority or some. The other limit is that we live in a bicameral system. The self-reform of the two branches of Parliament at the same time would have made it possible to achieve much higher objectives and targets: this was not achieved, not because of us, but because of the other branch of Parliament. The House of Deputies has begun to deal with the amendment of the Rules of Procedure much earlier than we have done and they have also made it a media fund. Fifteen days ago they lifted the white flag and gave up the reform of their Rules of Procedure. In view of this, I have a direct thought. Those who wanted to abolish the Senate and become the only legislative chamber in Parliament have not been able to self-form themselves. The Senate was able to do that. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group and Senator Bernini]] The Senate continues to exist with its own Rules of Procedure, because the Italian people have decided it. Our sense of responsibility and our duty lead us to show that we are a Chamber capable of working because, with all due respect for the Chamber of Deputies, the latter will play in Serie B next year and the Senate will play in Serie A. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group]] We turned an old, quiet sedan into a race car. If this branch of Parliament wants to approve this reform, as I hope, we will have a nice Ferrari and we will also have to hope that there will be someone who is able to lead it, because it takes an experienced driver to drive a Ferrari, otherwise the Ferrari crashes! [[Applause from the LN-Aut, FI-PdL XVII and PD Groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-919.ana.u6	We shall now proceed to the examination of the articles in the text proposed by the Committee on the Rules of Procedure and the amendments tabled to them, which I would ask the authors to explain.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-919.ana.u7	Mr President, I would like to explain the amendments to Rule 1. I have already mentioned Amendment 1.1 in the general debate.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-919.ana.u8	Senator, as we will illustrate everyone, if you have tabled amendments to other articles, you will illustrate them.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-919.ana.u9	Orellana (Aut (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT)-PSI-MAIE). Amendment 1.1 provides for a code of conduct for both the Senate and the House. I do not know what the rapporteur thinks of the amendment, but it contains two requests. The code of conduct is a request from both the OSCE and the Council of Europe, and the House has collected it. I'll give it to you. The amendment does not provide for a code of conduct, but the request is that a committee be set up to define a code of conduct. It was called on us in 2006 by the OSCE and, more recently, in the latest review presented in January of this year by the Council of Europe, and consists of asking all member countries to equip themselves precisely to give more credibility to parliamentary institutions vis-à-vis citizens. Abstentionism is increasing more and more; people no longer believe in politics and perhaps one of the aspects is that bodies like Parliament do not have an ethical code that can correspond to what any public employee is, for example, a ban on accepting gifts above a certain amount. You will certainly find many reasons to insert. Even the French National Assembly also provides a consultant to help individual Members understand whether certain situations conflict with interest or whether they are ethically reprehensible. In fact, the criticism that can be made about this amendment is that we all know these things, and that there is Article 54 of the Constitution that requires us to work with discipline and honor, but I believe that putting them in writing and not taking them for granted, giving guidance to those who sit between these benches, especially from the next legislature, is important and responds to a request that comes to us from bodies of which we are part, of which we often receive directives and with which we sign treaties. Amendment 1.3 concerns the loss of certain positions if the Senator changes Group. A safeguard is provided if it is not a decision of the senator to change the Group, but is decided by others or by his own Group. I believe that this would be in addition to mocking the damage: those who have been expelled would also lose their jobs. It would be overly sanctioned. I do not know who Mr Calderoli was referring to, but I believe that when someone has lived them on their own, they cannot be forgotten. I hope it doesn't happen again. I have not lost any office, but I do not think it would be right that those who are being forced to change the Group should also be subject to this penalty. Amendment 1.5 sets out a particular aspect of terminology. I have seen that it was intended to add, in the rule on the composition of the groups, the reference to the political parties and movements that came to the last elections. Using the terminology "political movements" on the one hand does not find a reference in our Constitution, which instead sees in political parties the only Members to carry out national politics: in fact, it uses the term "political parties" to cover the whole wide range of political forces, political movements, and political groups. Inserting the term "political movements" we add something, but we forget about something else, because if instead of the Constitution we refer to the electoral law in force, we see that the so-called Rosatellum- bis explicitly speaks of parties, political movements and political groups. Instead, we are adopting a regulation in which the political groups are not considered, and this could be the subject of controversy, errors and difficulties of interpretation in future legislation, because, as has been said, we are changing a lot and we will no longer have previous references. Someone will therefore wonder what the authentic interpretation is and why the Senate, in December 2017, wanted to remove the reference to the political groups: perhaps it did so because they should not be represented in Parliament! Therefore, those who come to the elections and will not be called parties or movements, but will be called political groups, will not be able to set up a parliamentary group here, according to an interpretation that would also be correct. So we wanted to include the political movements, because here there are, the parties, because - alive God! - the Constitution provides for it, but we wanted to forget about the political groups. Or we could change the Rosatellum-a, but I think we're not in time. It is a semantic issue and I hope it is clear that I am not questioning it and it is not a criticism of my previous group, but it is simply a question of avoiding future problems. With regard to amendment 1.6, given that the reform will give priority to both the drafting and the decision-making bodies in the Commission - and I very much appreciate that - this implies a greater presence in the Commission of the senators because, especially in the decision-making forum, everything will be decided in the Commission. Therefore, the fact that there are groups of 10 people and that therefore some senators are part of more permanent committees, to which we then add the bicameral and investigative committees, carries the risk that some members will participate little or not at all. Moreover, the groups of 10 members will have difficulty in making any replacements in the standing committees. It would therefore be appropriate to establish that each Group should be composed of at least 14 members, one per Permanent Commission: this would provide on average the certainty, except in conjunction with Committees of Inquiry or bicamerals, that a member is always present during the work of the Commission and can participate in the decision-making or drafting headquarters. Again, this is a question of common sense, which does not go against the spirit of reform, which I generally welcome. With amendment 1.11, while maintaining the idea that the parliamentary groups correspond to those who presented themselves in the previous elections, I would like to add the reference not only to the national elections but also to the European elections. We are part of the European Union and in the European elections there are groups, parties and movements - as I said before - that do not correspond to national parties. It could happen and it's happening. Those who, in the course of their work, perhaps wanted to decide - having, according to my idea, at least 14 members - just to give an example of wanting to represent the Alliance of Liberals and Democrats for Europe (ALDE), must be able to do so by setting up the relevant Group. I do not see why it is not possible to do so, especially if it came to the elections, at the national level of Italy and therefore it is known by the citizens and it feels like having to represent it. I believe that this would remove from our minds the idea that what is happening in Europe does not correspond to what is happening in Italy. Amendment 1.15 refers to the rule that groups can only be set up if they result from the union of already established groups: it is a prediction that convinces me little and I would ask to delete it. Amendment 2.30 calls for the obligation to examine the curricula of candidates for the appointment of members in collegial bodies to be introduced. This is often the case, but it is not mandatory. Amendment 2.5 proposes that, in the event of a written provision being examined, the articles should also be voted on in the Assembly and not just the final vote, because this would make the procedure equal to that of the Chamber of Deputies, in which - as I recall - the final vote in the Assembly is to be held after the general discussion and the vote of the individual articles (and not of the amendments). In our forecast, however, there are only the general debate and the final vote in this House. I believe that, by uniformity, either the House of Deputies changes or we change. I think it is best to give visibility to all the articles, also because a senator might want to vote in favour of a single article, or against or rather abstain. Amendment 2.14 provides for the possibility for the Commissions to ask about the draft laws and the business assigned, the acquisition of administrative or technical information and elements necessary to supplement the information on the issues under consideration. So we are asking for this possibility to be made explicit. Amendment 3.5 refers to the idea of separating the days devoted to the work of the Commissions from those of the House's work to allow for a greater order of work; I believe that this is very acceptable. Amendment 3.13 provides for a reduction of intervention time to a maximum of five minutes. We struggle to listen to each other just because sometimes too long interventions do not help listening and then, however, I think that making an effort to synthesise in telling your motivations helps to be even more effective and concrete. Finally, Amendment 3.30, which is the last amendment, provides for the extension of the declaration of inproposability to those bills of conversion of decrees containing legislative delegations. These are my proposals which are only improving and do not call into question the whole of the reform, which I basically welcome. I hope that what I have asked for will be accepted.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-919.ana.u10	Mr President, first of all, I would like to say that when the Senate asks for a statute to be deposited by all the groups, it cannot be ignored. I do not think that in a Senate it is out of place to demand the democracy of every parliamentary group, on the contrary, it is a necessary element. Secondly, at the time when a Statute is deposited, the Senate has, in my opinion, the obligation to see it and possibly, if there are reports of non-application and non-compliance, to provide, because there is no obligation that does not have a sanction, otherwise it is not an obligation and is not binding. If we just have to formally deposit a card, we do a hypocritical exercise and we could also save ourselves the deposit of the Statute. Let's make "everyone free," everyone does what he believes, every party arranges to organize itself as he believes and no one sees it. At this point, in my opinion, other logics prevail over those of a Parliamentary House which should guarantee certain constitutional principles and also ensure that everyone respects them. I am also saying this in response to the rapporteur's observation. I have tabled a number of targeted amendments, including in detail, such as amendment 1.2 which provides, when new elections are called for, that it falls, which is fine, but also that the lapse can possibly be reconfirmed - this is the logic - and be included in the count. One important thing is provided for in Amendment 1.9: in my opinion, if the Mixed Group is to remain so, there can be no component within it that characterizes it in one direction or another. This would make it no longer a Mixed Group but something else. Amendment 1.22 contains a speech on the Group's resources. It would be nice to make transparency and see exactly how the funds from the parliamentary groups have been used. In a parliamentary term in which there has been so much populism about reducing the costs of politics and about transparency, I do not think that this is an issue to be neglected, partly because we note that not all Members have benefited from these funds in the same way and, Mr President - I said this yesterday and I confirm it now - it would be nice that we were all a little more free and even more equal in this House, that every Member of Parliament represented the nation fully and with the same availability of instruments, resources and spaces. That is democracy, because otherwise, if it had only one person's title, we could save ourselves an assembly and have a representative per group who sums up the whole Group. The debate, on the other hand, is useful, also because sometimes in the clash, despite the need for synthesis, clarity and concreteness, there are elements of reflection that lead to even better results. We therefore need transparency and to do this, Mr President, because every time there are abstract bodies, it is difficult to follow the path of money, while the tax codes are clear, if the resources of the Group were to go to the parliamentarians, to the senator, and the senator then gave to the Group, as in some groups where the senators give part of their resources to the party, everything would be more transparent: not the Group, therefore, grants to the senator, but the senator undertakes, in the Group, to contribute to the needs of the staff, to the initiatives and to the parliamentary activity. I do not understand the difficulty, because it would be a way of making transparency and also, in the future, perhaps, being able to reduce expenditure. In the Senate there is a legislative office, a study office and a communication office that work very well, then within each Group there is another legislative office, another communication office, every Member has collaborators, the same things are said and done many times. In no private company wishing to maintain such costs would be depreciable and such an organisation would be available. With Amendment 1.25, I proposed that at least one Senator per Group should be present in the Committee on the Rules of Procedure. This is a protection of minorities, because it is right that numbers should be represented, because democracy is representative and proportional and therefore more senators represent a larger area of citizens, but when it comes to rules, minorities must be protected, because this is the guarantee of democracy. It is all very well for the deliberations to be held, but at least for a very short time in this House, which admits the debate in the Commission, to ensure that everyone has at least a vision of the proposals and if anyone has something to say, they can do so and then a vote is taken. It wouldn't take that long, but it would be a little more thoughtful. With Amendment 3.3 I have proposed that inspection union sessions be concentrated every 15 days from morning to evening: it is an organizational fact that also aims to avoid those updates of the calendar that sometimes also upset the organization of the territorial activity of the parliamentarians, because if there is a fixed time, then in the spaces where it is known that there are no meetings of the Assembly, one can organize and must not cancel the initiatives started. There is not today, in the final file, what I had proposed regarding the sanctions to the Senator when he abandons the Group and the Group that, when he expels senators in breach of the Rules of Procedure deposited in the Senate, pays a penalty that corresponds to what that Member brought into the Group for all the months of his stay. I do not understand why this amendment is not in the file. I had proposed that if the Group expels more than three senators, in violation of the Rules of Procedure that it has given itself (and therefore it is assumed that it has committed itself to respect in the Senate), it is automatically dissolved and the representatives join the Mixed Group. This is a strict indication, but it would lead everyone to respect the rules more: the rules must always be respected and, if a Group gives them, I do not see why it should be the first to ignore them. I think that Article 67 of the Constitution, which regulates the constraints of mandate and states that "Every Member of Parliament represents the nation" must be respected, because it has deep historical reasons. Then, if a senator changes his mind and responds to it, possibly paying the damage to the belonging Group: he will no longer be voted by the citizens, but he must be free to do so. The protection of freedom, democracy, transparency and justice first of all.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-919.ana.u11	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I rise to explain the amendments I signed first and to make a comment on what the rapporteur said. First of all, I would like to point out that in the amendments I have first signed, the term 'expelling' has never been found. Mr President, it is not easy or even funny, in this Senate, to have to talk about sad events, which could be robbed of personal events, if it were not that they could be constitutive of a democratic functioning and osmosis that can be between the outside and the inside of this institution. In Amendment 1.7 I stress that it is the prerogative of the individual senator to decide whether to join or no longer join a Group, because it can happen and it has already happened that this freedom, which owes a sacred freedom to the individual senator, is taken away from him. I do not accept that the change of coat against which Senator Calderoli has gone is confused with a completely different mechanism and very dangerous for the freedom to express his opinions. This is a difference, Senator Calderoli. I believe that expressing within the Rules of Procedure that it is only in the availability of the individual senator's decision to join or no longer join a Group is also an instrument to make that difference between what can legitimately be sanctioned - I don't want to say it, others say it: I have expressed myself differently in the general discussion but here I stop at the illustration of my amendments - and that it can be a change of opinion with respect to the flag with which we were elected and what, on the other hand, is a malfunction or serious dysfunction of a democratic mechanism. It may happen that someone receives from outside the precise instructions - I repeat, from outside - that intervene and interfere with mechanisms that these institutions should and should have protected at the appropriate time. [[Applause from Senators Bencini, Bignami and Fucksia]] Therefore, I believe that this point should be the subject of attention and I assure my fellow senators that it is not pleasant to have to make this speech and that I and the senators who, with me, have had to pay and serve this mechanism, bring it back to this House for a duty of democracy towards those who will come and those who elect their representatives in this House. So I demand that this appropriate difference be made. The other amendments I have tabled concern the functioning of the Mixed Group and have been inspired by the Rules of Procedure of the House, so they aim to bring back within the Senate a mechanism that exists in the other branch of Parliament and in its Rules of Procedure, which I believe would make the structure of the Mixed Group more functional. Being consistent with the Rules of Procedure of the House, I hope they can be welcomed and voted favorably. There is one last amendment that I care about, the 2.20, concerning the presence in the Commissions. Here too, I would ask that, once the Commissions have been composed in the first decision and in their establishment, it should be made clear that the move from a Commission is made on the basis of a request from the individual senator. In fact, I believe that, if we are talking about a dialectic within the Groups and this is the imprint that all these extensive amendments to the Rules of Procedure reflect, it is right that even the presence in the Commissions, especially in the light of the increasing value of their work, is discussed and negotiated within the Group and there can be no intervention of authority that could trigger negative reactions. That is the point of my amendments, and I would also like to see the value that I intend to give to both the decision and the freedom to decide of the individual senator, and to a correct dialectic within the Groups, among the different elected. [[Applause from Senators Bencini and Bignami.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-919.ana.u12	On behalf of the Assembly, I greet the teachers and students of the Institute of Higher Secondary Education (Luigi Einaudi) of Manduria, in the province of Taranto, who are attending our work. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-919.ana.u13	Mr President, since I joined the Senate in 2013, I have tabled a number of proposals to amend our Rules of Procedure, but I have only presented one draft to the House here. Allow me to draw your attention to the deficit that we must have with regard to the reform capacity that we have developed over the years, as well as to the critical review of the results we have achieved. The First Republic had few parties and few parliamentary groups and the regulatory system was roughly the one still in force today. With the Second Republic, in the wake of the overcoming of political fragmentation, we have introduced coercive rules at the level of electoral law and, in some cases, also in the parliamentary regulations of the two Assemblies: the result is a plethora of subjects who are born and die during a day or a morning while, at the same time, this requirement of synthesis of political positions is not achieved at all. My amendment raises one question: what politics does not solve cannot be solved simply by means of a regulation. There is also a problem of respect for the principle of self-determination and the choice of the MEP, who takes responsibility for his choices before the House and the voters. I do not think that the Member who has appeared on a list that has not reached the minimum, set on the basis of an absolutely irrational criterion, can be co-argued in any way. In fact, I agree with Mr Orellana: if the minimum was fourteen, corresponding to the number of standing committees of merit, it would make sense; but to indicate ten as a fateful number to access or not to direct political representation within this House, frankly it makes a bit of a smile, if it were not simply on the basis of a principle of the convenience of the major political forces. I therefore believe that we must safeguard the right of those who apply with a symbol and, although elected, do not reach the minimum that has been prescribed. The right of direct stand and representation of one's political position must be guaranteed even if the number of Members does not correspond to ten. At the same time, Mr President, I do not believe that the will can be guaranteed if ten Members from a group, in the face of a degeneration of their group's political position, decide to form a different political position. Even then, although they did not appear in the elections with that political position, but having gained a different political position and having reached the required number of parliamentarians, that autonomy of choice must be guaranteed. These are basic principles of democracy, Mr President. Colleagues, I would like to remind you that we are still unfulfilled with the constitutional principle of the legal recognition of parties and their regulation by law. This is another matter. I believe that we are very late, but we cannot, on the one hand, be unfulfilled on a general principle and instead introduce principles of limiting democracy and the free will of the parliamentarians with respect to choices that can often be dramatic, because in the history of our country there have been crucial steps that have had the free discernment of the parliamentarians. [[Applause from Senator Fucksia.]] Mr President, I will stop here, just calling for another element. Allow me, even if it is not part of my amendment: I want to touch it briefly. Colleagues, I am a man of the world and I am not scandalized in front of anything, but, frankly, if there were a nursing surgeon in an operating room, would we let the child into the operating room in order to be breast-fed during surgery? [[Applause from Senators Fucksia and Rizzotti.]] Well, let's avoid an excess of political correctness that just makes you laugh. All things must be given their proper weight: I believe that mothers have the right to breast-feed their children and they can also be exempted for a quarter of an hour from the vote in the House to go breast-feed them. [[Applause from Senators Fucksia, Mandelli and Rizzotti]] But frankly, baby bottles and whining in a parliamentary Chamber I would try to avoid them. [[Applause from Senators Fucksia, Mandelli and Rizzotti.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-919.ana.u14	Mr President, first of all I would like to ask you a question: does it confirm that there will be no final explanation of vote but only explanations of vote for each item? PRESIDENT. - The debate is You have the power to explain all the amendments, Senator Mazzoni. I will only explain the amendments to Article 1 and in this speech I will also give an explanation of vote for Article 1. The principles that are enshrined in this new regulation are based on a simple idea: the groups that are formed in Parliament after the elections must correspond to the parties and movements that have requested votes from the voters and have been elected by them, with the addition that this structure, the result of the electoral choices, must remain unchanged throughout the legislature. Now, I want to remind you of Article 67 of the Constitution, which reads: Each Member of Parliament represents the nation and carries out his function without a mandate. This article was written and designed to ensure the most absolute freedom of expression for Members of Parliament. In other words, in order to guarantee democracy, the constituents felt it appropriate that each individual Member should not be bound by any mandate, either to the party to which he belonged when he was a candidate, or to the electoral programme, or to the voters who, by voting, had allowed him to be elected. So the prohibition of a mandatory mandate was clearly and unequivocally established. Now, if it is perhaps right to try to avoid the fragmentation of the Groups when it comes to purely and clearly opportunistic micro-scissions, we are wondering whether it is at least excessive to prevent by the Rules of Procedure that the great political divisions caused by deep political disagreements and ideals cannot find an appropriate parliamentary representation. There are many historical examples of this. Senator Calderoli, when the left wing of the Socialist Party, led by Gramsci and Bordiga, left the party in 1921 and founded the Communist Party of Italy, was it a transformation or something more politically valuable? And could Gramsci and Bordiga be included on the turncoat list? And when Saragat moved away from Nenni in 1947, was he a turncoat or a far-sighted political leader? In 1964 the left wing of the PSI split to form the PSIUP, and then there was the unification between PSI and PSDI in the PSU and the subsequent split. In short - and I conclude - the history of Parliament and Italian politics is not only made up of turncoats or transformers: it is also made up of ideal political struggles which, in the future, for this new Rules of Procedure of the Senate, will no longer be able to find immediate representation in Parliament. Should Gramsci, Bordiga and Saragat join the Mixed Group or another party already present in Parliament? In our view, this is an unconstitutional impediment and that is why we cannot vote in favour of Article 1 of this regulation. [[Senator Milo's applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-919.ana.u15	Mr President, we had already tabled a number of amendments to the Committee on the Rules of Procedure which tried to make certain operations in relation to the basic text drawn up by the Committee on the Rules of Procedure. Some amendments, of which only the spirit has been accepted, tried to consolidate certain guarantees for oppositions. This is all the more so because we are now on the eve of the dissolution of the Chambers and we have a new electoral law that, as it is done, but gives absolutely unpredictable results. I therefore call on all the senators - because I believe it would be everyone's interest - to reflect on the fact that we need to take strong account of the guarantees of opposition, because no one knows who will have the majority today. I believe that this would therefore be a form of respect for everyone and also of foresight, as well as a strong re-evaluation of the role of this House. The other issue concerned a long debate on the Groups. We absolutely agree that it is necessary to give signals and to put rules in place to prevent operations of pure transformation, but under this category we cannot do operations that have nothing to do with anti-transformism rules. In particular, Amendment 1.13, which we have tabled, relates to the fact that the text proposed by the Committee on the Rules of Procedure - in fact, by the Committee on the Rules of Procedure - even prevents the formation of a group by senators who have not transformed, but who have presented themselves with their list, with their faces, with their identity in the elections and - given what the law provides - have exceeded 3%. I would ask everyone to reflect on the fact that the draft regulation under discussion somehow prevents citizens and voters from being represented in the Senate Assembly. Indeed, as we intervene on the reform of the Rules of Procedure, much of the parliamentary work and the legislative process will take place within the Commissions and the mechanism of preventing the formation of Groups to those who do not reach the ten members but have nevertheless exceeded the threshold of 3% and have presented themselves at national level with a single symbol and with a single list, will in fact prevent these senators also from doing their work, that is, their duty to the citizens who elected them. They will be excluded from many parts of the legislative process because, if for many drafts of the law they will work in the deliberating and drafting, all this work will be theirs in the inaccessible facts: they will be able to go to the Commission just to see, but they will certainly not be able to express their vote and will be able to participate, in the case of the writing venue, only in the final vote in the Chamber. We're talking about senators whose lists must have surpassed the 3% barrier. I invite everyone to reflect on this, which is a not indifferent element because, I repeat, at this stage those senators will end up in the Mixed Group, with everything that this entails from the point of view of participation in the legislative procedure, not being able to be present in all the Commissions. This is even more incredible, Mr President, and I also say this to the rapporteur, Mr Calderoli, that on this point he had put forward a rewording so that the formations that exceeded 3% and therefore had around the five senators could form the Group, which is currently a rule in our Rules of Procedure and which has not been abused, Mr President. I would like to remind you here that we, senators who were elected with the Left, Ecology and Freedom in seven, had every opportunity to ask and to have the derogation, because we had introduced ourselves in all the Regions and therefore we had all the Christs. For our choice, then, in some ways even of sobriety, we decided not to ask for the derogation, so the rule was not abused. In this legislature much more has been abused, because even the big groups have separated, they have formed other groups, one part to the government and the other to the opposition: others have been the operations, another has been the story of the transformation and the change of the coat, like other is the story that has led many senators to leave or to be sent away by the Group. These are very different issues. In addition, it is paradoxical that those who have been elected, thus overcoming the 3% barrier, have presented themselves with a single list, have presented their programmes and their project, have discussed with the citizens and have taken the votes, so it has exceeded 3%, by virtue of that program and of that project, will not be able to constitute the Group if it does not reach the ten components where to have ten senators, it has to be between 6 and 7 percent. If you have 3 percent, you may reach 5 percent, but you probably will need 4 percent. So we're talking about political forces that aren't exactly microscopic, which represent a small band of the electorate. We cannot set up a group, but instead we introduce a rule for those who, for example, present themselves in coalition, perhaps at the uninomial college, having a list of them that does not exceed 3%. Of these cases we will have a lot of them, Mr President, because coalitions are being made, we are trying to make coalitions with lists and lists that may not exceed 3%. These, if they all put together - one elected to the uninomial college here, another elected to the uninomial college beyond, another elected below, another elected above - although their lists, linked to other parties, do not reach 3%, may constitute the Group. You understand that this would really be a dissonant element in a clear way compared to the will of the citizens. I ask the House to reflect on this point, otherwise we are doing a bad service, even putting under the definition of anti-transformism rules an act that effectively prevents many electoral citizens from being fully represented in this House, thereby reducing representation to an honorable post. [[Applause from the Misso-SI-SEL-Leu Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-919.ana.u16	Mr President, I have tabled three amendments. Amendment 1.26 means that the Junta must address the methodology by which the presences in the Commission and in the Assembly are monitored. With the reform that we are considering, we will certainly go, as is right, to work more in the Commission, but we know that the presences in the Commission are not public. Therefore, if we do not intervene in this context, in the next parliamentary term we will have senators who will be very present in this House, those few opportunities that we will go to vote on the final measures (especially in the drafting procedure), and then, perhaps, there might never be in the Commission. We all know that there is a system of monitoring, of open policy, of open Parliament, which is often also advertised by the media: we will therefore have senators who are always brilliantly present in this House, but who will never be present in the Commission. This is a distortion which, in my opinion, should be addressed. As far as Amendment 3.19 is concerned, as you know, President, in February 2016 he found himself having to respond to an article published in "The Messenger," signed by Claudio Marincola, with whom I collaborated, at the time, to bring out what, in my opinion, is a bad habit, introduced in a resolution, that allows the parliamentarians to be present for administrative purposes, therefore for the payment of the diary, having simply the card inserted. As you know, we have often spoken during the course of the proceedings of our sessions to try to remedy this anomaly. Imagine if we were to start voting on the measure now: just look around to see that in all the cracks, including those of the 5 Star Movement, but also in those of the Groups that are before my eyes, there are colleagues who leave the card inserted and then abstain. I've never intervened during these controversy. If, however, we do not want to remedy this, we give a bad signal to the public, and we ourselves rise. Among other things, we have adopted measures - I am thinking of the one on public administration - which provide for heavy sanctions against the so-called smart cards. I can't understand why we can't get a hold of this situation. It seems to me that the Presidency Council has never dealt with this issue. I think that there is nothing wrong with it, because - I repeat - allowing the Member not to express his preference, especially when the assessment of the abstention vote is changed, may be a sporadic case, but not the norm. And we all know that, despite your commitment, President, and that of the Secretary Senators and parliamentary assistants, this is a bad practice that continues to be put into practice. Amendment 3.19 is therefore an opportunity to remedy this situation. The last proposal that I particularly care about is contained in Amendment 4.1. Mr President, during the budgetary session in the Commission I tried to explain the proposal and I am sorry that Mr Morando did not grasp the importance of the proposed innovation, which is not innovation. What are we talking about? We continue to receive documents, especially from the General Accounting Office of the State, on which, to show us that a validation process has been completed, the so-called boiling is placed. These documents are transmitted with a totally obsolete methodology and also antifunctional to the correct examination of the same. We are talking about the documents that are printed, boiled, stamped manually and then scanned, to which a person is dedicated. As I said at the budgetary session, this is a waste of resources, time and energy. Documents produced in this way, inter alia, are also heavier at the level of bytes and space occupied on the Internet. If we see the size occupied on the net of the annex at the last budget session, it will be just over three mega or three and a half mega. The same document that we receive from the General Accounting Office of the State, elaborated then by the Offices - it is even broken into multiple files - is a file that occupies from 30 to 70 mega. This shows a waste of resources, although the capabilities of computer systems have improved, and involves the production of totally illegible documents, since it is not possible within the text to search for the keyword. During this parliamentary term, five budgetary sessions followed this methodology. When we come to our examination of the government's maxi amendment, the Member who wants to see if a specific amendment is present in that text must scroll 100 or 200 pages. Then I wonder if, in 2017, we can continue to have such an approach with the IT tool. This amendment leads to expenditure savings and resource efficiency. Since it was not possible to approve it during the budget session, we could now incorporate it into the Senate Rules and decide as Senate this methodology, which can also be taken into account by those who transmit the documents to us. [[Applause from Senator Bignami.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-919.ana.u17	Mr President, Amendment 1.0.1 seems to be a modest proposal, but in reality it hides a project of strong ambition. The Parliamentary Librarian Pole has already existed for a decade: it has been properly designed, but not practically realized. Amendment 1.0.1 therefore aims to propose a practical final implementation of this appropriate project. Few know that the Senate library until about ten years ago was located at Madama Palace, a stone's throw from the House. The reading room was the current Koch room. And this was very positive because, when the senators worked in the Library, they could reach the Chamber in a few minutes, while today it is a bit more complicated, being in the Minerva Square. The physical unification of the libraries of the Senate and the Chamber was the realization of an important project that - I believe - is the work of President Spadolini. As you know, you can enter the Library of the Senate from Piazza della Minerva, go to the Library of the Chamber of Deputies and go out in via del Seminario. It would really be appropriate to conclude the project now by building what, in the model of the United States, turns out to be the library of Congress, which includes the Library and the attached archives of Parliament. Since we have not been able to overcome bicameralism, we begin to overcome bibliotecarism. Among other things, it is necessary to abandon the proposals for major constitutional reform of the first Craxian brand, then Berlusconian and, finally, renziana and to proceed to a series of small institutional reforms that give the institutions the character of greater efficiency, practicability and even greater recognition to the outside world. The project provides that the library and archival center of the two Chambers gathered also becomes an attractive cultural center towards the outside and above all something that begins to reunite the services of the two Chambers in a single structure with a saving of resources and an increase of efficiency. The intention, then, is to create something more: to create a sort of pole not only librarian, but also cultural, where to resume a speech of elaboration of political culture to offer to the outside, aiming above all to a large operation of political reacculturation of the younger generations. Initiatives could also be carried out outside Parliament with seminars, conferences, book presentations, comparisons between various political and cultural options to be offered to the younger generations who, in my opinion, do not need a tour in Palazzo Madama or in Montecitorio or participation in Senate and Chamber sessions. Young people should be seated in the beautiful rooms that we have at our disposal. I am thinking of the Chamber of Parliamentary Acts, the Chapter Hall and the Sala in via del Seminario, which is the responsibility of the Chamber of Deputies, to begin to produce in their heads that attraction towards politics that is currently lacking. The model that I am referring to is the Library of Congress of the United States, located in Washington, where what I have said is pragmatic. Let me give just one example: on June 6, 1945, at the Library of Congress in Washington, Thomas Mann, on the occasion of his 70th birthday, gave the famous speech "Germany and the Germans," a text of high German cultural history and literature, where among other things he justified his refusal to return to Germany even after the collapse of Nazism. We don't have many Thomas Manns around to present in public, but I think that's a model to repeat and resume. Therefore, behind this amendment there is the draft that I have highlighted, which should start from here, in order to develop in this direction. Mr President, I would also like to add that I think it is appropriate that it should also be signed by President Zavoli, because it is up to you to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-919.ana.u18	Mr President, I have tabled as the first signatory two amendments which, being similar and probably absorbed by others tabled by the Commission, I would like to explain to Senator Cociancich.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-919.ana.u19	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-919.ana.u20	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-919.ana.u21	MALAN (FI-PdL XVII). Mr President, would you like to explain all the amendments tabled on all the articles at the same time? PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Yes. MALAN (FI-PdL XVII). Everyone? Since it has not been announced, the Rules of Procedure, which we are talking about here, prescribes something else. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I said that at first. MALAN (FI-PdL XVII). Mr President, I think you should have asked if there was an agreement on this, as the Rules of Procedure provide for something else. PRESIDENT. - The debate is Since no one has commented and there was nothing against it, we have gone on in this way. MALAN (FI-PdL XVII). The Rules of Procedure, "as a rule" - as they say - should be applied. PRESIDENT. - The debate is Then you will understand why, since there will also be a change in the voting order, which is in the President's power.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-919.ana.u22	Mr President, I shall therefore explain the amendments in this way, which do not comply with the Rules of Procedure. It is true that you have said so, but perhaps, at least when discussing the Rules of Procedure, it should be applied without amendment. You probably have a much more refined and acceptable reason, but the mere fact of saying "so we take them off" does not seem to me in the spirit of a healthy debate. In general - I am presenting my amendments - I believe that we must aim for an effective discussion of the proposals put forward in this House. The function of the Senate and in general of Parliament is not to make laws quickly, because those who do this are certainly a very different body, with fewer members and with someone who ultimately decides for everyone. Parliament is born exactly from the opposite requirement, so that every point that is proposed - certainly not on the Rules of Procedure, but on the laws in general, which concern our society and the lives of our citizens - is examined in the light of the sun and with full awareness. Therefore, if the amendments were to be put forward at the time when the rapporteur is present and someone listens, because we are about to vote on that subject, it would not be bad. If, on the other hand, the point is to let this moment pass, it would actually be better to delete it. If taking the floor is a waste of time, there is a suspicion that Parliament itself - as the word itself says - is a waste of time. [[Applause from Senator Mussini]] Having said that, I would like to explain Amendments Nos 2.11 and 2.12, although I do not know who, since doing so in the absence of the rapporteur, is somewhat abnormal. In any case, these amendments provide for the abolition of automaticism. Given that every bill is assigned to the drafting or deliberating body - and therefore the House would have a role almost only of ratification - and being provided, also in the light of the rules already in force, the possibility to return quite easily to the usual form of the reference office where it is really discussed in the Chamber - except for trust and other subterfuge found or instruments employed - I do not think it is convenient for the effectiveness of the discussion that, if we return to the reference office, there must necessarily be a termination of the work. And this is for a reason opposite to what appears: at this point, it will be the oppositions who will ask for the return to the referring seat - that is, apparently a slowing down of the measures dear to them - precisely on what is dear to them, having a further channel to fill the discussion of the Commissions. There is therefore a possibility of obstruction, not on the measures that the majority has the right to take forward - and I speak as an opposition senator - but on those that the opposition wants to take forward, probably with little hope. Spaces dedicated to opposition are already reserved with a completely different instrument. There are spaces for popular initiative laws with other tools. Here, in an unwanted way I believe, we give ourselves a further space through an instrument that apparently allows the majority to impose their own measures in a particularly peremptory way, which generally already manages to do today. There is therefore a possibility for the opposition to force the Commission to discuss any measure without any numerical limits. While the spaces reserved for opposition are regulated and limited, there is no limit here and therefore, without any limit, oppositions will be able to request, even with five or six members, to clog the Commission's work with their measures. It does not seem to me to be an effective way of proceeding and not even respectful of the spirit that drives this same reform, which is to give the opposition a fair chance and the majority to carry out their own measures, of course if it has the numbers in this House. Let me turn to the following article: with Amendment 3.4, I would like to maintain the wording of Rule 53 of the Rules of Procedure, which deals with the weeks reserved for the Commission's work and the weeks reserved for the work of the House. I agree with the approach of this reform, which involves a greater commitment of the Commissions. However, as it is formulated, once the term 'normally' has been removed, it will be an absolute obligation to have two weeks a month reserved for committees without the work of this House, which means that at most two weeks will be reserved for this House. I believe - and I must say that we have some experience - that, since all majorities have so far been indispensable - and not only - four weeks of work in this House, if they are to be reduced to two for the rather utopian objective of strengthening the work in the Commission, but where oppositions will be easy to return to the reference office and therefore to the most costly stage of the work, having no longer as a rule, but as an absolute imperative, the fact that we have no more than two weeks of sitting in this House per month does not seem to me to be very rational. Then we will have to invent some mechanisms to overcome the excessive tightening up of the Rules of Procedure. But I would say that it is precisely the opposite of what should be aimed at with a reform of the Rules of Procedure. I also hope that I will have time to talk about Amendment No 3,17, which deals with two of those which I consider to be the biggest problems we have encountered in this parliamentary term and not just in this Parliament: on the one hand, the overwhelming number of amendments, which are obviously greater than any possible consideration by this House, and, on the other hand, the consequent introduction of mechanisms which see their justification only in the opposite excess of the amendments. I therefore make two proposals, not by chance put forward in a single amendment: firstly, the limit to the number of amendments that each Group can table; a rather broad limit which avoids the excesses of the past which, even from a typographical point of view, would risk bringing the Senate to its knees. And this is so true that procedures have had to be invented that at no point does the Regulation provide for the release of millions (literally) of amendments and to allow amendments - to mean "Esposito amendments" Stefano, as they have been defined at the time - which summarize the whole measure in one article, usually premissive, placed in the first place, in Article 01, with respect to the entire bill; and this contradicts what the Constitution specifies, which provides that the Chambers examine the provisions article by article. Leaving aside the fact that we have already seen articles composed of 1,000, 1,300, 1,500 paragraphs - and, therefore, this problem already exists - if we also use the technique of the premissive articles, which sum up in themselves the contents of all the other articles, we put in place a clear violation of the Constitution, passing among other things from one excess to the other. In other words, we move from millions of amendments to a single amendment which votes on the entire draft law, and this is therefore a disguised written seat which actually takes away any possibility of examination by the House. These proposals go exactly in the spirit of the reform, i.e. rationalization of the work. I do not think that this House is mortifying the fact that the senators are expressing their reasons. But it is right to limit overall the duration of the interventions, because what is said in ten minutes as a rule can be condensed in five. This, however, which surely mortifies the House, is to spend whole days pressing buttons, with little awareness of what we are saying yes or no to. With these amendments I propose to remedy the two anomalies highlighted. [[Senator Caliendo's applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-919.ana.u23	Mr President, what I have tabled are amendments which have been largely shared with the other political forces present in the 14th century. Commission and I thank Senator Floris who gave me the floor to be able to explain them at first instance. The first is amendment 2.4, which aims to give access to the work of the 14th Commission, European policies, including the elected Members of the European Parliament in Italy, who can thus interlogate and bring their experience and knowledge of the issues of political debate at European level and thus give greater concentration to the members of the 14th Commission of what are the real interests at stake. At the same time, there would be an osmotic exchange of skills and knowledge, thus allowing our Members of the European Parliament a greater concentration of positions and political debate within the Senate, which they will be able to take into account when they have to intervene, report back and take a position in the European Parliament. It therefore seems to me that the amendment aims to give more weight and impact to the Senate even at European level, giving greater effectiveness to our action. Mr President, I now turn to the rapporteur because I would like to propose a rewording of amendment 2.4, by deleting paragraph 1-b. I also propose that the following words be deleted from the current paragraph 1-c (which would become 1-b): Finally, I propose that paragraph 1-d be deleted as a whole. The other amendment that I intend to table is 2.15 concerning the centralisation of the function of verifying compliance with the principle of subsidiarity in the 14th Commission, providing for a mechanism for which, should one of the Commissions of substance find that there is a question of subsidiarity, it should be referred back to the 14th Commission. I believe that this is important, because it would give the Senate some guidance on the evaluation of subsidiarity issues, certainly increasing their strength, credibility and ability to have a unique intercourse with the European institutions. Instead of speaking with 14 different voices, one would in fact speak with one voice. Moreover, this provision would not deprive the Commission of the opportunity to deal with the matter and, once one of these points had to be dealt with, refer the matter back to the 14th Commission.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-919.ana.u24	I call on the rapporteur to give his opinion on the proposal for reformulation put forward by Senator Cociancich.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-919.ana.u25	Mr President, Senator Cociancich, I agree with the content of the rewording, but we propose to combine it with a single paragraph: 'In paragraph 1, paragraph 'Art. The following words shall be inserted after paragraph 1: "1-a. Members of the European Parliament of Italy may have access to the meetings of the Political Commission of the European Union, may participate without the right to The concept is the same, but it is merged into a single paragraph.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-919.ana.u26	Senator Cociancich, do you agree with the proposed reformulation? COCIANCICH (PD). Yes, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-919.ana.u27	Mr President, this is a single amendment, 3.2, which in fact, rather than an amending intention, is the expression of a doubt on which I would ask the rapporteur for a reflection. My amendment seeks to restore the regulatory matter relating to the use of CNEL opinions. Let me explain: my doubt is motivated by the fact that the CNEL, in addition to being an instrument of subsidiarity within our constitutional principles, is a controversial actor of the reform rejected by the referendum, so much so that it had become a real topos, full of meanings, in the referendum vote. With the measure put forward by Mr Calderoli, we would no longer use the right of access to the opinions of CNEL. At the same time, however, in the budget law we have already voted, as Senate, to return to correspond emoluments at least to a part of its members. Now, I simply repent of a contradiction, in the sense that, if these organisms are to function and serve the life of the country, it is right that they are exploited to the full, so that they can render opinions to the Chambers. In this respect, I would like to mention the example that comes from the functioning of the Economic and Social Committee in the European Parliament, where the Commissions are regularly involved in the work, giving opinions, not only Commissions and Councils, but also precisely the Economic and Social Committee and the Committee of the Regions. Otherwise, we do not understand why with our right hand we do something and with our left hand we do its opposite. The sense of the restoration proposal is, therefore, that there is a complete use, corresponding to the constitutional intentions, if the vote of the constitutional referendum, in the end, perhaps with other reasons, however, has intended to defend the existence of this body really.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-919.ana.u28	The remaining amendments are set out. Since we must now turn to the amendments to the various articles and for the approval of the individual articles and additional amendments, an absolute majority of the members of the Senate is required, in accordance with Rule 102 (4) of the Rules of Procedure, for the sake of the economy and the clarity of the votes, I believe that they will take place at the end of the examination of the amendments. It also notes that requests for secret voting have been made for all amendments and articles. Before passing the floor to the rapporteur, to report on the direction of the Committee on the Rules of Procedure on the amendments tabled, pursuant to Rule 167 (4) of the Rules of Procedure, I declare that the amendments are inadmissible and cannot be proposed. In accordance with yesterday's meeting of the Committee on the Rules of Procedure, the Presidency states that amendment 1.11 is inadmissible, which makes it possible to set up a parliamentary group in the Senate subject to the fact that a political party came to the European elections, as well as proposal 4.1, as it affects the work of another constitutional body. It also states that amendments 2.30, 3.1 and 3.30, which are intended to amend articles of the Rules of Procedure which are unrelated to the content of the proposed amendment adopted by the Junta, cannot be proposed. I give the floor to the rapporteur to report on the direction of the Junta on the amendments tabled pursuant to Rule 167 (4) of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-919.ana.u29	Mr President, first of all I would like to ask you, in order to carry out your work properly, to be able to give your opinion on an item by article, and then to vote on it and then to move on to the next article. I would like to announce that, in relation to some of the positions of the Council, the Committee has reached unanimity on some of the opinions that I am going to supplement today. I am in favour of amendment 1.1, subject to a rewording of the following text: "After paragraph 2, the following is added: "The Presidency Council adopts the Code of Conduct of the Senators, which lays down principles and rules of conduct to be followed by the Senators in the exercise of their parliamentary mandate. If the proposers accept the rewording, the opinion is in favour.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-919.ana.u30	Senator Orellana, do you accept? Orellana (Aut (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT)-PSI-MAIE). Yes, ma'am. Mr Calderoli, rapporteur. The opinion is in favour of amendment 1,100 (text 2) of the rapporteur, who, in order to allow an understanding of the text, provides that the revocation of the term as Vice President, as Secretary of the Chamber or as a member of the Bureau for Group change takes place only when it is a result of a manifest will of the person concerned and not for sanctions taken by the Group. The following paragraph provides for the possibility for former Presidents of the Republic not to necessarily join a political group and, with the inclusion of Article 19, it is expected that the Presidency of the Assembly of Parliamentary Elections and Immunities will be the responsibility of the Opposition Groups so that the relationship between majority and opposition will also be guaranteed in the Commissions. I call on the authors to withdraw Amendments 1.2 and 1.3, which are incorporated into Amendment 1,100 (text 2). The opinion is opposed to amendments 1.7, 1.6, 1.9, 1.8. I call on the proposers to withdraw amendment 1.5 as it is not included in the adoption of 1.00 (text 2). The opinion was also opposed to amendment 1.10. With regard to amendment 1.13, tabled by Senator De Petris, there has been a discussion both in Junta and in the Committee. The concept expressed by Senator De Petris, whom I personally share, is that when a party comes to the elections and, of course, in order to have elected representatives, it must overcome the quorum provided for by the electoral law, which corresponds to seven senators, if it has presented itself with a symbol - as far as I am concerned - it should be able to set up its own Group independently of the ten members. However, unanimity has not been achieved and I am therefore expressing my personal opinion here, but the opinion was against it in the Council. I am against Amendments 1.12, 1.14, 1.15, 1.16, 1.17, 1.18, 1.19, 1.21 and 1.22. On Amendments 1.23 and 1.24 we have reached a favourable opinion, following the rewording that I intend to put to the authors: The Council of President may regulate the economic treatment of the reimbursements payable to the Senators and the terms and conditions of the relations with the collaborators of the individual Senators. If the rewording is accepted, the opinion therefore becomes favourable. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Does Senator Bottici accept the request for the rewording of amendment 1.26, on which the rapporteur gave a favourable opinion? BOTTICS (M5S). Yes, Mr. President. Mr Calderoli, rapporteur. The opinion was opposed to amendment 1.25. On Amendment 1.26 the opinion would be in favour if the rapporteur wished to accept the following rewording: In Article 12, insert the following paragraph: "The Council of President shall identify the rules for monitoring and advertising attendance in the Commission and in the Assembly." PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Does Senator Battista accept the request for the rewording of amendment 1.24, on which the rapporteur gave a favourable opinion? BATTIST (Art. 1-MDP-LEU). Yes, Mr. President. Mr Calderoli, rapporteur. The opinion on amendment 1.27 is opposed. Amendment 1.0.1, the content of which is absolutely acceptable, is unfortunately a commitment to regulations relating to the House of Deputies. So, while I share the spirit of this, compared with a measure that could have been achieved if there had been similar work in the other branch of Parliament, I am forced to call for the withdrawal and transformation of the agenda to be presented when examining the Senate's internal budget.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-919.ana.u31	Senator Tronti, do you accept the invitation to the agenda for the examination of the Senate's internal budget?
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-919.ana.u32	Mr President, I refer to the Commission's decision. However, I would ask you to vote on the agenda in order to strengthen this issue.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-919.ana.u33	Senator Tronti, it is not possible to vote on agendas because the agendas are not allowed here. They are only allowed in the internal budget examination. You will therefore be able to retable this amendment as an agenda when we deal with the internal budget. Agendas are not allowed, also because there is no government counterpart to ask for commitment. I therefore accept the call for withdrawal and the proposal for a subsequent presentation of an agenda at the place indicated.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-919.ana.u34	Mr President, I understand from your words that we shall proceed with a secret vote in relation to all the amendments and articles.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-919.ana.u35	So it was requested.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-919.ana.u36	Mr Calderoli, rapporteur. In this respect, Mr President, I am asking you, given the sensitivity of the secret vote, to specify perfectly the opinions in favour or against and give an indication to the House.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-919.ana.u37	We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment No 1.1 (text 2) on which a favourable opinion has been expressed and on which the requested number of senators has submitted a request for a secret ballot. I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported).
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-919.ana.u38	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-919.ana.u39	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-919.ana.u40	Mr Barani (ALA). Mr President, the request for a secret vote is not acceptable. Rule 113 of the Rules of Procedure is clear on this point.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-919.ana.u41	Indeed, Senator Barani, the request for a secret vote on certain amendments was previously tabled. Therefore, pursuant to Rule 113 (4) of the Rules of Procedure, I refer to the secret ballot of amendment 1.1 (text2), tabled by Senator Orellana and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). I would like to refer to the vote by a simultaneous vote on amendment 1,100 (text 2), tabled by the rapporteur. CANDIANI (LN-Aut). Mr President, is this about the vote for support or for the amendment? PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. That is the vote on the amendment. [[Comments from M5S and LN-Aut Groups.]] Colleagues, we cancel the vote. We need to clear this up. Given the exceptional nature of the situation, we shall proceed to check that we support the secret vote on Article 1, which concerns all the amendments tabled to it. We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment No 1,100 (text 2), on which, as with all the other amendments tabled on Article 1, the requested number of senators was requested by secret ballot. I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). Pursuant to Rule 113 (4) of the Rules of Procedure, I refer to the secret ballot of amendment 1,100 (text 2) tabled by the rapporteur. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). Amendment 1.3 is therefore incorporated. Amendments 1.6, 1.5 and 1.10 are therefore excluded. Senator Fucksia, do you accept the request to withdraw amendment 1.2 or do you ask to vote on it? FUCKSIA (FL (Id-PL, PLI)). I would ask for the vote. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment No 1.2, on which the requested number of senators has submitted a request for a secret ballot. Pursuant to Rule 113 (4) of the Rules of Procedure, I refer to the secret ballot of amendment 1.2 tabled by Senator Fucksia. Sorry, but there's a technical problem we need to solve. The system is not set up automatically to vote on a number of amendments whose secret voting requests have been validated by a single vote of support. It is an exceptional thing, which had never happened and is not expected: that is the reason. We will therefore have to ask for support for each vote. So let's take it slow. It is a technical problem, which has manifested itself because for the first time we have this sequence of secret votes.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-919.ana.u42	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-919.ana.u43	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-919.ana.u44	FALANGA (ALA). Mr President, for a technical problem of the system, we are in a position to violate a rule of the Rules of Procedure. I would suggest that we "follow" the system by voting, but not taking into account the outcome of the vote, since no secret vote is required. It is a solution that meets the needs of the system and also the rules of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-919.ana.u45	The solution is precisely what we have adopted, that is to ask for support from time to time. FALANGA (ALA). Mr President, if we do not have the number of applicants, we must disregard them and vote on them anyway. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. It's not like that. Senator Falanga, we have a request signed by 20 applicants, if from time to time they do not change their minds and continue to support the request we will have the same result, which is equivalent to the request. So if there is no repentance within the applicants, we will go on like this.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-919.ana.u46	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-919.ana.u47	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-919.ana.u48	Mr Buemi (Misto-FdV). Mr President, I believe that the rule states something else, namely that there is no need for verification of applicants. If we are to overcome the technical element, however, we must not amend the Rules of Procedure of the Senate, so rightly, as Mr Falanga says, the result of the vote must not be taken into account.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-919.ana.u49	The Rules of Procedure call for support, so the exception would be to ask for support for all the articles and therefore the speech is on the contrary: the exception is precisely the one we adopt to speed up the work. Therefore, since the written support in the requests must correspond to the electronic support, we will go and request the support amendment by amendment, thus coming into line with the procedure, which envisages repeating the requests from those who want the secret vote, and contesting the technical requirements of our electronic system.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-919.ana.u50	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-919.ana.u51	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-919.ana.u52	PALMA (FI-PdL XVII). Mr President, you were distracted. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. No, I'm always looking for Senators Secretary's help to monitor who's asking for the floor. PALMA (FI-PdL XVII). Mr President, it is not justified, I am absolutely certain of the attention you are giving me. Excuse me, Mr President, but I do not agree with you for the following reason. You have, in a very clear way, called for support for the secret vote with regard to Article 1 and all its amendments. With regard to this proposition, the Senate expressed its support for the request for a secret vote. Consequently, in your view, that support concerns Article 1 and all the amendments relating to Article 1; then, if Article 2 is to be changed, this is another type of problem that will be discussed later. I would add that I cannot understand what the technical problem is. When we vote normally, it often happens that Senator Santangelo kindly addresses the Presidency and says: Mr President, I would like to ask for an electronic vote with regard to all the amendments. In those cases the support is verified only once, after which we vote. I believe that the machine is always the same; I do not think that it is calibrated according to what is said in this House: what does the machine know if the next vote is secret or normal and if the support has been given? Consequently, Mr President, it seems to me that with regard to Article 1 and to the amendments to which it refers, the support has occurred, exactly as you have requested; consequently, if there is a technical problem, this must be resolved, but we cannot go against a decision of the Senate which was formed at the time when, after your proposition, we were given support for the secret vote of Article 1 and the amendments to which it refers.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-919.ana.u53	The written request for a secret vote is made in order to make it assess the eligibility of the Presidency and the Offices and the request for support for the secret vote by 20 senators has no connection with that written request. As in practice, in order to speed up the work, we have introduced the possibility of requesting electronic voting for all the amendments relating to an article, we thought we could adopt this same instrument of speeding up the vote with regard to the secret vote. As the electronic system does not allow it, we do not violate any Rules when we request the secret vote for each amendment. We have adopted a resolution before, the fact that it has already been voted does not preclude it being repeated and, moreover, there are twenty requests signed by the secret vote, so it seems to me that we can safely proceed with the vote. PALMA (FI-PdL XVII). You can't do that. FALANGA (ALA). It's wrong. [[Senator Bernini's comments.]] Let's move on. The Rules of Procedure are respected because Article 113 (4) requires the support of twenty senators for every secret vote. That is the Rules of Procedure. PALMA (FI-PdL XVII). That we hadn't respected before. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I ask the Senator Secretary to check whether the request for a secret ballot of amendment 1.2 is supported by the required number of senators. (The request is not supported.) SANTANGELO (M5S). We call for the vote to be taken by simultaneous ballot by electronic means. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous vote on Amendment 1.2 tabled by Senator Fucksia. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Amendment 1.4 (text 2) has been withdrawn. We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 1.7, on which the requested number of senators requested a secret ballot. I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). Pursuant to Rule 113 (4) of the Rules of Procedure, I refer to the secret ballot of amendment 1.7 tabled by Senator Mussini and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 1.9, on which a request for a secret ballot was made by the requested number of senators. I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). Pursuant to Rule 113 (4) of the Rules of Procedure, I refer to the secret ballot of amendment 1.9 tabled by Senator Fucksia. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 1.8, on which the requested number of senators requested a secret ballot. I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). Pursuant to Rule 113 (4) of the Rules of Procedure, I refer to the secret ballot of amendment 1.8 tabled by Senator Buemi. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment No 1.13, on which the requested number of senators has submitted a request for a secret ballot. I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). Pursuant to Rule 113 (4) of the Rules of Procedure, I refer to the secret ballot of amendment 1.13, tabled by Senator De Petris. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Amendment 1. 11 is inadmissible. We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment No 1.12, on which the requested number of senators has submitted a request for a secret ballot. I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). Pursuant to Rule 113 (4) of the Rules of Procedure, I refer to the secret ballot of amendment 1.12, tabled by Senator Mussini and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment No 1.14, on which the requested number of senators has submitted a request for a secret ballot, identical to Amendment No 1.15.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-919.ana.u54	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-919.ana.u55	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-919.ana.u56	PALMA (FI-PdL XVII). Mr President, I would like to express my personal opinion on this point, because I believe that the Group's position is different. The amendment of Senator Barani tends to delete from article 1, paragraph 1, paragraph . Art. Article 15 (3) of the proposed amendment to the Rules of Procedure only if it results from the union of groups already constituted. In other words, according to the proposed regulatory change, it would no longer be possible to set up new parliamentary groups than those originally set up, unless the new Group were to result from the conjunction of two existing groups. Senator Calderoli, in a very correct way, expressed the reason for this intervention and that is essentially to counter the transformist pathology, which - alas - has become a practice in these parliamentary classrooms. The reasoning that we are therefore obliged to make, in my opinion, is aimed at balancing between the pros and cons, in particular if it is correct to regulate the physiology of behavior through the pathology of behaviors themselves. I make two examples that do not concern - I believe - phenomena of single transformation. The Forza Italia party has been split up and has taken place a new parliamentary group: the New Right Center. Each of us can have the ideas he wants about the reasons or reasons why this Group was set up, but that is what happened. Similarly, the Democratic Party has been split, so much so that the Democratic Party has created a rib and a new Group called Article 1-MDP-LEU has been formed. We are convinced that, in both cases, the nobility of values and ideals has assisted such operations and that, in both cases, there has been no mental deviation for the research or maintenance of armchairs, but with this rule this would no longer be possible. If, for example, a party's leadership were to change the political line proposed in the election and the new political line were not to be shared by a number of parliamentarians, who would no longer find themselves there and believe that it would run counter to the electoral pact contracted with voters at the time of the elections, they would not be able to create a new political group. I believe that this, at the general democratic level, is absolutely not correct. If there are transformationists, if there are people who negotiate their values and behaviours with armchairs or other benefits, the problem of the Regulation will be to sanction those specific behaviors. But is it possible that in order to sanction those specific behaviors we are going to have such a strong impact on democracy and - let us be honest - on certain requirements of our Constitution? How can you imagine that freedom of association can be compressed by a bureaucratic rule of law? How can you imagine that the performance of parliamentary duties without a mandate can be compressed by a bureaucratic rule of law, all aimed at punishing and avoiding other types of behavior? Democracy exists as long as there is dissent and as long as dissent is voiced. [[Applause from Senator Fucksia]] When all this does not happen for the preservation of the status quo, democracy fails. Consequently, in my personal capacity, I shall be voting in favour of this amendment. [[Applause from Senators Bignami and Fucksia.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-919.ana.u57	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-919.ana.u58	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-919.ana.u59	Mr Buemi (Misto-FdV). Mr President, I had tabled an amendment which was in the same direction as the two amendments that we are considering and on which I am in favour, and I also agree with Mr Nitto Palma's assessments. I would like to add one point: you will not put in line the wishes of the individual Member of Parliament with regulatory measures. It is the policy that must bring Members together; it is the capacity for mediation; it is bringing together different positions: this teaches us our noblest political history. You can't handcuff the parliamentarians' ideas. Put such a rigid constraint on the position of ten senators and not one, two or three, who come together to play a fucking game: ten is the threshold you have set for setting up a parliamentary group. It is absolutely unacceptable that those who, after being elected in a larger reality, see a deviation from the path that led them to share, on the same political list, content and programs, decide to abandon that position in order to create a different position. I repeat: see that the history of our country is full of moments of this kind and there can be no constraints that introduce a distortion to the normal exercise of democracy. [[Applause from Senators Longo and Bignami.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-919.ana.u60	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-919.ana.u61	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-919.ana.u62	FUCKSIA (FL (Id-PL, PLI)). Mr President, I rise to endorse the amendment that I fully agree with and to invite the Senate to consider it because, Mr President, the protection of democracy comes first of all. The rigid intentions aimed at channeling guidelines that are not born even inside the Senate but outside for me prelude to dark and disturbing drifts. There have been periods of history that, as has been recalled, have produced moments of social progress and of the future and in this legislature there have been moments when some groups, even large, had found themselves in the almost disbanding and giving rise to different stories. Then, sometimes, even an event can, on the other hand, seriously affect the future. Therefore, the moral law within me leads me to say that the Rules of Procedure must be clear and unique for everyone, but above all it must express the constitutional dictation. I shall therefore vote in favour of this amendment, which I will also support. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. The Presidency takes note of this.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-919.ana.u63	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-919.ana.u64	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-919.ana.u65	BOCCHINO (Misto-SI-SEL-LEU). Mr President, I am speaking in a personal capacity. I believe that in this parliamentary term we have witnessed the transformation of political parties and not the transformation of parliamentarians, which in any case exists. [[Applause from the FL Group (Id-PL, PLI) and Senators Bignami, Mussini and Orellana]] , is a naturally present phenomenon, is widespread and must be fought. However, we witnessed the transformation of political parties: it was not in the program of the Italian coalition common good to abolish Article 18 of the so-called Workers' Statute, as it was not in the program of the 5 Star Movement to counter and depower the law on civil unions, as they did. CASTALDI (M5S). What are you talking about? AIROLA (M5S). Don't you dare! Shut your mouth! BOCCHINO (Misto-SI-SEL-LEU). For these reasons, I do not believe that giving a voice to the senators who decide to form a new Group, precisely because their political party has changed the programme and instead they have remained faithful to their ideas and values, is not a good thing for democracy and perhaps it is also in conflict - not formally, but informally - with the absence of a mandate bond, provided for in our Constitution. That is why, Mr President, I am voting in favour of this amendment. [[Applause from the FL Group (Id-PL, PLI) and Senator Bignami.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-919.ana.u66	On behalf of the Assembly, I greet the students and the students, the teachers and accompanying staff of the Istituto comprensivo "Luigi Settembrini" of Gioia Sannitica, in the province of Caserta, who are attending our work. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-919.ana.u67	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-919.ana.u68	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-919.ana.u69	FALANGA (ALA). Mr President, Senators, Senator Mazzoni, in his speech on this subject, explained what happened in 1947, when Saragat dissolved Nenni's lines and gave life to the Italian Democratic Socialist Party (PSDI), which went in a totally opposite direction and contrary to Nenni's political line of that time, within the framework of international relations. With that operation practically changed the history of our country. If that split wasn't possible, our story would probably be different. Senator Calderoli, when Senator Mazzoni recalled this position of Saragat, was distracted and, in my opinion, did not understand the sense of what we were asking. Senator Palma has made it a question of freedom and democracy, of autonomy of the mandate, and many in this House think of it in this way; what is different is transformationism. We are talking here about a group of parliamentarians who no longer share the political lines of the party's leadership and we have seen it on the right and on the left. Do we want to prevent this, and do we want to block and gag the policy that it intends to express its disagreement with the political lines of the party's leadership? I think everyone agrees with this amendment. I think that Senator Calderoli should also reflect on the contrary opinion he has expressed on this amendment. We are not talking about the transformation of the parliamentarians who change Group for the achievement of personal purposes; we are talking about a group of parliamentarians who do not share the political lines of the party in which they were elected, moreover, as was pointed out in the last speech, especially when measures are adopted that are not part of the programme that was presented to the voters. [[Applause from Senator Bignami]] So who's cheating, the parliamentarians who respect the program or the party that doesn't respect the program? [[Applause from Senator Fucksia.]] Who's turning? For these reasons, ladies and gentlemen, I would also ask you to consider and invite Senator Calderoli because we need to amend the Rules of Procedure, we agree on the amendment of the Rules of Procedure, we agree that the legislative process will become more streamlined, faster. We agree that the timing of the discussions is such that more legislative production is possible, but if we do this, then we have to compress democracy, I cannot be in it. That is why I call, for the umpteenth time, for the still distracted President Calderoli to reflect on this issue. [[Applause from Senator Bignami.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-919.ana.u70	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-919.ana.u71	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-919.ana.u72	Mr Calderoli, rapporteur. It's from the same group! D'ANNA (ALA). Mr President, I believe that in a democratic system which must take account of what the current Constitution provides, since the Italian people in this country have already twice rejected any hypothesis of reform of the Constitution, we should stand with greater adherence to the dictates and principles that are within the articles of the Constitution. If the Italian Constitution clearly states that the parliamentary mandate is free of political mortgages and that the parliamentarians respond to the nation, we could only include in the Rules of Procedure of the Senate (or any other elected chamber), the safeguarding of this principle. Only that the political debate, for some years now, in Italy is strongly influenced by political forces that use social media, by newspapers that interpret a new moral that should be salvific and revolutionary for old and old institutions both in function and in composition. In essence, Illiberal principles are passed as elements of revolutionary novelty, when instead the principles of freedom are eternal. Karl Popper says that in a democratic state it is not important to know who is in charge, that is, who has won the election; it is important to know how to control who is in charge and to control who is in charge without being succubus to the threats or flattery of those who hold the power, must be guaranteed to the controller the full freedom not to submit to other constraints that are not that of his own conscience and of the parliamentary mandate that is received in the broadest sense of the term. Every conditioning, every artifice, every surreptitious norm that bends the parliamentarians to excessive discipline and behavioral conditioning alters the relationship between the controlled and the controller. So better the fractionism than the marching in time as if we were in a barracks. I read a beautiful book titled "The Praise of the Turncoat," whose reading I would recommend to the forerunners of this new revolutionary ethic. Let's be clear, what does "voltagabbana" mean? Does it mean not submitting to the Diktats of a party that, by chance, cannot even celebrate a congress, a party that does not have a democratically drawn statute and kicks in the butt and throws out anyone who dares to ask for the decisions to be democratically assumed? [[Applause from Senator Bignami.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-919.ana.u73	Senator D'Anna, I gave you the floor, although I already spoke to Senator Falanga.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-919.ana.u74	D'ANNA (ALA). Excuse me, Mr. President. Is this being a turncoat? So let us leave the senators, the parliamentarians the greatest freedom, because that is the greatest expression of the guarantee of being able to oppose power and liberalism is nothing more than the conditioning of power. [[Applause from the ALA Group and Senators Bignami, Fucksia and Pepe.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-919.ana.u75	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-919.ana.u76	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-919.ana.u77	Orellana (Aut (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT)-PSI-MAIE). Mr President, I am speaking briefly, partly because I am also the first signatory to the next identical amendment 1.15. I would just like to make a comment, particularly in connection with what President Palma has said, on the fact that in this parliamentary term we have seen legitimate political actions, the birth of groups that then became parties also rooted in the territory. If we add to those two examples also the birth of other groups such as ALA, whose representative spoke before me, or Federation of Freedom or LAG and the 34 already present in the Mixed Group, we would have a Mixed Group of 115 people. For God's sake, perhaps this legislature, the XVII, is also an exception for the number, but I imagine that with this rule you will surely have a Mixed Group of 100 people and probably in the next parliamentary term the largest Parliamentary Group will be precisely the Mixed Group. I believe that, if so, we will also have to ask ourselves the question of how to manage the resources and times of intervention of the various, very large components of which it will be composed, because I am truly convinced that certain political actions that have been taken, beginning with the perhaps most important one, that was the split of the Group referred to President Alfano, would have taken place anyway. They were not born here because here maybe there was the Group's money (we always feed this culture of suspicion that things are always done for very venal reasons): they were political choices to run a legislature, then you may agree or not, but they were made to run a government. The same was done for a strong political dissidio of the Group of Article 1-MDP Free and Equal, because these situations would result anyway. The same groups I mentioned earlier were born for political reasons. Shall we compress? Let's do it, but we'll have a great Mixed Group. Will we have a huge advantage? I do not think that this will be an advantage for Parliament's work, and I believe that in the end we will have to put the problem, even at the highest levels of the Presidency Council, of putting our hands on the Rules of Procedure of the Mixed Group, because the current one, for example, never provides for the exchange rate, throughout the term of office, of its President. You can never change the Parent Company, while we have seen that other Groups, like what I was part of, change it every three months. If we are in Parliament going to the great Mixed Group, which will contain so many different souls, this problem will have to be posed. Later, among other things, there is an amendment tabled by Senator Mussini which raises precisely this problem. I think we should think about it. Perhaps the easiest thing would be to approve the amendment proposed by Senator Barani and myself, which is to allow the formation of new groups and not to limit them in a stronger way, or, in the alternative, to approve also the successive amendments of Senator Barani, who propose to provide a minimum number of senators for the formation of the Group, which at the beginning of the legislature is minimum of 10, as an expression of the Groups that have submitted themselves to the elections, but subsequently it becomes at least 20 or 30 (the number can then be found). However, I believe that making such a drastic cut is unacceptable. [[Applause from the Aut Group (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT) - PSI-MAIE and Senators Bignami and Mussini.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-919.ana.u78	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-919.ana.u79	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-919.ana.u80	Tarquinio (GAL (DI, GS, PPI, RI, SA)). Mr President, I am personally in favour of this amendment, but what most dismays me, with reference to this article, is the clumsy and vulgar attempt to circumvent the real problems. What is the reality? We have a sick democracy. [[Applause from Senator Fucksia]] Why are there such things? Because there are no more serious and true parties, there is no more a place of debate, there is nothing left. There are 1,000 personalisms. They left without statutes. [[Applause from the Aut Group (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT) - PSI-MAIE and Senators Bignami and Fucksia]] There's all this. Does anyone imagine that they'll get over it like that? Saying transformists to those who have different ideas. It doesn't seem to me that at other times there was this. Democracy is sick and instead of trying to cure it with respect to values and ideals, what do we do? Let's kill people who think differently, if that's understood. It is unacceptable, vulgar and shameful only to have proposed such an article. [[Applause from the GAL Group (DI, GS, PPI, RI, SA) and Senators Bignami and Fucksia.]] That's the real thing. When will this country wake up? Never? We all see a total drift. Everywhere destruction of everything: values, ideality, identity, everything. What do you expect? The end of a democracy? Don't be deceived, this can happen too, the final end. What do you expect if you do not reconstruct values and ideals? What do you expect if everyone militates in a party, because he believes in what that party must represent and has the freedom to express its opinions? There's no more of this. Since we are no longer there, we live what we live, inside and outside. We live hate politics. Therefore, Amendment 1.14 is welcome as a true answer to a problem that is and must be resolved. And those who believe in democracy and the Constitution must have this problem, already during the next election campaign. On these issues we build a real country and come out of our difficulties. [[Applause from the Group (GAL (DI, GS, PPI, RI, SA) and Senator Bignami.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-919.ana.u81	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-919.ana.u82	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-919.ana.u83	BIGNAMI (Misto-MovX). Mr President, I would like to put the amendments before us.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-919.ana.u84	I urge the Senator Secretary to check whether the request for a secret ballot is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is not supported.) SANTANGELO (M5S). We call for the vote to be taken by simultaneous ballot by electronic means. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I refer to the nominal vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1.14, tabled by Senator Barani and other senators, identical to amendment 1.15, tabled by Senator Orellana and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the vote on the first part of Amendment 1.16.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-919.ana.u85	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-919.ana.u86	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-919.ana.u87	PALMA (FI-PdL XVII). Mr President, in listening to the speeches that followed after my speech, I have raised some concerns that I would like to see represented in this House at a time when we are voting on amendments which may be corrective to such a tranchant provision. We have found that, after the establishment of a group, it is not possible to form another group. We rejected the amendment tabled by Senator Barani. Have you read the amendments to the Rules of Procedure? Do you understand what the Parent Company's powers are? Do you understand well what the Parent Company can do in terms of timetable, explanation of the amendments and inclusion of items on the agenda? And, then, I'd like to understand something. If, hypothetically, dissent were to affect the majority more than one of a parliamentary group and it was not possible to distrust the Group president, do you realize that we would be faced with a minority ruling over the majority? And, again, when everyone had to join the Mixed Group and, as Senator Orellana said, this became the first Group of the Senate and you could not be distrusted by its President, do you realize what power the new Rules would give him (currently this position is held by Senator De Petris)? But how can you allow such a thing? I'm really dismayed. You were told by Senator Tarquinio and Senator Buemi. What do you think, in the event that I disagree with my group, this rule blocks me? But he doesn't do it the absolute way: I go to the Mixed Group, with all those who think like me and I make politics there. [[Applause from Senator Bignami.]] With these rules do not stop dissent, when it is still at values. And explain to me the reason why you claim that it is transformism if twenty or thirty people leave a group and not a new and different political line. [[Comments]] In your opinion, because of what you voted before, he has no right of entry into this House. Consequently, I would urge you to reflect and then vote on one of the subsequent amendments tabled by Senator Barani, to say in essence that the senators must be at least ten or twenty, which is the number needed to set up a group. Let me give you another example, also because, I have to tell you the truth, I was talking about it with Senator Malan and we could not explain it: if thirty senators join the Mixed Group, they most likely take command of it, as is evident, regardless of being opposition or majority, with all that follows on the appointments of the Presidents of the Commissions of Guarantees and so on. The question is as follows. The Mixed Group is a Group, so can it form a new one or not? Explain to me the whole set of rules. Consequently, I think that, having not voted on Senator Barani's previous amendment, it would be a good and wise thing, as they say, to vote at least one of the following ones, at your choice.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-919.ana.u88	I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request for a secret vote is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). Pursuant to Rule 113 (4) of the Rules of Procedure, I refer to the secret ballot of the first part of Amendment 1,16, tabled by Senator Barani and other senators, up to the words "Sian" at least. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). The remaining part and amendments 1,17, 1,18 and 1,19 are therefore not included. We shall now proceed to the vote on amendment 1.21, on which the requested number of senators has submitted a request for a secret ballot. I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). Pursuant to Rule 113 (4) of the Rules of Procedure, I refer to the secret ballot of amendment 1.21, tabled by Senator Mussini and other senators. (The vote was followed). I declare the result of the secret ballot: [[Senators present 217 Majority 108 Favorables 49 Contrari 166 Absent 1]] The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). CREAM. (M5S). Mr President, the screen is blocked. PRESIDENT. - The debate is Wait a minute, let's see if it unlocks. Not being accustomed to all these secret vows one after the other, even machines have a level of endurance. [[Laughter.]] I call on the Committee on the Rules of Procedure to give its opinion on the requests for reformulation that have been tabled. I therefore suspend the sitting, which will resume at the end of the meeting of the Committee on the Rules of Procedure. (The sitting was suspended at 12.16 p.m. and resumed at 12.53 p.m.) The session is resumed. I recall that we had come to the examination of amendment 1.22. I would ask the rapporteur whether he intends to report on the meeting of the Committee on the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-919.ana.u89	Mr President, the Junta intended to comply with the attitude it took at previous sittings, that is, even in the face of the rewordings proposed in this House, since there was no complete convergence in the Junta, it was decided to withdraw the proposals for rewording and return to the opinion expressed at first reading. I therefore recall the amendments that had been proposed for reformulation. On Amendment 1.24, instead of rewording, it is called for to be transformed into an agenda in the examination of the Senate budget and also on Amendment 1.26, the text returns to the original text and therefore the opinion is against it. On Amendment 2.4 the opinion also goes against, because there is no longer any rewording. Then there is a variation, not a rewording, but the opinion arrived yesterday on an amendment, which remained the same: I am referring to Amendment 2.5, on which the opinion appears to be in favour.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-919.ana.u90	We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 1.22, on which the requested number of senators has submitted a request for a secret ballot. I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. [[Senator Fucksia points out that she wants to intervene. The request is not supported]] SANTANGELO (M5S). We call for the vote to be taken by simultaneous ballot by electronic means. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported).
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-919.ana.u91	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-919.ana.u92	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-919.ana.u93	FUCKSIA (FL (Id-PL, PLI)). Mr President, I would like to ask for a split vote. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. It is late, Senator Fucksia, we are already in the process of voting. You should have asked first. FUCKSIA (FL (Id-PL, PLI)). I raised my hand first. She didn't listen to me.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-919.ana.u94	The split vote is also asked first to give the Offices and the Presidency the opportunity to examine the request. I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1.22, tabled by Senator Fucksia. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment No 1.23, on which the requested number of senators has submitted a request for a secret ballot. I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is not supported.) SANTANGELO (M5S). We call for the vote to be taken by simultaneous ballot by electronic means. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1.23, tabled by Senator Bottici and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). Senator Bottici, do you accept the rapporteur's invitation to turn amendment 1.24 into an agenda?
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-919.ana.u95	Mr President, I am not going to turn Amendment 1.24 into an agenda and I am going to ask for a split vote. Let me also explain the two points: paragraph 10-a gives the Presidency the opportunity to regulate the analytical reporting of the expenditure incurred and the return to the Senate budget of the non-spent quota. Since refunds are lump sums, i.e. if I spend I am entitled to them otherwise I cannot obtain them, if it were otherwise it would be a payment in black and also, let's say, a form of tax evasion. Since we are talking here so much about countering evasion and since this money is not taxed, then it must be returned. If you don't spend it, return it. This concerns paragraph 10-a. Paragraph 10b gives the Presidency the power to lay down the terms and procedures for the remuneration and management of the senators' collaborators. We have seen the scandals that have occurred in this parliamentary term that do not highlight us and do not bring citizens closer to politics. And then the MP's collaborator is hired through the Senate apparatus but the total expenditure is reduced by lump sums. This is the right attitude, not always trying to hide what we do with public money. I therefore call for a split vote on the two points.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-919.ana.u96	Senator Bottici, I would like to point out to you that Rule 16-a, on which you are responsible as the Quaestors, concerns the accounting and financial management of parliamentary groups, while this amendment concerns the competences of the Presidency Council. I would like to confirm this discrepancy with Article 16-a. Perhaps you intended to refer to Article 12? BOTTICS (M5S). We can also put it in Article 12. I have no problem with that, but it is essential to set principles. PRESIDENT. - The debate is The amendment would therefore amend Article 12. BOTTICS (M5S). Instead of Article 16-a, Article 12 should be amended. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. You add two paragraphs to Article 12, right? BOTTICS (M5S). Yeah, two commas. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. The House must then decide by show of hands whether to allow the split vote. I put the motion for a separate vote to the vote. It's not approved. We shall therefore proceed to the vote on Amendment No 1.24 (correct text), on which the requested number of senators has submitted a request for a secret ballot. I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is not supported.) SANTANGELO (M5S). We call for the vote to be taken by simultaneous ballot by electronic means. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1.24 (text 2), tabled by Senator Bottici and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the vote on amendment 1.25, on which the requested number of senators has submitted a request for a secret ballot. I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is not supported.) SANTANGELO (M5S). We call for the vote to be taken by simultaneous ballot by electronic means. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1.25, tabled by Senator Fucksia. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 1,26, on which the requested number of senators has requested a secret ballot. I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is not supported.) SANTANGELO (M5S). We call for the vote to be taken by simultaneous ballot by electronic means. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I refer to the nominal vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1.26, tabled by Senator Battista and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment No 1.27, on which the requested number of senators has submitted a request for a secret ballot. I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). Pursuant to Rule 113 (4) of the Rules of Procedure, I refer to the secret ballot of amendment 1.27, tabled by Senator Fucksia. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Senator Tronti has already agreed to turn amendment 1.0.1 into an agenda for the internal budget. We shall now proceed to the examination of Article 2, on which amendments have already been tabled and on which I invite the rapporteur to give his opinion.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-919.ana.u97	I am against Amendments 2.1, 2.2, 2.4 (original wording), 2.20, 2.7 2.8, 2.11, 2.12 and 2.14. I also call for the withdrawal of Amendment 2.9. I am in favour of amendments 2.3, 2.5, 2.6 (text 2), 2100 and 2.15 (with drafting corrections already discussed in yesterday's sitting). Amendment 2.16 should be absorbed by the adoption of amendment 2.15.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-919.ana.u98	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-919.ana.u99	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-919.ana.u100	CANDIANI (LN-Aut). Mr President, I would just like to ask you a point of order, because as we are noticing and as other Members will be aware, it is not exactly the same as the adoption of a legal text, because the amendments are voted on, but there is no final vote on the whole. There is not even a final vote on the article. Will he be there later? BERNINI (FI-PdL XVII). In the end! CANDIANI (LN-Aut). On that will be the final explanations of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-919.ana.u101	Senator Candiani, before moving to the vote on the articles, there will be an opportunity to make a total explanation of vote. CANDIANI (LN-Aut). Thank you. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 2.1, on which the requested number of senators requested a secret ballot. I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is not supported.) SANTANGELO (M5S). We call for the vote to be taken by simultaneous ballot by electronic means. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported).
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-919.ana.u102	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-919.ana.u103	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-919.ana.u104	FLORIS (FI-PdL XVII). Mr President, I withdraw Amendment 2.1.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-919.ana.u105	It means that we will support Senator Mussini's first-signed amendment 2.2. I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of Amendment 2.2, tabled by Senator Mussini and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 2.20, on which the requested number of senators requested a secret ballot. I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). Pursuant to Rule 113 (4) of the Rules of Procedure, I refer to the secret ballot of amendment 2.20, tabled by Senator Mussini and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 2.3, on which the requested number of senators has submitted a request for a secret ballot. I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). Pursuant to Rule 113 (4) of the Rules of Procedure, I refer to the secret ballot of Amendment 2.3 tabled by Senator Malan. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment No 2.4, on which the requested number of senators has submitted a request for a secret ballot.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-919.ana.u106	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-919.ana.u107	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-919.ana.u108	COCIANCICH (PD). Mr President, I would like to ask the rapporteur for clarification, because just now, in the course of the debate we had in the course of the amendment, he proposed amendments to the text of amendment 2.4, which I accepted, while a few minutes ago he expressed the opposite opinion, that is, at the end of the day, against himself.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-919.ana.u109	Senator Cociancich, it is the Council for the Rules of Procedure that gives its opinions. The rapporteur is the one who expresses the resolution of the Committee on the Rules of Procedure. The Committee on the Rules of Procedure has returned to the deliberations it had already taken with regard to the proposal for a rewording tabled by the rapporteur. I repeat, the Committee on the Rules of Procedure decides and the rapporteur is a spokesperson for its decisions.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-919.ana.u110	Thank you, Mr President, but since there has been a debate anyway, I would ask the rapporteur - or the Junta - kindly why there has been a change of opinion. We have discussed this and I think it is right that this House should know the reasons why there has been a change of opinion.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-919.ana.u111	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-919.ana.u112	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-919.ana.u113	Mr Calderoli, rapporteur. Mr President, I speak very quickly. Clearly, Senator Cociancich was not here when I motivated the attitude of the Committee on the Rules of Procedure. Since there was no unanimity within the Council, the Junta decided to withdraw all the proposed rewordings, returning to the basic text, on which the opinion was expressed yesterday, i.e. contrary.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-919.ana.u114	On behalf of the Assembly, greeting students, students, teachers and companions of the Liceo scientifico, linguistico, classico statale "Enrico Medi" in Battipaglia, in the province of Salerno, who follow our works. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-919.ana.u115	I urge the Senator Secretary to check whether the request for a secret ballot is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is not supported.) SANTANGELO (M5S). We call for the vote to be taken by simultaneous ballot by electronic means. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 2.4, tabled by Senator Cociancich and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 2,100 (text 2), on which the requested number of senators has submitted a request for a secret ballot. I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). Pursuant to Rule 113 (4) of the Rules of Procedure, I refer to the secret ballot of amendment 2,100 (text 2) tabled by the rapporteur. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). Amendment 2.30 is not possible. We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment No 2.5, on which the requested number of senators has submitted a request for a secret ballot. I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is not supported.) SANTANGELO (M5S). We call for the vote to be taken by simultaneous ballot by electronic means. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 2.5, tabled by Senator Orellana and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). As it has been approved, I would like to inform you that coordination will be necessary, so we will have to vote on a coordination rule. We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 2.6 (text 2), on which the requested number of senators has submitted a request for a secret ballot. I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is not supported.) SANTANGELO (M5S). We call for the vote to be taken by simultaneous ballot by electronic means. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 2.6 (text 2), tabled by Senator Santangelo and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 2.7, on which the requested number of senators requested a secret ballot. I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is not supported.) SANTANGELO (M5S). We call for the vote to be taken by simultaneous ballot by electronic means. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of Amendment 2.7, tabled by Senator Fucksia. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). On Amendment 2.9, a withdrawal request has been made, and I ask the presenter if he will accept it. BUCCARELLA (M5S). I'll withdraw it, Mr. President. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 2.8, on which the requested number of senators has submitted a request for a secret ballot. I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is not supported.) SANTANGELO (M5S). We call for the vote to be taken by simultaneous ballot by electronic means. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous vote on Amendment 2.8 tabled by Senator Fucksia. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Amendment 2.10 has been withdrawn. We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 2.11.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-919.ana.u116	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-919.ana.u117	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-919.ana.u118	MALAN (FI-PdL XVII). Mr President, I shall withdraw it together with the following, on 2.12.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-919.ana.u119	Amendments 2.13, 2.40 and 2.31 have been withdrawn. We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 2.14, on which the requested number of senators requested a secret ballot. I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is not supported.) SANTANGELO (M5S). We call for the vote to be taken by simultaneous ballot by electronic means. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 2.14, tabled by Senator Orellana and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment No 2.15 (text 2) on which the requested number of senators has submitted a request for a secret ballot. I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is not supported.) SANTANGELO (M5S). We call for the vote to be taken by simultaneous ballot by electronic means. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 2.15 (text 2), tabled by Senator Cociancich and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). Amendment 2.16 is therefore incorporated. We shall now proceed to the examination of Article 3, on which amendments have already been tabled and on which I invite the rapporteur to give his opinion.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-919.ana.u120	Mr President, I am against Amendment 3.1. With regard to Amendment 3.2, I would like to take this opportunity, given that the proposal was presented by Senator Mario Mauro, to point out that we have (or rather, I personally have done so) voted against a constitutional reform which provided for the abolition of the CNEL. Well, I believe that the only point where all Italians would have voted yes to the reform would have been the abolition of CNEL. Having not obtained it by constitutional means, at least the CNEL ceases to exist in our Rules of Procedure, with the indication of taking a later step in the constitutional reform. Therefore, the opinion on amendment 3.2, which would re-introduce it, is against it. I call on the presenter to withdraw amendment 3.4. I also object to Amendments 3.3, 3.5, 3.6 and 3.7. The opinion supports the rewording of amendment 3.8 contained in the annex. I am against Amendments 3.11, 3.10 and 3.12. The opinion was in favour of the rapporteur's amendment 3,100 (text 3) and opposed to 3,13, 3,15 and 3,17. I am in favour of Amendment 3.18 in the reformulation proposed yesterday by the Junta, while the opinion is against Amendments 3.19 and 3.20. The opinion was in favour of rewording 3.21 and against 3.23. I call on the proposers to withdraw Amendment 3.0.1 because it involves the other branch of Parliament.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-919.ana.u121	Amendment 3.1 is not possible. We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 3.2, on which the requested number of senators has submitted a request for a secret ballot. I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is not supported.) SANTANGELO (M5S). We call for the vote to be taken by simultaneous ballot by electronic means. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous vote on Amendment 3.2 tabled by Senator Mauro Mario. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 3.4, on which the requested number of senators has submitted a request for a secret ballot.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-919.ana.u122	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-919.ana.u123	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-919.ana.u124	MALAN (FI-PdL XVII). Mr President, I welcome the rapporteur's invitation and withdraw the amendment to avoid achieving the opposite effect because the House would obviously reject it. In fact, I think that the article will be interpreted as if it were written "normally" because if you interpret it in a rigid way, as the current text requires (i.e. without the specific "normally" text), it would mean that it is impossible, even if the unanimity of the Groups or senators decides it, to do more than two weeks of Assembly work per month. It does not seem to me a realistic approach, so I am sure that the article will still be applied as if it had been written in it as a rule. As this will be done, it would be good if it had been written to us, but I withdraw the amendment in order to avoid further contradiction.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-919.ana.u125	We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 3.3, on which the requested number of senators has submitted a request for a secret ballot. I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is not supported.) SANTANGELO (M5S). We call for the vote to be taken by simultaneous ballot by electronic means. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by a simultaneous vote on Amendment 3.3 tabled by Senator Fucksia. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 3.5, on which the requested number of senators requested a secret ballot. I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is not supported.) SANTANGELO (M5S). We call for the vote to be taken by simultaneous ballot by electronic means. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 3.5, tabled by Senator Orellana and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 3.6.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-919.ana.u126	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-919.ana.u127	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-919.ana.u128	MALAN (FI-PdL XVII). Mr President, I shall withdraw it.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-919.ana.u129	We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 3.7, on which the requested number of senators has submitted a request for a secret ballot. I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is not supported.) SANTANGELO (M5S). We call for the vote to be taken by simultaneous ballot by electronic means. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous vote on Amendment 3.7 tabled by Senator Fucksia. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Amendment 3.9 has been withdrawn. We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 3.8 (text 3).
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-919.ana.u130	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-919.ana.u131	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-919.ana.u132	PALMA (FI-PdL XVII). Mr President, I spoke on this particular point and it seems that my speech was in turn, as it is legitimate, criticized by the rapporteur in his reply. On the basis of this amendment, for specific reasons, including those related to the lactation of children, the Presidency Council may decide on derogations. In other words, in a completely different form, it is said that infants can be admitted to the Chamber in order to allow their mothers to proceed to breast-feeding in the Chamber. Personally, I believe that the advertising of such an intimate act by the woman should perhaps be avoided, especially if the woman does not make a specific request for it. I would add that, if such a rule were to be included in the Rules of Procedure, Mother would inevitably be faced with an alternative, that is to say, to breast-feed in the Chamber even if her sensitivity, hypothetically, should not be to do so, that is to say to vote, because she can well vote by breast-feeding in this House. In the junta for the Rules of Procedure, in a much wiser way, it had been imagined that this specific requirement of women could be met through the suspension of work as long as it is sufficient.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-919.ana.u133	Excuse me if I interrupt you, Senator Palma, I do not think you have in mind the text 3 of Amendment 3.8, which is in the annex, which has already amended this wording of the amendment. Article 70 would be amended as follows: ==References====External links== In paragraph 1, the following period is added: "For specific needs, including those related to the lactation of children, the Presidency Council may decide on derogations" (i.e. derogations). In general derogations, the House may also be allowed to stop breast-feeding. It has been generalized in this way in order to allow discretion in relation also to the availability of mothers or even fathers, because there is a problem of equal breast-feeding rights.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-919.ana.u134	If I am not mistaken, however, Mr President, does paragraph 1 not refer to the ban on minors entering the Chamber? Paragraph 1 of Rule 70 speaks of this. Which are the reasons why the derogation should be? That of allowing the minor to enter the Chamber for specific needs, even related to breast-feeding. So, if we are to say the whole thing, there has been an increase in the case-law for which the entry of minors into the Chamber is possible. Personally, Mr President, I believe that work can be suspended and, consequently, Mother - or Dad, in the case of artificial lactation - can be breast-feeding separately. Mr President, I have two problems, but I am serious about it: are we sure that it corresponds to the health needs of the child to bring the child into this House and to breast-feed with senators who, hypothetically, can be cooled or have other problems? [[Brusio. Comments of the M5S Group.]] Excuse me, colleagues, please, Senator Santangelo.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-919.ana.u135	Please, colleagues.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-919.ana.u136	PALMA (FI-PdL XVII). I therefore put the second problem and, as I said, I put it in very serious terms. Since someone fills his mouth with chasteness and privileges a lot. Mr President, is it possible, for example, to breast-feed your child in an institutional chamber while a criminal trial is being held? Is it allowed for any other type of work? Would that not be a strong derogation, Mr President? Imagine you, who have experience of those classrooms, whether in the context of a criminal trial or, if you want, of crime, at some point the chairman of the college or the prosecutor were breast-feeding. With all respect for motherhood, I believe that it is more respectful of women and paternity to suspend work and allow women, separately, to breast-feed or meet specific needs. From this point of view, it is not necessary to include this rule in the Rules of Procedure, because this, as has always been, will be entrusted to the sensitivity of the President or the Vice-President in turn.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-919.ana.u137	In fact, in the debate in Giunta, the opportunity for the President, regardless of the possibility of derogations, to solve the problem with common sense, with the agreement of the recipients, then of the mother or father who has this need, especially in the case of voting that last continuously, such as what we are doing.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-919.ana.u138	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-919.ana.u139	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-919.ana.u140	BIGNAMI (Misto-MovX). Mr President, I did not want to speak, but it is my duty here, because the piece is even worse than the hole, as they say. First of all, I would like to reflect on what breast-feeding is: it is an intimate thing, where the primary is not who should vote, but who should eat. [[Applause from Senator Palma]] How do you eat in an environment like that? No way. This is an absolute lack of respect for the infant or the infant (call it whatever you want, so much so now I have cleared everything in this legislature). [[Applause from the FL Group (Id-PL, PLI).]] Secondly, with this definition, if I were to be re-elected, I should have a little place next door for my disabled son, because here there is a scenario: so the caregiver should also be allowed for those over 95 years of age and who do not walk. Are you kidding me? What are we talking about? [[Applause from the Mixed Group, LN-Aut and FL (Id-PL, PLI)]] It is truly an absolute lack of respect for two aspects: first of the very intimate act that exists between the mother and the child during breast-feeding, and second of the right of the child to have five minutes with the mother. In addition - because I really want to make you laugh - I add that here it seems that no one has ever been a parent: 80% of the children, after breastfeeding, make poop. So what do we do, leave the baby with the poop all the time, or maybe it's better for Mom to go out and change the baby? [[Applause from the PD, Mixed and LN-Aut groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-919.ana.u141	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-919.ana.u142	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-919.ana.u143	Mr Buemi (Misto-FdV). Mr President, my colleague has already dealt with the subject in terms of 'organizational' terms. On the other hand, I want to raise another problem: what is the use of this amendment? [[Applause from Senator Bignami.]] This amendment is intended to activate media processes that need to enhance a political position. [[Applause from Senator Bignami.]] Since we use political correctness, we use a minor, an extremely intimate and natural situation to campaign. On the other hand, I think it is more appropriate to give the mother the opportunity to perform her mother's function by suspending the work of this House for a few minutes. But there is another issue and I refer back to the previous amendments. Have you put handcuffs on colleagues who would like to leave their group, prevent them from exercising autonomous political activity and raise the problem of breast-feeding the individual colleague and do you not want to give her a quarter of an hour's space? [[Applause from Senators Bignami and Fucksia]] Do we want to be serious or should we continue with this hypocrisy that has fueled these five years of parliamentary life? [[Applause from Senator Fucksia.]] You want to make reforms that are not such, we could have made the amendment of this regulation at the beginning of the parliamentary term and we do it at the end, we have modified our Constitution to submit it to the Italians and we have received a solemn bang. [[Comments of Senator Crimes]] And we still want to keep teasing the Italians with these manfriends, who have nothing serious? [[Comments of Senator Airola]] You cannot turn the Sacred House of the Senate or the House into a nursery! [[Applause from Senator Fucksia.]] We have to stay serious! You've already turned it into a tavern, you've uncracked champagne, you've eaten mortadella, you've pulled Regulations: but aren't we ashamed to get to these extremes? No one wants to prevent the proper and natural exercise of motherhood, but let's not transform this function into the usual manifestation from jumping! [[Applause from the Mixed and FL Groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-919.ana.u144	Senator Buemi, allow me to speak on one point. Do not forget that we have come to the end because there has been a constitutional reform which included so many of these changes and which has not been approved by the people, and so we are now trying to provide for those parts on which we can intervene with the amendment of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-919.ana.u145	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-919.ana.u146	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-919.ana.u147	Gasparri (FI-PdL XVII). Mr President, initially this amendment seemed interesting to me because, after voting in this House a little bit of everything - we said that civil union was something else than marriage, with stepchild adoption we almost risked to legislate on what I called the sale of children and we voted on a questionable law on the end of life, that I believe has a euthanasia drift - in the face of a proposal that concerns the lactation of a child, that is exactly the opposite of the things we voted, I was almost tempted to vote in favour, because it is one thing for life: what is more natural than a mother that feeds the child? Breast-feeding can't be done, because according to the end-of-life law artificial hydration and nutrition are a health treatment. [[Comments]] That's right. That's what you voted for.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-919.ana.u148	Senator, stick to the theme.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-919.ana.u149	Gasparri (FI-PdL XVII). More relevant to the theme of this! PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. He was dealing with the end of his life. We are for life, to breastfeed children, not for the end of life. Gasparri (FI-PdL XVII). I would have been tempted to support this proposal because it is basically breast-feeding, beyond the place, and Senator Buemi has gone a little too far, because comparing breast-feeding with mortadella is not appropriate (let me say so). That demonstration, even if it happened on benches I attended, is not the same thing. However, since the intent becomes instrumentalized and transforms, I have personally reflected and therefore will not participate in the vote. I say, however: better life than euthanasia, better breastfeeding than the sale of children! [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-919.ana.u150	I would like to draw the House's attention to the fact that there are more general derogations: in the course of the debate - in order to take note of what was discussed in the Junta - people with disabilities who may need an accompaniment or an exit from the House while work is under way have also been considered. So the derogations concern not only that hypothesis, but also others of this kind. Now I do not want to express any opinion, just to give an account of a debate that took place in Junta.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-919.ana.u151	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-919.ana.u152	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-919.ana.u153	Mr Bencini (Misto-Idv). Mr President, I find nothing wrong with the fact that you can breast-feed a baby. But the point that makes me think is that it is not allowed to other simple workers, even in the public administration, during their working hours to bring and breast-feed a child. I work in the O.R. and I'm not allowed to put myself in a room during working hours to breastfeed children. I had two children and nursed them during the first three months of compulsory maternity. When I got back to work, no matter how much milk they took, I didn't have a chance. I was allowed, however, as many working women, to enter an hour later and leave work an hour earlier because there is breastfeeding. Already here we are in self-declaration, however we are considered very privileged for a series of prerogatives that we have and other workers do not have, I do not think it is right that Mother should bring the child to the Chamber at the time of her work. [[Applause from Senators Bignami and Rizzotti.]] You can safely breast-feed your baby, subtracting that time from work, without necessarily suspending the Assembly or anything else and you can decide to organize breastfeeding, as the other workers do, an hour before and an hour later. I mean, it's a plan. This out of respect for those who work and do not have this possibility, because the children are all the same, born from the worker and born from the senator. [[Applause from the PD, FI-PdL XVII and Mixed Groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-919.ana.u154	I urge the Senator Secretary to check whether the request for a secret ballot is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). Pursuant to Rule 113 (4) of the Rules of Procedure, I refer to the secret ballot of amendment 3.8 (text 3) tabled by Senator Serra and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment No 3.11, on which the requested number of senators has submitted a request for a secret ballot. I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is not supported.) SANTANGELO (M5S). We call for the vote to be taken by simultaneous ballot by electronic means. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 3.11, tabled by Senator Fucksia. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 3.10. MALAN (FI-PdL XVII). Mr President, I shall withdraw it.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-919.ana.u155	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-919.ana.u156	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-919.ana.u157	CRIMI (M5S). Mr President, what happened just now, when the House voted against a common sense rule, which was not so overwhelming with regard to the Senate Rules of Procedure, leaves me somewhat perplexed. So far we have worked towards a sharing of intentions, with a working group that has worked well, with a Council for the Rules of Procedure that has found maximum sharing, avoiding to face divisive topics. On the other hand, we have arrived at the time of voting on a question which was simple and which had also been watered down, in order to allow maximum flexibility and satisfy a need that a mother has because, unfortunately, the father this beautiful moment of his relationship with his son is not allowed, and it is not allowed because it is said that the sitting of the Chamber must be suspended. But this wasn't put on either! [[Comments from the PD Group]] CANTINI (PD). It's already been voted!
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-919.ana.u158	Senator Crimes, this is a prerogative of the President: all emergencies are assessed by the President. We have already voted on this amendment. [[Senator Santangelo's comments.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-919.ana.u159	Mr President, I can tell you quite frankly that this was the time for me to break a balance that had been reached on the proposed amendment to the Rules of Procedure in our examination. That is why I say - and I say this clearly to all those who voted against the amendment - that it was perhaps one of the most common and shared things that could be in there, compared to so many other changes on which we had to accept fallen points in order to move forward on a reform and to make the Senate work more efficient. I say this in the light of the work that has been done so far. [[Applause from Senator Moronese.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-919.ana.u160	We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment No 3.12, on which the requested number of senators has submitted a request for a secret ballot. I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). Pursuant to Rule 113 (4) of the Rules of Procedure, I refer to the secret ballot of amendment 3.12, tabled by Senator Fucksia. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 3,100 (text 2), on which the requested number of senators has submitted a request for a secret ballot. I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). Pursuant to Rule 113 (4) of the Rules of Procedure, I refer to the secret ballot of Amendment 3,100 (text 3) tabled by the rapporteur. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 3.13 Orellana (Aut (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT)-PSI-MAIE). I'm gonna drop it, ma'am. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Amendments 3.13 and 3.14 have been withdrawn. Amendment 3.30 is not possible. We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment No 3.15 on which a request for a secret ballot was made by the requested number of senators. I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). Pursuant to Rule 113 (4) of the Rules of Procedure, I refer to the secret ballot of amendment 3.15 tabled by Senator Mauro Mario. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Amendment 3.16 has been withdrawn. We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment No 3.17, on which the requested number of senators has submitted a request for a secret ballot. I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). Pursuant to Rule 113 (4) of the Rules of Procedure, I refer to the secret ballot of amendment 3,17 tabled by Senator Malan. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment No 3.18, in the reworded text, on which the requested number of senators has submitted a request for a secret ballot.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-919.ana.u161	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-919.ana.u162	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-919.ana.u163	PALMA (FI-PdL XVII). Mr President, if possible, I would like to know the rewording.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-919.ana.u164	I read in full the text of the rewording of amendment 3.18: "In paragraph 1, paragraph "Art. 100...., paragraph 9, replace the words from: The amendments tabled shall not exceed ten minutes with the following: On all the amendments tabled to the same article, including those proposing to insert a new one after it or to introduce one to the first one, a single debate takes place, beginning with the illustration by only one of the presenters, who can intervene once for no more than five minutes, rising to ten if it is the Group's only intervention. Further intervention by no more than one senator per group for no more than five minutes is permitted. I therefore ask the Senator Secretary to check whether the request for a secret ballot is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). Pursuant to Rule 113 (4) of the Rules of Procedure, I refer to the secret ballot of Amendment 3.18 (text 2) tabled by Senator Malan. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment No 3.19, on which the requested number of senators has submitted a request for a secret ballot. I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). Pursuant to Rule 113 (4) of the Rules of Procedure, I refer to the secret ballot of amendment 3.19 tabled by Senators Battista and Orellana. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 3.20, on which the requested number of senators has submitted a request for a secret ballot. I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). Pursuant to Rule 113 (4) of the Rules of Procedure, I refer to the secret ballot of amendment 3.20 tabled by Senator Barani and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 3.21 (text 2), on which the requested number of senators has submitted a request for a secret ballot. I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). Pursuant to Rule 113 (4) of the Rules of Procedure, I refer to the secret ballot of Amendment 3.21 (text 2) tabled by Senator Malan. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment No 3.23, on which the requested number of senators has submitted a request for a secret ballot.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-919.ana.u165	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-919.ana.u166	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-919.ana.u167	MALAN (FI-PdL XVII). Mr President, the amendment has only been tabled on matters of logical wording. I am of the opinion that saying that the President, if he wishes, can, in principle, make little sense: either he wants or he does not want to. If the President considers that it is appropriate to carry out the vote by electronic means, he shall do so; if he does not, he shall not do so. Adding 'ordinarily' seems to me to be superfluous, especially since it was not in the original rule. I'm gonna put this down. It does not change anything, whether the amendment passes, or does not pass: the President if he wants, he does; if he does not want, he does not. I simply propose to remove two words that make no sense.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-919.ana.u168	I urge the Senator Secretary to check whether the request for a secret ballot is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). Pursuant to Rule 113 (4) of the Rules of Procedure, I refer to the secret ballot of amendment 3.23, tabled by Senator Malan. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 3.0.1.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-919.ana.u169	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-919.ana.u170	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-919.ana.u171	BUCCARELLA (M5S). Mr President, the amendment, as we know, did not have the opportunity to have the unique consent of the Junta because there was the problem of the necessary coordination of the provision with similar regulation of the House. We speak of the necessity, which we have repeatedly represented, of the homogeneity of the draft laws under consideration, especially those of conversion into law of the decrees-laws. Several times during this parliamentary term, we have suffered and the House and Parliament have had to swallow legislative productions of government origin with completely uneven decree-laws. Each of us has the memory of these strangled votes and of the way in which Parliament was forced, perhaps by a vote of confidence, to adopt absolutely different and non-homogeneous regulations. We note that it has not been possible in this part-session to try to regulate this vulnus of the legislative activity, not already wanting to make disrespects to those who by Constitution are the ones who sign and sign and assume the political responsibility of the decree-laws (speaking of the Presidency of the Republic). In fact, our amending proposal provided for the removal of the non-homogeneous parts where we intended, by excluding them, by recovering the technical significance, the autonomous composition of the deleted part of a special bill. We did not want to block a normative process, nor did we want to put the President of the Senate or the Chamber, in the case of the Chamber, in opposition to the President of the Republic. We note that this was not possible. We regret this and therefore withdraw the amendment.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-919.ana.u172	We have completed the examination of the amendments because the amendments to Article 4 are additional and must be voted by an absolute majority with the articles. I therefore propose a pause. We shall resume at 3 p.m. with the explanations of vote as a whole on all the articles and then the votes. I'm suspending the session. (The sitting was suspended at 1.51 p.m. and resumed at 3.06 p.m.) Let's resume our work. We will now have to proceed to the vote on the articles and amendments aimed at adding additional articles for which, pursuant to Rule 167 (5) of the Rules of Procedure, an absolute majority of the members of the Senate is required. I would point out, however, that the votes for which an absolute majority is required are final resolutions, and therefore, when the vote is over, the final vote on the document as a whole will not be taken. As has already been announced, before we put to the vote the individual articles and amendments aimed at adding additional articles, let us move on to the overall explanations of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-919.ana.u173	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-919.ana.u174	Even if you have already anticipated your explanation of vote, you have the floor again to be able to complete it. I therefore have the floor.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-919.ana.u175	MAZZONI (ALA). Mr President, I shall be very brief. I would like to recall Article 67 of the Constitution, which reads: Each Member of Parliament shall represent the Nation and shall exercise his or her duties without a mandate. The Constituents, therefore, established the prohibition of an imperative mandate: a principle that is considerably weakened, if not contradicted, by the new Rules of Procedure of the Senate. I mentioned earlier, in the illustration of the amendments, some political events that have caused even dramatic divisions, marking in positive and negative the history of our country. I think it is useful, however, to project for a moment the new Rules of Procedure in the next parliamentary term, the 18th. I start from the consideration that we have an electoral law that provides for the election of senators in part on party lists and in part in single-member colleges in a coalition. Since all the polls indicate that it will be difficult for a homogeneous majority to emerge from the polls in relation to the three major elections, I wonder what will happen if a party which has presented itself with a joint programme at the centre-right or centre-left then decides to open negotiations and make a coalition with an opposing party or coalition. In this case, if thirty or forty senators do not agree with the new determinations of their party, they will all be forced to join a party that has presented itself with them in coalition or the Mixed Group. I wonder whether this is right and whether it is legitimate for a regulation to weaken the prohibition of a mandatory mandate, in disregard of the constitutional dictation which, on the other hand, states it.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-919.ana.u176	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-919.ana.u177	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-919.ana.u178	CANDIANI (LN-Aut). Mr President, it is with some satisfaction that we are now taking part in the basically final vote, even though there will not be a single vote on the whole measure as if it were a draft law, and that is something that I consider paradoxical but also exemplary in itself. The Senate, which had been identified by the then president of the Council of Ministers and current head of PD Matteo Renzi as the old part of our constitutional order, the one to be replaced because slow and farraginosa, not only was it not then, but it is even less so after this amendment of the Rules that the Senate approves - I believe I can anticipate - with a very large majority. This means that much of the reality that is described outside does not correspond to reality. Mr President, as you will be able to confirm, the average is already today that, of the sixty days that the Constitution assigns to Parliament for the conversion into law of decree-laws, fifteen, twenty days are on average used by the Senate and all the others by the House of Deputies. Now - I am referring to the last few hours - with the draft budget law we are experiencing the drunkenness of the parliamentary passage to the House of Deputies. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group.]] What needs to be highlighted? First of all, the work done by the Council for the Rules of Procedure, which has been kept quiet for a long period, but which, in this last phase, has shown how there are not only the experience in the people who make up it, but also the ability to lead the regulatory change in port - allow me to address, in this sense, a particular appreciation to Senator Calderoli, who is also rapporteur - having well in mind the positive solicitation made at the beginning of the legislature by the parent Zanda in a session of the Senate, when he highlighted his particular ability to conduct the Rules of Procedure of this branch of Parliament by the hand. Mr President, the fact that we have reached the end of the parliamentary term is not for me a vulnus, as someone would like it to be, but it is - indeed - the right approach that this House, which is about to end the parliamentary term, must have in relation to the future. An innovative Regulation will be left, which provides, in its passages, for a further shortening of the modalities of defining the laws, even reaching the assignment, as a rule, in the decision-making session in the Commission. Not only that, I am very pleased that some passages here have been contested by someone, because they correspond to a reduction in the risk of transformation, which - unfortunately - has characterized much of the path of this legislature. The rules provided for will certainly guarantee citizens that the groups that are voted on in the elections will not be able to undergo genetic transformations, until they multiply to the umpteenth power in Parliament, even with a significant reduction and reduction of the costs associated with them. Let us never forget that the political party in its institution is recognized by the Constitution and that each of us receives votes to represent the people within a political group that cannot be betrayed as it were. Therefore, it is right that those who take part in the Bureau and in the offices of the Commissions and the Senate Assembly fall from their role if, by their will, they decide to change their political opinion with respect to the Group they belong to. Mr President, I would also like to focus on the novelties that we approved this morning with regard to the regulatory procedure. Today, with the approval of the new Rules, we will have a Senate of the enlightening Republic and can serve as an example for the other House. That is a wish I leave to you, Mr President. By not interfering with the freedom of the other House, I leave it to you to make public opinion aware of the path of reform and the results achieved by the Senate, which must also be an objective in the other House. We have adopted amendments to the Rules of Procedure which make the adoption of the measures even faster, but already today - we know from experience - the whole procedure can end within a few hours once confidence has been placed. The House of Deputies, when the question of trust is raised, works stop for a day, even in 1920, when there was a need for a telegram to warn Members that the question of confidence in the government measure had been raised. There is still one aspect to be highlighted. The certainty of the quality of the result lies not only in the quality of the regulations. We certainly need an application of the same that is always impartial. And, above all, those who are called to play the role that we are playing today in the Senate must have the conscience that the Rules of Procedure can never be used as an instrument in the hands of one side against the other, but must always be an instrument of balance and guarantee for all the political parties represented here. There is a passage that will still have to be made, but this is obviously part of the consciousness that everyone must have to represent the institutions. In this Chamber, Mr President, we are constantly approving motions, agendas and resolutions in the Commission, which remain a dead letter, because the Government's consideration of these acts is little more than that of a piece of paper. But this must not be. However, there are no regulatory arrangements to prevent non-consideration, but - I repeat - it is an assessment that must be made on the basis of the conscience that the person who comes here to play a role, as well as those who hold it at governmental level, does so with regard to the citizens of whom he represents the demands. The same would apply to the acts of inspection union: questions and questions. How many questions and questions by the senators who are concluding the legislature will remain unanswered? There can be no change in regulations that will take place if, on the part of those representing the institutions, there is also no awareness that the role must be based primarily on seriousness. 66 articles have been reformed: constitutional reform did not have such a large and wide scope. Well, Mr President, this is the right conclusion of a parliamentary term that has been bogged down for months, months and months on a distorted constitutional reform, which would even have wanted the Senate to be abolished. Today, however, we will be able, with the approval of this reform, to give our citizens the certainty of having in this House one of the most efficient and effective examples of legislation, I do not say in republican history, but certainly on the scenario of bicameralism constituted. By declaring our Group's vote in favour, of course also on the subsequent steps, complete and I repeat my appreciation for the work done by the Commission and the rapporteur, who has succeeded in bringing to a conclusion a regulatory change that certainly, as far as possible, has - if not more - equal value compared to the constitutional changes that many people want. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group and the Senators D'Ambrosio Lettieri and Sposetti.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-919.ana.u179	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-919.ana.u180	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-919.ana.u181	LO MORO (Art. 1-MDP-LEU). Mr President, the document we are debating today is rightly entitled 'Organical reform of the Senate's Rules of Procedure' and - I must say - a reform covering a third of the Rules of Procedure is certainly far-reaching. I would also like to begin by thanking my colleagues in the Committee on the Rules of Procedure and the Committee on the Rules of Procedure and you, Mr President, because I know how passionately you have followed this story for being present myself on one of the occasions when this has been discussed. And I am referring to the public meeting that marked a bit the start of this process. Of course, some of the amendments that have been tabled have come from the experience that, if for some of us it goes beyond the five years of this legislature, for me it refers instead to this legislature. There is no doubt that we are somewhat surprised to think that we could remain with rules of the Rules of Procedure which did not contain a correct adaptation to the relevant legislation, for example, in Europe or in the budget: from this point of view it was an essential change, but also a somewhat obvious one. Less obvious, but a great deal of suffering for all of us has been the change in the competence of the 11th Commission. I would remind everyone, especially Mr Bernini and Mr Calderoli, that, like me, they are part of the 1st Commission, what we have suffered in terms of skills and the desire to influence things at a time when, while public work was being discussed in the Chamber of a Commission, private work was being dealt with in the 11th Commission. There is no doubt that, especially at a time when there is a strong privatisation of public labour and its relations, this story could not continue. Similarly, I think that the 14th Commission could not continue to be a mid-term Commission, while it is now "normalised" as a permanent Commission. So, all this came from a shared experience. With respect to the value of abstention, we have repeatedly extended and many of us have also come to terms with not wanting to vote in favour or against, wanting to vote with a vote that was significant in political terms. In fact, to abstain does not mean to vote against, but it is a failure to take responsibility for a consensus that, especially in certain situations, can be an assumption of responsibility that a person - in this case a senator - may not consider appropriate to his own ideas and, therefore, to his own position. I'm coming to a time cut. I see Mr Calderoli watching me. I smiled, indeed, reading the report by his signature when, on several occasions, he addressed as instruments very often used in a obstructive way devices that we have used in this House - which, above all, used those who were part of the minority - so that he knows well, as well as my fellow Members Bernini and Buccarella. The reduction in time was in things, because today saying ten or five minutes, depending on the circumstances, may seem little, but in reality no one has ever fully used the time available. In the same way, the removal of the reference to CNEL as well as codifying the fact that we finally arrive directly at the preliminary constitutionality in this House without going through the work of the Commission, which, very often - even in this parliamentary term - was brought to the House for a final evaluation. Therefore, all these factors are certainly a reform, but they are also dictated by a common experience and, from the point of view of an evaluation not subjective but dispassionate, are the result of experience more than of great innovation. On the other hand, there are other rules in the Rules of Procedure that undergo radical changes, with regard to which to speak of reform in the strict sense is really appropriate. In the previous phase, in the first years of this parliamentary term, very often, when we were talking about the reform of the Rules of Procedure, it was noted that in the meantime there was a constitutional reform in progress in which it seemed that we had to lay down rules also for supplementing regulations, the House and the Senate, to which we could not put our hands. At this stage, even after the failure of the reform, it was necessary to put in place those rules, which is why this also marks a way of completing the parliamentary term - and for this reason thanks - absolutely positive. In particular, I would like to address my colleagues who have been most involved in this matter from the point of view of the preparatory work and the substance of the matter. Very often, many of us have suffered greatly from the fact that, when we speak mainly in a media way, outside, it is said that everything lies in the Senate, everything is stopped in the Senate. On the contrary, the arcane that we are revealing also in these amendments to the Rules of Procedure is that politics often brings to completion its decisions where everything seems easier - except that today the House has not been able to make a modification of the Rules of Procedure - where, in short, we work with majority blows; but then everything is stuck in the Senate because there is no political will to move forward. Well, I believe that from some points of view the amendments to the Rules of Procedure will put a strong backdrop to all this for the future. For example, for certain procedures that are more important to me, such as the discipline of the popular-initiative bill, all this will not be possible, just as it will not be possible for the draft laws declared urgent: the initial declaration or the recognition of the popular will in the opening of the procedure will not be sufficient because it will be necessary to arrive in time regulated either by the Rules of Procedure or by the Presidency - but still close - to the verification of the work in the Commission and, therefore, in the Assembly. From this point of view, I believe that the reform is highly innovative. On the other hand, among the innovations introduced on the procedural level, which above all contrast even the most obstructive aspects that we have experienced, there is the single sitting, which will prevent, at the beginning of each sitting, all the procedures that we have sadly accustomed ourselves to, because it will see them in some way put aside. Turning, then, to the most innovative and most discussed part of this affair, I want to refer in particular to one aspect. Finally, I leave the Group's speech, which is certainly the one on which the vision diverges most, and I speak for a moment, only en passant, because time is little, of the Commissions. I think it is very positive to dedicate two weeks of work to the Commissions and, above all, to favour the deliberating and drafting fora. Turning to the Groups, I would like to make a positive assessment of the new legislation. I say to my colleagues that to predict that the Groups reflect the electoral lists is to photograph the situation at the time of the elections, and not to stop politics. Politics does not always or only need parliamentary groups. It often needs other places too, and I believe that the other places, where the divisions that have been mentioned have been celebrated and where politics will obviously have its dominion, will not be able to stop it even a parliamentary regulation. If anything, they will obviously give rise to political components, which are already provided for in the Rules of Procedure en passant, and which perhaps I would have liked to see more clearly and regulated in this Rules of Procedure. But the political components, perhaps of the Mixed Group, will obviously be able to accommodate all the demands of the policy that cannot be regimented by a parliamentary regulation. This way of seeing the Groups means that citizenship, which sees in this place the place of caste and distance, must begin to deal with the fact that what is here corresponds to its vision of Parliament and that after the elections there will be parliamentary groups, united or separate, which were, however, submitted to the vote of the voters. From this point of view, it seems to me that, with all the limitations that it can have and with all the negative reflections on the experience we have experienced, this is an absolutely compatible and positive solution. I say this above all as a member of the Article 1-MDP-LEU Group, as a subject and as a senator who has experienced a split, split in whose reasons he continues to believe. But, frankly, I think that the split that gave rise to the birth of a Group would certainly not have been arrested by the regiments in a single Group, because of course it would have had another political location, another institutional and political place to be carried forward, which was the Mixed Group and therefore the political component. Nothing stops. The need for and the right to live this experience without a mandate, as referred to in Article 67 of the Constitution, is safeguarded, but citizens are given the guarantee that there will be no such transformations here and there will be nothing to do with the real political debate that I was referring to. Instead, they have to do with those phenomena and alchemies that we have also seen living in the past legislatures, and which often turn away from politics. The citizens want a dynamic policy, a policy that evolves and changes, if it is considered necessary to change, but not necessarily free change of clothes and perhaps dictated by contingent needs or that have nothing to do with the values that politics must bear. We shall therefore vote in favour of this amendment. [[Applause from the Group Art.1-MDP-LEU and Senator Bernini.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-919.ana.u182	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-919.ana.u183	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-919.ana.u184	ZELLER (Aut (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT)-PSI-MAIE). Mr President, the present reform of the Senate's Rules of Procedure is broad and significant as it innovates and introduces rules and guidelines that contribute to a more effective role and functions of the Senate. The failure of constitutional reform and the consequent maintenance of the perfect bicameral system have imposed a reform process whose outcome was not at all obvious, given the impossibility of doing the same to the House of Deputies for failure to reach a consensus, even minimal, among the parliamentary groups. We senators can, therefore, be proud to have succeeded in the enterprise. Let me turn to the text of the reform. The amendments to the legislative procedure in the Permanent Commissions and in the Chamber are of particular importance, taking into account the evolution of the budgetary framework and a codification of the best practices already adopted for the examination of preparatory acts for European legislation. The new discipline of the question of trust, the decision to no longer consider the abstention vote as equivalent to the opposite vote, the halving of the speaking time in general discussion or on points of order are all choices that make the role of the Assembly more streamlined and effective. At the same time, a different relationship between the Assembly and the Permanent Commissions is being introduced, strengthening the legislative activities of the latter. Although it may seem paradoxical to us, we also agree that we no longer allow the secret vote on subjects relating to linguistic minorities. This is because the current procedure, designed to be a guarantee for linguistic minorities, is increasingly used not only for obstructive purposes, but also to facilitate the adoption of rules detrimental to minorities. I refer, in particular, to the recent events during the examination of constitutional and electoral reforms. It is, above all, the new discipline of the parliamentary groups that is fundamental to us as self-governmentists. As you know, this reform of the Rules of Procedure takes place where the evolution of our political and parliamentary system appears to be marked by a growing crisis of legitimacy. The introduction of a link between the constitution of the Parliamentary Group and the obligation to represent a party or political movement that presented its own list of candidates to the Senate elections is a fundamental innovation for us. The forecasts that limit the exchange of votes and the creation of new parliamentary groups, also in relation to the way in which the parties presented themselves at the political elections, strengthen the criteria of representativeness and transparency, without calling into question the constitutional reasons for the absence of a mandate. This also contributes to the forfeiture of certain positions of the Presidency Council and the Bureau of the Commissions, in relation to possible group passages by the holders of the office. In particular, as the Group for the Autonomies, we believe that it is historical and profoundly significant that it has been granted to linguistic minorities and elected parliamentarians in the Special Regions a derogation from the mandatory rule of the minimum threshold of ten senators for the establishment of a parliamentary group. The recognition of the important role of the Per le Autonomie Group, composed - as we know - of representatives of linguistic minorities and elected senators in the special regions, whose statute provides for the protection of these minorities, was not at all obvious. I recall that, about 20 years ago, we in the House of Deputies tried to achieve similar recognition, but we were unable to reach an absolute majority in the vote for a few votes. The tightening of the current discipline would have meant that it would not be possible in the future to reconstitute the Group for the Autonomies in the number of ten senators, because the senators belonging to our Group are the expression of the French, German and Ladin linguistic minorities, together with other autonomous senators who apply for different regions and with different symbols. Under the new Rules, it would have been impossible to set up a group. We therefore thank colleagues from all the parliamentary groups who have shown themselves to be sensitive to the needs of linguistic minorities, allowing the minimum number to be reduced to five senators, avoiding the disappearance of a historical group that has existed in the Senate since 2001 and, therefore, uninterruptedly for over sixteen years. This recognition in the Rules of Procedure of the Senate is a historic milestone for us. I would add, personally, that the change made is a further reason for our particular satisfaction: we have finally managed, after so many years, to raise awareness of this Assembly and the colleagues of all the Groups about the need for the establishment of this Group which is not comparable to others; in this way, the special self-governments and linguistic minorities will be able to organize themselves and give voice to their territories, without necessarily having to join other political components in order to set up a Group. Finally, we welcome the fact that, in accepting an amendment tabled by us on behalf of the senators for life - who have always been an essential component of our Group - this reform also takes into account their particular status, providing that from now on they can also choose not to join any group. I would like to conclude by thanking, in particular, President Grasso, President Zanda and Minister Finocchiaro, but above all the rapporteur, Mr Calderoli, who has spent a great deal of time to get this very important reform approved, but also the entire Committee of the Council for the Rules of Procedure for the excellent work that has been done. I therefore declare the Group's vote in favour of the Autonomies-PSI-MAIE. [[Applause from the Aut Group (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT) - PSI-MAIE and Senator Silvestro.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-919.ana.u185	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-919.ana.u186	He has the floor for two minutes, because Senator Mazzoni has already spoken for his Group.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-919.ana.u187	FALANGA (ALA). Mr President, Senator Mazzoni voted against Rule 1 because of the organisation of the work of this House. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Do your surgery. FALANGA (ALA). I thank you, because otherwise I would have voted against by my group for a few more minutes. On the basis of the organization that was announced to us, I should have intervened on Article 2, which at first raised some constitutional concerns in me. However, by carefully reading the rule laid down by the Junta and Article 72 of the Constitution, I realized that my perplexities of unconstitutionality were quietly overcome. If this rule, which is going to speed up the legislative process, had already been in force at the beginning of our work, we probably would not be able to leave today without a definitive approval of measures already fired, approved by the House of Deputies. I am referring to the provisions for the protection of witnesses of justice, the provisions on crimes against cultural heritage, the amendments to the Civil Code and the Code of Criminal Procedure and the provisions on orphans for domestic crimes, and the provisions on disciplinary responsibility of magistrates and office transfers. All these measures have already been approved by the other House and unfortunately we have not had a conclusive outcome. Perhaps we could have avoided this situation with this regulation, with the provisions of Article 2, by giving our fellow citizens fair and fair rules. I therefore believe that I can vote in favour of this amendment and I cannot fail to thank Mr Calderoli for the work he has done, you, Mr President, for the passion he has put into these provisions, and all his colleagues. I regret to say that we have not been able to make a contribution, albeit modestly, in the Committee on the Rules of Procedure, because, having no component in that assembly, we have not been able to cooperate at all. However, the change is important. I share Mr Mazzoni's concerns about Article 1. As the amendment of the legislative procedure is too important, I also surpass the concerns of Senator Mazzoni, whom I share, and I believe that in the end, having to give a final opinion, my vote can only be favourable, with thanks for those who have worked on it.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-919.ana.u188	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-919.ana.u189	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-919.ana.u190	DE PETRIS (Misto-SI-SEL-LEU). Mr President, the reform of the Rules of Procedure that we are about to vote on is very significant and concerns - as other Members have already said - even a little more than a third of all the Rules of Procedure. I put here an issue which I hope will be better dealt with in the next parliamentary term. Perhaps we could have included additional elements of amendment that are equally significant, which - in my opinion - would have helped us also to reaffirm and restore a strong centrality to Parliament, which is then the meaning of the reform, at least in its intentions. I would therefore like to address the rapporteur. We could have, for example - and this would certainly have been easy for all of us, although from different points of view - to speak on Article 161 - I know that then the Committee of the Regions has made choices - perhaps by introducing elements which were more coherently related to many statements made over the last few months, including political discussions, which would have helped everyone. We could have regulated - for example - matters on which confidence cannot be placed in the Rules of Procedure. Perhaps we could have introduced - at this point formally - the electoral law among the subjects on which it is not possible to put the question of trust. I say this as engraved to affirm the thread on which we have reflected in some way in recent years. This reform, Mr President, is in some way the realization of what all those who opposed the Renzi-Boschi reform repeated not for the sake of pure propaganda, but because they knew the parliamentary work well, just as they knew the value of our Constitution. What have we also supported from different points of view? We have supported, throughout the referendum campaign and during the debate on constitutional reforms - as you know, it has been a very complex and tiring work in this House - that, when it was stated that the legislative process needed to be speeded up, giving it even more efficiency, perhaps it would have been more useful to put in place a reform of the Rules of Procedure. To President Calderoli I say that it is one of the issues on which, from different points of view compared to constitutional reform, we had in some way concentrated, also focusing on the idea of saying that this was possible. In other words, if we want to, we can put our hands on the reform of Parliament's regulations, and that would be much more productive and meaningful. Somehow we got there and I want to claim here that it's significant that the Senate does it. The Senate, the Chamber destined to perish, has instead - this yes - the capacity not only to self-form, putting hand to the Rules of Procedure, but also to say something important, on which perhaps the work can be refined better: to reaffirm the centrality of Parliament, the legislative procedure and its quality. In fact, when the choice is made - as is the case in the reform of the Rules of Procedure before us and as is hoped to happen, since it is the intention of the reform - to make the most of the work of the Commissions, to which half of the time will be devoted, and therefore there will be very important work in the decision-making and drafting fora, it is not only said that Parliament is central in the legislative process. It is also said that we have great regard for a fundamental issue that is the quality of our legislation: quality, President. We have always contested the idea that it was only a speed problem; we have always argued that it was certainly also a problem of efficiency in a system, but above all of giving quality to our way, not only to work, but precisely to legislate, because that is what the citizens are asking us to do. I think we are keeping our word: I am speaking for myself, of course, like many others who have said no to that constitutional reform. And it wasn't a spite, but it was a restore of value and strength to constitutional principles. At the same time, today, in approving this reform of the Rules of Procedure, we are consistent with what we said at the time, namely that different instruments should be used: do not touch the Constitution in such a heavy way, but take seriously the regulations. So we've been lost many years, President. Therefore, the fact that this Senate, almost at the end or probably at the end of this parliamentary term, is a handful of this reform must honor this House. There is the other element on which - as you know - I have also intervened, as well as other senators of my own or of other groups: I am talking about anti-transformism norms. I repeat that, in my opinion, they were just rules; many of them have been voted on and certainly should not have been confused with anything else, namely that, in view of the new electoral law, a party which might not have been able to reach the prescribed number could not form a group: this, in my opinion, is an issue on which I hope that in the next parliamentary term we can reflect more effectively. In fact, there is a problem of relations with the voters and the possibility of fully exercising their electoral mandate. Of course, I would have taken more care of this, Mr President. The rapporteur has well understood the issues at stake. The experience we have had in this legislature and in the past, precisely, must not lead us to confuse different plans: operations of pure and simple change of coat with other events that instead have been produced in this legislature. However, this must not be confused with the possibility - out of respect for those who voted for us - that elected senators with a list can fully carry out their mandate. I would have taken more care of them, because they are constitutional standards: it is our Rules of Procedure, as you know perfectly well, Mr President, and perhaps I would have avoided some drooling. In order to restore the centrality of Parliament, if I had been on the restricted committee (while I am only in the Committee on the Rules of Procedure, as others have also heard during the debate), while taking into account the need, as has been done with regard to changes concerning the way in which work is discussed, simplified and rationalised, even in relation to the times, I would perhaps have taken even more care and regard to the rights of the opposition. Strengthening them would help to restore the centrality of the legislative process. These are the things I would have preferred to have taken care of and given more thought to. Having said that, President, we are accustomed, as senators of the Italian Left, to look at the prevailing. What is the prevailing principle of the reform of the Rules of Procedure in our examination? For us, the prevailing one is positive, precisely because of what we have said and that we bring to completion after the battle to defend our Constitution and to give back centrality to the legislative process and its quality. For this reason, although we have expressed some reservations about certain points, which are certainly not minor, we will vote in favour of this document. [[Applause from the Mixed-SI-SEL-LEU and Art.1-MDP-LEU Groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-919.ana.u191	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-919.ana.u192	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-919.ana.u193	BUCCARELLA (M5S). Mr President, this brings to an end the complex and sometimes complicated work which began just before the summer of the last part-sessions of the Committee on the Rules of Procedure. To remember, already in 2014 the Junta and the individual senators had been affected by a possible regulatory reform of the Senate. The process was interrupted, as is known, for the wretched, but fortunately foiled constitutional reform that would see this Senate become something else. The process is resumed this year with this formula suggested by the Presidency of the Small Committee, which I, on behalf of and on behalf of the 5 Star Movement Parliamentary Group, have tried to make my contribution by maintaining an approach that was set out in the original intentions, namely to address such a delicate and important subject by disappearing the ordinary contrasts, which often exist between opposing political forces of majority and opposition, but bearing in mind that we were all - and we are still - in the favourable situation of being able to approach this reform without a non-political membership - because that is probably uneliminable - but without feeling that we were all - and still are - in the favourable situation of being able to approach this reform without a political membership - because that is probably uneliminable - but without feeling as a member of a majority or opposition group. This favourable circumstance of not knowing the future and not knowing who tomorrow might be in one role or another objectively has favoured the work, which I believe to be worthwhile overall, of the Committee of the Regions, of the Council and now of the Assembly. I would therefore like to express a generally favourable opinion in the knowledge that we, as well as perhaps other political forces, would have conceived and imagined a Senate Regulation which is not perfectly consistent with the text that we are going to fire today. Speaking of the rules of the game of those who will come from the next parliamentary term, however, I believe that the positive aspects prevail over the perplexities or the awareness that they have not touched all the arguments or not in the best way. We greet those who from our point of view have been the most important results, those that are in the DNA of the 5 Star Movement since we looked out into this prestigious institution. I refer, first of all, to the mandatory examination of the draft laws of popular initiative. Already in the amendments of my colleagues in 2014 this was a very heartfelt and proposed topic that belongs to the history and sensitivity of the Movement and we can only welcome the principle that the examination of the bill of popular initiative, after at least 50,000 citizens have collected signatures for a law, must finally be examined by the Senate in a well-defined time period, which is three months. This is an answer that we are beginning to give to the citizens in relation to the commitments that we too have made. The other amendment that certainly sees our favour is the whole of the legislation aimed at discouraging parliamentary transformation and the birth of parliamentary groups that today live here without having any electoral legitimacy. We have seen, in this parliamentary term, more than in previous times, the emergence of parliamentary groups which are far from representing the noble sense of the parliamentary mandate and respect for the provisions of Article 67 of the Constitution. Very often we had the impression that senators were not moving from the point of view of representing the nation. While respecting the prohibition of the mandate, we have seen the birth of parliamentary groups often functional to contingency and political conveniences, perhaps strong of the weapon of political blackmail. Well, the rule that will prohibit the creation of new parliamentary groups, which do not have a match in the ballot boxes that the Italians will find before from here to the future, can only be a rule to be welcomed. The sanction proposed for those who abandon the Group, under the aegis of which it has been voted, as we know will be the forfeiture of the positions assumed during the legislature: therefore, from the Vice Presidents of the Senate to the Secretaries of the individual Commissions, you will lose your office when you were to abandon the original Group. We have also considered that in the course of the work of the Council's Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection in the course of the amendment, we have adopted a rule aimed at protecting the Member of Parliament, which must not be subject to the yoke of its Parent Company or its own party owner. We have therefore proposed that this kind of sanction should not be imposed in the event that the Member is removed from his/her own group's wishes: it seems to us a reasonable compromise, which also maintains respect for the autonomy and freedom of the individual Member, who has no reason to leave his/her group, but who is expelled and removed from the Group. We believe that it is a fair compromise and we hope that from the 18th legislature onwards the number of so-called "changes," that is, those who have not done so for ideal and moral reasons, perhaps in respectable abstract, but for personal, political or careeristic conveniences, decrease and this phenomenon is greatly discouraged. In changing the subject, I believe that it belongs to the experience of each of us to confront our friends, who we often host in the forums, who, in the vast majority of cases, tell us that, after having attended the proceedings in the Chamber, are mostly surprised and sometimes even mortified to see the appearance of an Assembly - we know that this happens especially in the course of the general discussions - in which there is one speaker speaking and the rest of the senators, for the vast part, is completely distracted - it happens to everyone: in this we are obviously victims and executioners - taken to read on their phone, tablet or newspaper, exactly as is happening, in part, even at this moment. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Except for the president, and everyone. BUCCARELLA (M5S). Except for the President, however, we have memories of other presidencies who are lovingly entertaining themselves with their mobile phones rather than following the work of this House. I am making this reference because it is the feeling that I too as a citizen have always had and I too, too often, if I looked out of those stands today. This is due, in our view, to the ways in which this branch of Parliament - and probably the other - is forced to work, that is, with a division of work between the Commission and Parliament, which certainly does not favour the optimization of the work and sometimes also the attention and the profit of attention to the work of this House. I am referring to the legislative changes that temporarily separate two weeks of work for the Commissions and two more weeks for the House, thus establishing an organisational principle for the European Parliament. This time separation is added to the new provision according to which, as a rule, the Commissions will work in non-referencing bodies, subject to the exception of Article 35 of the Regulation, which provides for the reference headquarters for certain types of particularly important bills. This will enable us to see - or at least this is our expectation - that the Commission will be able to carry out all the stages of the debate, including those of amendment, confrontation and political confrontation, which perhaps sometimes take on levels of spectacularization that are not always functional to the achievement of the result, so that the Commission can deepen, without having to involve the House in so many aspects, that when they are technicians they undoubtedly divert the attention of some senators and make sure that the appearance perceived by those who watch us work is that of almost total inattention to what is being debated in this House. We allow the committees to work, examine and distract all the problems of the draft laws and that the Assembly should be asked to vote in a thoughtful manner. Finally, we have also approved an amendment which provides for the vote on the individual articles and the final vote: the draft laws in the drawing-up - obviously those in the deliberating session will end their process in the Commission - will be examined in the Assembly, which we expect will be more careful in the future and also more involved in the minor interventions that will be carried out there, so that we can work better and also give the impression of working better. Another aspect that we have welcomed is the guarantee for minorities, whatever they may be in the future. We hope that the wheel turns and that in the minority there will be other political forces (this is a legitimate expectation that you must recognize us). Well, minorities will be guaranteed to be able to include both drafts of laws and acts of direction on the calendar beyond the availability that today the majority in turn has in the calendarization at the Conference of the Leaders. It is a rule tending to favor oppositions. There is another word I want to say about the work of the Commission, even here in a favourable sense, Mr President, even though we have not achieved the objective we have proposed. Since we expect that the work in the Commissions will be prevalent, it will be much more important than it is today, the advertising of the Commissions' work, in a corresponding way, should have more vigour, more visibility precisely to let us understand how we work and who must take responsibility, positive or negative, in relation to parliamentary work. Well, we have achieved a certainly commendable objective, namely to have repealed a paragraph of an article, Article 33 of our Rules of Procedure, which had - and at this time still has - that the meetings of the Commissions in the referent and consultative session should not be public. This paragraph has been repealed, we have obtained the result of being able to have the publicity of the work, by telematics and television, in the Commission also in the referee, leaving to the evaluation of the opportunities of the Commission, which will require it to the President of the Senate. It is not what we might have expected to have guaranteed and total publicity but it is a good step forward towards what could be a complete and transparent control of parliamentary work that is perceptible also outside. As for the electronic vote, which reminds me of my neighbor from the bench, as well as the delegate from the Santangelo Chamber... president. Which is a victim of the electronic voting request. BUCCARELLA (M5S). Yes, Mr President, but in our little one we want to show the pride of having achieved a result that we had achieved in fact in the practice of the systematic request for electronic voting, in order to make the vote expressed in this House transparent to ourselves and also outside. That of electronic voting will hopefully be the norm without these baroqueisms which require the verification of a sufficient number of applicants. This is also a small result - which is not so small - that it will help to change the Senate's work in an optimal way. I repeat: there are also aspects on which we have concerns and on which, of course, experience will tell us how much and how well we have worked and how much and how much we have underestimated some aspects, perhaps overestimating others. We are determined to give an algebraic judgment - based on an algebraic sum between the arguments that convinced us and those that did not convince us - in a favourable sense, and that is why I declare my Group's vote in favour of the measure before us. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-919.ana.u194	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-919.ana.u195	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-919.ana.u196	BERNINI (FI-PdL XVII). Mr President, on behalf of my Group, I would like to express the same pride and satisfaction. I believe that the reform of the Rules of Procedure is certainly an important acquisition for the end of this parliamentary term. We are at the end of the line, we know that, although, as previous speakers have reminded me, they have already anticipated many of the things that will be a part of the vindication and success of my speech, this reform has started a few months ago. It certainly starts from interventions that have been made in the last parliamentary term and have been repeated in this and that we are not casually remembering. Each of us, each of our parliamentary groups, had contributed, according to our own sensitivity and according to our own definition of scope of intervention, to the attempt to amend a regulation which certainly showed a clear need to be reformed, partly because time, legislative interventions, some constitutional reforms had brought it down in desuetude, partly because the good, the medio-bad, the bad and the bad practices had manifested themselves in this House and had made clear to all of us what the remedies to operate were. In this case, we have worked together and that is the thing I want to claim with greater satisfaction. As you well know, Mr President, and as all our colleagues in the Council know - and we have also shared this cooperative attitude with this House since today - this reform has been done by common accord. We have obviously narrowed down the perimeter of what we would have liked to change or erase from what we really shared. Each of us would have liked - believe me, ladies and gentlemen, my group is not taking a step away from me - to write in a different way an overall reform of the Rules of Procedure, because this is a reform that, as Senator Lo Moro recalled, involves some sixty articles, so a third of the Rules of Procedure, so it is not a total reform, but an organic reform of important aspects of this Regulation. Since we decided together - the rapporteur, Mr Calderoli, Mr Zanda, Senator Buccarella and myself - to define the scope of operation, we have had very clear lines of action. It is not by chance what has been mentioned here today and which has also been discussed in the Junta. It is not by chance that the main pathology that had been highlighted - I must say, for intellectual honesty, not only in this legislature, but also in previous legislatures - was an excess of parliamentary fragmentation both with regard to the Groups and with reference to the individual senators; and in this case more than fragmentation has been talked about transhumance or even transformationism, without this wanting to give individual choices a value of stigma or contempt: each, of course, is responsible for its own political choices, which are still respectable in the eyes of those who decide to make regulatory changes, but system pathologies cannot be ignored. We know very well that we must take into account both the profile of our external image, which nevertheless has a significance, and therefore the way in which this parliamentary term has been defined, and others, as a legislature of rapid transitions from one parliamentary group to another, and the internal perspective of maintaining a democratic order, namely the need for representativeness between the vote given by the electorate and the role played by the elected in this Parliament. In addition to the role played by the elected representatives, it is also necessary to respect, with a view to democratic parliamentary dynamics, the role of the majority and the role of the opposition, without which Parliament risks paralysis both at the level of Parliament and at the level of the Commission. As far as the Groups are concerned, our consideration has been very simple: the parliamentary groups must correspond to the political parties and movements which, during the elections, requested votes from the citizens from whom they were elected. This was the guideline, the polar star that led our changes. I must say that on certain aspects that have been brought to the attention of this House today too, I do not think it is necessary to make further details, because the rapporteur has already replied to some of the amendments which would have further deepened the scope of intervention beyond the scope that we ourselves had given to us. The second intervention that we felt we had to operate with reference to the Commissions is also aimed at meeting the need to leave in this regulatory change a footprint of speed, efficiency and simplification of the activity of the Commissions. The fact of including as a priority way of examining the bill, therefore the process of formation of the law, the definition in the Commission in the deliberating and drafting of the bill itself gives the measure of what you want, not already increasing the process of formation of the laws, but - simply - defining it, defining it and making it in a more permeable context to the contributions of all parliamentarians. I would remind you that there is the - insurmountable - rock of Article 72, last paragraph, of the Constitution, which lists the subjects for which the ordinary examination procedure must be adopted (in addition, of course, to the possibility of requesting for other measures the examination by the Assembly). In this passage in this House we have changed an aspect of the building, considering it more appropriate, as is the case in the Chamber of Deputies, for it to continue in the House by voting item by article and by final vote of the measure. Frankly, I believe - on this I allow a single margin of distinctiveness with respect to the decision always taken unanimously with my colleagues - that it would have been appropriate to maintain the procedure envisaged in the Senate, in my opinion more efficient and usable than that of the House, which, moreover, has not given much proof of itself, since it has never been implemented in the last sixty years. Even with reference to the House of Deputies, many have called for constitutional reform and the fact that this High Chamber has been particularly targeted and targeted in this endless election campaign, which has also paralysed the reform of the Rules of Procedure itself, of a series of responsibilities, to say the least, ungenerous. This definition of positions and affirmation of the principle of the capacity to self-form that the Senate has assumed towards the Lower House - it is not an acceleration - is another step of which this House must be proud, because surely what is happening here will have a systemic value also with reference to the Lower House. Precisely because some of my fellow Members' speeches in this House have focused on this, I would stress that at the time when we considered giving a system formula to the passages of Members from the time of the Group's attendance at the beginning of the parliamentary term only to the Mixed Group, Mr Buccarella spoke of sanctions against a possible change of parliamentary group. In fact, we have not established sanctions, because our essential element has always been Article 67 of the Constitution, which provides for the prohibition of mandatory mandates. Therefore, in addition to an indication of order and membership given to the Member of Parliament, sanctions or punishments could not be established which could alter the provision of Article 67, according to which the Member represents the nation and carries out his duties without binding mandate. Similarly, there is the possibility of a point of order, which is exactly what we have implemented. There were also - we discussed this in the Committee and also in the Junta - more incisive proposals, such as the possibility of leaving the budget of the parliamentarians only to the first group of members, leaving it out of the budget if the exchange rate had taken place. But here - yes - the sanction would have been punitive, so a little borderline with the forecast referred to in Article 67 of the Constitution. Instead, the forecast of the decline of representatives with positions in the Bureaus of the Commissions, Vice Presidents and Secretaries of the Assembly is simply induced by the fundamental and indispensable need to ensure the relationship between majority and opposition and, therefore, the proportionality on which the whole operation of the Senate is based in both the Commission and the Assembly. The same balancing test was carried out by the Committee of the Regions - and thus by the Committee of the Rules of Procedure and now by all of us - with regard to the simplification and efficiency of the work of the House. Here too, in my opinion, we are becoming bearers of good practices that will - I repeat - have a systemic value erga omnes, even with reference to the Lower House. It is also clear that we have been very respectful of the equally indispensable right to the free manifestation of political thought and opinion, but it must always be offset by a clear need for processional economy, because this is what makes an effective Senate and what makes it understandable in the eyes of our representatives. I'm only allowed one last notation. I apologize, but in all that is the object of a mediation - and I use the term in the absolutely positive sense of transaction in which something is acquired and something is granted; the famous aliquid datum, aliquid netantum - someone must take responsibility for the transaction. This was done by the Committee of the Regions, which, after narrowing the scope, has also narrowed the scope of intervention. I apologise to all those who would have liked - for example, in my parliamentary group - that the scope of intervention should be wider, as the wider scope of intervention in our original proposals was. I would like to thank all my colleagues in my parliamentary group who have contributed to the debate - I hope I do not forget anyone - particularly my colleagues, Mr Malan, Mr Palma, Mr Gasparri, Mr Mario Mauro and my colleagues, Mr Caliendo and Mr Floris, for their work on the amendment. Thank you, but there was no other way. This measure has been the important object of a mediation, which I consider to be successful, which has brought improvements to the Rules of Procedure - with this I started my speech and I want to repeat it now in conclusion - of which I believe that our Group should be proud, as well as this Senate. Finally, of course, I would like to thank Mr Zanda, Mr Buccarella and Mr Calderoli for the way in which this upward transaction - always on the upside - has been conducted. As I have already said, my Group's vote on the amendments to the Senate Rules of Procedure will be in favour. [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-919.ana.u197	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-919.ana.u198	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-919.ana.u199	FUCKSIA (FL (Id-PL, PLI)). Mr President, I rise to declare my Group's abstention vote. What we are about to vote on is a late amendment to the Rules of Procedure, after having been called for so many times in this parliamentary term. It almost sounds, to some extent, the sound of an electoral ad. Some choices, in my opinion, will lead to a restriction of democracy; good, however, the will to influence the improvement of the legislative process, even if more on quantity than on quality and this is another observation I would like to make. We absolutely do not have to make any more laws, but better laws. Well, then, the division on the model of the European Parliament, but we hope that the hearings, the listening and the study are increasingly important in lawmaking, because many mistakes are also made in the haste to put the signature on a bill without looking then at the feedback on the quality and, above all, the concrete application of that law in reality. We appreciate the willingness to have a good understanding and cooperation, but we could certainly do more and much better; above all, we could do much earlier. [[Applause from the FL Group (Id-PL, PLI).]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-919.ana.u200	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-919.ana.u201	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-919.ana.u202	ZANDA (PD). Mr President, by saying that the senators and senators of the Democratic Party voted in favour of the amendments to the Senate Rules on which we will be voting shortly, there is something I want to say, on the contrary, that I must say right away. The new rules are an investment in the future for our parliamentary and representative democracy. They will serve to make it stronger, more effective, more capable of facing the challenge of a world that asks us to solve, in the shortest possible time, ever more complex and more difficult problems to govern. I personally see too much indifference in the face of the obvious problems of our democracy and the state crisis. I say this thinking not only of our internal discussion, but also and above all of observing the political and cultural debate in our country. The question of the state status and the adequacy of our democratic structure to the demand for representation and governability, in a world that changes with a speed and depth never seen, should be the first concern of all the political forces and cultural and social movements of our country. We all know that most democracies in the world are in crisis; a serious crisis, for which we must be very careful. We know that not only our rights and freedoms are linked to the maintenance of democracy, but also the conditions for our civil coexistence, our well-being and the quality of our culture. A democracy in crisis breaks down the state, makes the legal order fragile and weakens the division of powers. As we know, and as has often been the case in the past, and it still happens, when democracies' crises worsen, they can have very serious effects, until anti-system forces prevail, obtuse nationalisms, reactionary instincts, more or less authoritarian governments. It is in order to avoid these dangers that Italy needs to strengthen its democracy with profound reforms of the institutional structure. Of course, those who, like me, have promoted and voted on constitutional reform in Parliament and have voted yes to the referendum are obliged to take account of the referendum result much more than those who voted no. I must point out, however, that the problems that the reform tried to solve remain intact, starting with the obvious limitations of a bicameralism that has disappeared throughout Europe and which produces obvious deficits in terms of efficiency and effectiveness in our democracy. Hence the extraordinary value that parliamentary regulations have, which are able to influence in a very important way the quality of the work of Chamber and Senate, that is the quality of the laws that govern Italian society. Perhaps not all public opinion fully understands the weight of the Regulations in the institutional life of a parliamentary democracy. Their nature of internal regulatory acts makes them not easily decipherable if not by the experts. However, I am sure that no one in this House misses the extraordinary importance of the vote that we will be voting on shortly. In our system, parliamentary regulations have a force and value that is very close to that of constitutional norms and complement, making them alive and vital, the provisions of the Constitution on the organisation of legislative power. Regulations regulate the process of laws in the Commission and in the Assembly; Regulations define the organizational architecture of the Chamber and Senate; Regulations allow for a fair distinction of roles between majority opposition. It is the Regulations that define the position of the President of the Assembly, the Presidents of the Commission and the other bodies of the Senate. Finally, it is the Regulations that determine the important prerogatives of the Councils. The rules which, I hope, will shortly be adopted update very important points of the Senate's Rules of Procedure and will only enter into force in the next legislature. It will not, therefore, be the work of the senators in office who can benefit from it, confirming that the only objective of our vote must not be our particular and personal political interest, but the best efficiency of the parliamentary system. The Group of the Democratic Party, Forza Italia, Movimento 5 Stelle and Lega Nord were represented in the restricted Committee set up within the Council for the Rules of Procedure for the drafting of the text that we will be voting on shortly. The amendment, on which the rapporteur spoke this morning at the beginning of the sitting and which we should vote on shortly, is the result of a positive cooperation for which I would like to thank the Senators Anna Maria Bernini, Roberto Calderoli and Maurizio Buccarella. I thank them very sincerely, stressing that joint work must not be interpreted as a political convergence between majority and opposition, which remain very distant politically, but as a loyal collaboration between senators of very different political inspiration, motivated by the common intention of making the Senate's action stronger and stronger. This good result, also supported by the outcome of so many secret ballots this morning, was also the result of an agreement which provided that the final text should contain (and so it was) only those rules on which there was unanimous agreement of all four Senators of the Select Committee. This method has led to sacrificing those changes that some of us would have liked, but on which there was no consent of others. On the other hand, however, a text has been brought to Junta and to the House which is widely shared and for which, therefore, there was a reasonable expectation that it would be approved by the Junta, as it was then, and by this House, as I hope will happen shortly. I do not want here to retrace and repeat the detail of the reform of the Rules of Procedure. They have already taken into account yesterday's general debate and the explanations of vote that we heard a few minutes ago. All I'm saying is that the proposed changes have a very high reform value in terms of greater respect for the popular will, speed of the process of legislative acts, quality and clarity of parliamentary work. In predicting that the parliamentary groups should correspond to the political parties or movements that elected their representatives at the elections, respect for the will of the people is strengthened and limits are placed on the fragmentation that has often characterized us. By reducing the timing of our speeches, by giving a deadline to the Commissions to complete their work, by establishing that the questions referred for a preliminary ruling should be put only by the Groups or by a tenth of the Senators, the procedure of legislative acts should be speeded up. The fact that two weeks a month are reserved for the work of the Commissions and that those days will not coincide with those devoted to this House contributes significantly to improving the quality of Parliament's work, because the advantages of a thorough examination of the Commission before the text arrives in this House are obvious. After the adoption of this reform, only more fully defined texts will come to the House in the Commission, texts which the House will only have to refine, complete and finally define in its debate. Finally, the aim of the reform is to make the discipline of our work as orderly as possible, even by increasing the clarity of the expression of the will of the senators. It is also necessary to predict that the abstention vote, which now amounts to one vote against in the Senate, will be again a genuine abstention vote, i.e. a neutral vote. Mr President, the work carried out by the Committee on the Rules of Procedure and the Junta did not start from nothing, but it had as its basis many proposals for amendments that several Senators of the various Groups have tabled in this parliamentary term and in the previous ones. Among the many senators who in the recent past have devoted time and effort to the formulation of proposals for amending the Rules of Procedure I would like to mention: Anna Finocchiaro, Massimo Brutti, Gaetano Quagliariello, Stefano Ceccanti and Renato Schifani. I remember the long process of reform and I note the work of some of those who have promoted it in the past, especially to underline that none of us have the title to attribute the merit of the reform. I am certainly not entitled to it, nor - and they will excuse me - have the rapporteur, Mr Calderoli, who has worked so hard on it, or the President-in-Office of the Council, Mr Grasso, whom - and I thank him for that - the indication and constitution of the Committee. I believe that we must have the ambition to give the responsibility and merit of this reform to the whole House. We must be able to say loudly that, at the end of a very difficult parliamentary term, characterized by heavy political tensions, the Senate of the Republic has been able and wanted to approve - I hope by a large majority - a strong reform of its Rules of Procedure in the sole interest of improving the work of the next legislature. For me, Mr President, this is a good policy. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-919.ana.u203	Before voting on the articles of document II, n. 38, I have, pursuant to Rule 107 (3) of the Rules of Procedure, the determination of the number of those present. (Follows the determination of the number of persons present.)
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-919.ana.u204	In view of the outcome of the test, we shall proceed to the vote. We shall now proceed to the vote on Rule 1, on which the requested number of senators has submitted a request for a secret ballot. I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). Pursuant to Rule 113 (4) of the Rules of Procedure, I refer to the secret ballot of Rule 1 in the amended text. (The vote was followed). I declare the result of the secret ballot: [[Senators present 214 Senators voting 212 Majority 160 Favourites 171 Contrars 37 Absent 4]] The Senate approves. (See Annex B). [[Applause.]] Before we proceed to the vote on Rule 2, I warn you that the rapporteur has tabled the proposal for coordination C1, of which I read: Coordination following the adoption of amendment 2.5 In paragraph 1, paragraph "Art. 28" the words "and the resolution of the individual articles of" are replaced by the following "of" and in the paragraph "Art. 36" in paragraph 1, delete the words: "for the resolution of individual articles" and the words "vote of articles" is the following premise: "only." Consequently, insert the following paragraph: "Art. 42," in paragraph 2, the words "and approve" shall be deleted; in paragraph 4, the word "approval" shall be replaced by the following: "examination"; in paragraph 5 the words "final approval" shall be replaced by the following: "voting only of articles e." Coordination following the approval of amendment 2.15 (text 2) to paragraph 1, paragraph "Art. 144', in paragraph 5-b as amended, delete the words: "In the case of the resolution referred to in paragraph 5-a "" I put to the vote the proposal for coordination C1, tabled by the rapporteur. It's approved.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-919.ana.u205	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-919.ana.u206	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-919.ana.u207	SANTANGELO (M5S). Mr President, if possible, I would ask all my colleagues, especially those in favour of reform, the kindness of not supporting the request for a secret vote, given the enormous work done by everyone, so with a little attention you can also avoid voting in a secret way. [[Comments.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-919.ana.u208	Senator, everyone is free: moreover, the request has been made by twenty senators, who are supposed to continue to remain in their positions. We shall now proceed to the vote on Rule 2, on which the requested number of senators has submitted a request for a secret ballot. I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is not supported.) Senator Santangelo, your invitation has been accepted: the request is not supported, so someone listens to the appeals. Pursuant to Rule 167 (5) of the Rules of Procedure, I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Rule 2 in the amended text. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the vote on Rule 3, on which the requested number of senators has submitted a request for a secret ballot. I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is not supported.) Pursuant to Rule 167 (5) of the Rules of Procedure, I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Rule 3, in the amended text. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). Amendment 3.0.1 has been withdrawn. We shall now proceed to the vote on Rule 4, on which the requested number of senators has submitted a request for a secret ballot. I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is not supported.) Pursuant to Rule 167 (5) of the Rules of Procedure, I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Rule 4. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 4.0.100 (text 2), on which the requested number of senators has submitted a request for a secret ballot. I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is not supported.) Pursuant to Rule 167 (5) of the Rules of Procedure, I refer to the vote by simultaneous vote of amendment 4.0.100 (text 2), tabled by the rapporteur. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 4.0.101, on which the requested number of senators has submitted a request for a secret ballot. I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). Pursuant to Rule 113 (4) of the Rules of Procedure, I refer to the secret ballot of amendment 4.0.101 tabled by the rapporteur. (The vote was followed). I declare the result of the secret ballot: [[Senators present 218 Senators voting 217 Majority 160 Favorables 182 Contrars 31 Absent 4]] The Senate approves. (See Annex B). [[Applause.]] Amendment 4.0.1 is absorbed by the adoption of amendment 4.0.101. This led to the conclusion of the examination of document II, n. 38, which contains an organic reform of the Rules of the Senate.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-919.ana.u209	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-919.ana.u210	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-919.ana.u211	Mr Calderoli (Misto-LpSP). Mr President, as well as thanking my fellow Members of the Committee and all the members who have written an important page of the Senate today, I would like to mention, as has already been done, a person who has long worked on these reforms, who is the regretful Senator Donato Bruno. [[General applause. The Assembly stands.]] After that, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, many of you will remember that just a year ago, in times of reform, there was a rather important and heavy confrontation between me and President Napolitano in this House. I read, after receiving permission to do so, a letter that was sent to me a few hours ago. Dear Calderoli, I am not able to participate today in the final work in this House for the approval of the reform of the Rules of Procedure, but I would like to congratulate you on this kind of unexpected miracle of reform, which is so necessary and for a long time blocked, and of course I congratulate you on the innovative quality of the text, which owes much to your ancient and constant passion for the functioning of the Parliamentary Institution. With heartfelt cordiality. Giorgio Napolitano. [[Applause.]] Let me also, Mr President, express my personal thanks to former President Renzi and former Minister Boschi - and I say this in terms of jokes, therefore no one is affected - for their absence, which allowed reform to take place in this parliamentary term. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-919.ana.u212	The President only joins in his thanks, highlighting the greater speed of legislative acts, the limits to transformism and the short deadlines for dealing with the laws of parliamentary initiative. To the senators of the 18th legislature we hand over a Senate that will work even better. Thank you, therefore, to all of you and to the offices that have collaborated so much with the Committee and the Junta. The Offices of the Senate, the Legislative Offices and the Office of Studies are truly of high professionalism and have helped greatly to achieve this result. Thanks therefore to the Administration and the offices of the Senate. I shall immediately convene the Conference of the Leaders and suspend the sitting. (The sitting was suspended at 4.44 p.m. and resumed at 5.58 p.m.)
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-919.ana.u213	The Conference of Leaders approved the timetable for the work of the current week. During the unique sessions on Thursday 21, Friday 22 and Saturday 23 December, beginning at 9.30 a.m. and without scheduled closing hours, the House will examine the following points: protection of witnesses to justice, orphans of domestic crimes, health professions, elections of the Presidency of Administrative Justice, Court of Auditors and tax justice, limit of renewal CONI mandates, budget law, rules on citizenship and prevention of violent jihadist extremism. For the above-mentioned meetings, the Presidency will be able to establish suspensions in relation to the progress of its work. The timetable may also be supplemented by the discussion of documents drawn up by the Assembly of Parliamentary Elections and Immunities. Tomorrow's sitting will be suspended at 11.45 a.m. to allow Mr Altero Matteoli to attend the funeral, the figure of which will be commemorated by the Assembly at 2 p.m. Finally, I would like to say that the composition of the Senate has been confirmed in the parliamentary delegation to the Council of Europe Assembly.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-919.ana.u214	The Conference of Presidents of Parliamentary Groups, meeting today with the presence of the Vice Presidents of the Senate and with the intervention of the representative of the Government, adopted - pursuant to Rule 53 of the Rules of Procedure - the following integration to the program of the Senate's work for the months of October, November and December 2017 - Drawing of law n. 361-B - Amendments to Legislative Decree 23 July 1999, n. 242, in the matter of limits to the renewal of the mandates of the Italian National Olympic Committee (CONI) and national sports federations, and to Legislative Decree n. 43, in the matter of limits to the renewal of positions in the Italian Paralympic Committee (CIP), in the paralympic sports federations, in the paralympic sports disciplines and in the paralympic sports promotion bodies (Approved by the Senate and modified by the Chamber of Deputies)
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-919.ana.u215	At the same meeting, the Conference of Presidents of Parliament's Groups also adopted - pursuant to Rule 55 of the Rules of Procedure - the timetable for the current week: [[Thursday 21 December ant. h. 9,30 - Drawing of law n. 2740 - Protection of witnesses of justice (Approved by the Chamber of Deputies) - Drawing of law n. 2719 and related - Amendments to the civil code, the penal code and the code of criminal procedure in favour of orphans of domestic crimes (Approved by the Chamber of Deputies) - Drawing of law n. 1324-B - Health professions (Approved by the Senate and amended by the Chamber of Deputies) - Votes for the election of the members of the Councils of Presidency of Administrative Justice, the Court of Auditors and Tax Justice (Secret ballot votes by absolute majority on blocked lists) - Drawing of law n. 361-B - Limit of renewal mandates CONI (Approved by the Senate and modified by the Chamber of Deputies) - Drawing of law n. 2960-B - Budget of the State for the financial year 2018 and multiannual budget for the three-year 2018-2020 (Approved by the Senate) (Approved by the Chamber of Deputies) (Fined by the presence of the number of Judges) - Concerted by the law n. 2092 - Previsions of Law n. 9.30 a.m. Saturday 23 " ant. h. 9,30]] Amendments to bill No 361-B (Coni renewal limit) will have to be tabled by 1 p.m. on Thursday 21 December. As soon as transmitted by the Chamber of Deputies, bill No 2960-B will be immediately referred to the 5th Permanent Commission. The time limits for the submission of reports to the Budget Committee by the other standing committees and for the submission of amendments for consideration in the Assembly will be set by the Presidency in relation to the timing of transmission by the House of Deputies. For the single meetings scheduled, the Presidency will be able to establish suspensions in relation to the progress of its work. The timetable may be supplemented by the examination of documents drawn up by the Assembly of Parliamentary Elections and Immunities. Time distribution for discussion of bill No 2960-B (State budget for the financial year 2018 and multiannual budget for the three-year period 2018-2020) (10 hours, excluding explanations of vote) [[Majority Rapporteur 1 h. Minority Rapporteur 1 h. Government 1 h. Votes 2 h. Groups 5 hours, of which: PD 1 h. FI-PdL XVII 34' M5S 30' Mixed 30' AP-CpE-NCD 25' Aut (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT)-PSI-MAIE 22' GAL (DI, GS, MPL, RI) 22' Art. 1-MDP-LEU 21' ALA-SCLP 20 LN-Aut 19' FL (Id-PL, PLI) 18' Dissentents 5']]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-919.ana.u216	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-919.ana.u217	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-919.ana.u218	DE PETRIS (Misto-SI-SEL-LEU). Mr President, the delegation was confirmed by a majority. We have made a single request at the meeting of the Leaders because we believe that it is a moral and political duty and that is why, stubbornly, we want to propose it here with force. We therefore call for a reversal of the timetable proposals which you have just read and which are the fruit of the majority of the Leaders, with the first point being the continuation of our work, for which we have only a few days left, of the citizenship bill. You see, Mr President, I have spoken of political and moral duty because we have in some way the need - among other things, the legislature will probably end in a few days' time - to do what we consider to be an act of responsibility towards the country and its citizens, which would finally make clarity; an act of legal civilization, an act of justice. That is why, Mr President, over the last few months and days these boys and girls have sent us postcards that you may have also received: they are all small snapshots that tell the many stories, such as the one I now hold, Mohammed, Treviso, Assia di Palermo, of the many guys who believed in us, believed in the Senate, believed in the senators, believed that we could finally approve the law on citizenship, that is, the possibility of being fully Italian citizens and of being recognized as such, because they feel Italian, you know perfectly, and are Italian. I believe that it would have been absolutely a necessary step, simple to take, to finally be able to reach the adoption of this measure. It has been postponed for months, we no longer count the times we tried, every time there was something more important, we have reached the end of the legislature, we must not give up. We ask all of you not to give up; by the way, the draft budget law will come later, so we still have a window, a chance: let's do it for the 800,000 boys and girls who are waiting for this act of justice and this recognition that the Italian State owes them in some way. We do this for all those who have believed us and who still want to believe in politics and in this Senate. I therefore call for the order of business to be reversed, putting the draft law on citizenship at the first point. [[Applause from the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-919.ana.u219	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-919.ana.u220	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-919.ana.u221	WAR (Art. 1-MDP-LEU). Mr President, we entered this Conference of Leaders in a situation where the citizenship bill was scheduled prior to the draft State budget bill for the financial year 2018. Let us leave this Conference of Leaders with yet another twist: the rules on citizenship are laid down after the draft budget law and this without having the courage to admit clearly that this means not approving it, because everyone in this House knows with certainty that after the budget law there will be nothing left in this House. The first thing I would like to stigmatize is this very serious hypocrisy, because it passes on to people. I would like to ask for the immediate calendarization of this bill and I would like to bring, in support of the importance of this proposal, the words that in these postcards already remembered by Senator Loredana De Petris, have left us the Italians without citizenship and in particular, in my case, that of Shehan and Naveen of Brescia, which says: I arrived in Italy in 2002, at the age of eleven, accompanying my brother, who was only four years old, after a long period of separation from our parents. Since then, we have spent our whole life in Italy, which we are proud to call our country, where we have made schools like any Italian boy or girl. Despite this, an old-fashioned law does not recognize us as citizens of this state, but it requires legal strangers in the places where we grew up and continue to live. I hope you will have common sense in approving a reform that recognises our long way forward. I hope that all the people in this House who have made this commitment and who have spoken in favour of this bill will have the courage to support our proposal today. [[Applause from the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-919.ana.u222	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-919.ana.u223	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-919.ana.u224	ENDRIZZI (M5S). Mr President, do you see the importance of the request I had made and I could not do last week, that is to call the Conference of Group Leaders before the weekend? We had time to exploit well. Just when it's short, time must be exploited well. And, instead, Monday did not work, while yesterday we called at noon to close shortly after 3 p.m. and left another day of work. We could have anticipated the times and found room for every subject. Despite this, we still have two working days, because the examination of the draft budget law in the House of Deputies will not end until Friday in the late evening and, therefore, two days remain available. We have asked and still ask that the draft law No 2888 on the abolition of vitalities be included in the timetable of work on Friday. [[Comments of Senator Buemi]] Senator Buemi, this irony from you! If you're gonna go after the citizens, don't worry.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-919.ana.u225	Senator Endrizzi, talk to me.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-919.ana.u226	ENDRIZZI (M5S). Excuse me. [[Senator Airola's comments.]] The bill that was voted in the Chamber of Deputies, which bears the first signature of a MP of the Democratic Party, was sent to the Senate with proclamations, and then betrayed and covered up. We know very well what is going on, but it is important that everyone takes on their responsibilities. We do not want to take away pensions from Members of Parliament. We simply want them to be as fair as those of other Italian citizens. Those who voted for the Fornero law retire with the Fornero law and those who have enjoyed in the past privileges that Italians can no longer afford - or better, privileges that Italians have never had - will no longer be able to afford them. We have therefore made a reasonable proposal and we call for Friday to be devoted to this measure. There is time, what is missing is the time of hypocrisies. The task of this House is to vote and perhaps anticipate the citizens' vote in the next parliamentary elections. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-919.ana.u227	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-919.ana.u228	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-919.ana.u229	Hundreds of thousands (LN-Aut). Mr President, the proposal we make to this House is the same at the Conference of Leaders. As the first item on the agenda, we are calling for a timetable to be drawn up for the abolition of vitalities. Again... (Exchange of apostrophes between Senators Albertini and Santangelo). PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator Santangelo, join your seat. Hundreds of thousands (LN-Aut). We are at the end of the parliamentary term and there are fights in this House. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator Santangelo, I'm calling you back to order. [[Protests of Senator Santangelo]] I don't know what happened that caused your reaction. SANTANGELO (M5S). There are Senators Quaestors who have heard! PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I see your reaction and I call you back to order.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-919.ana.u230	On behalf of the Assembly, I greet the students, the students and the teachers of the Classical High School "Giosuè Carducci" of Cassino, in the province of Frosinone, who follow our works. [[Applause]] Don't tell yourself, that's what happens. (Repented exchange of apostrophes between Senators Albertini and Santangelo).
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-919.ana.u231	Senator Santangelo, I'm calling you back to order for the second time. SANTANGELO (M5S). You're gonna kick me out! PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I don't hear what you're told. SANTANGELO (M5S). I can feel it! I can feel it! PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I know, but I see his reactions: sometimes the foul of reaction is more serious than provocation. SANTANGELO (M5S). I can feel it though! Then call him back. Senators are here. Ask them. [[Brusio]] PRESIDENT. - The debate is Senator Santangelo, continue the work of the Assembly. Please, Senator Centinario. Hundreds of thousands (LN-Aut). Let's tell the kids we're not always like this, luckily. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Not always, but often. It's the parliamentary dialectic, guys, you don't get it. CARDINALI (PD). It is the dynamics of the 5 Star Movement, not parliamentary! [[Senator Cociancich's comments.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-919.ana.u232	So, as the first item on the agenda... [[Brusio. Senator Santangelo's protests.]] It is impossible to speak, Mr President. As the first item on the agenda, we are calling for the abolition of vitalities to be included. Given that everyone talks about it and that everywhere in the interviews everyone says they agree to abolish the vitality, we call for this proposal to be carried forward and voted on at the end of the parliamentary term. As a second point, we are asking that the bill on health professions be discussed, because they are asking us to do so and we believe that it should be voted as quickly as possible. As a third point, Mr President, we are calling for the debate on the Molteni draft law to be included in the agenda, as has already been requested on other occasions. In the Commission - alas - we had asked for the deliberating, but there are those who do not want it. [[Brusio]] President. - I call the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats. We also call for the draft law on the protection of witnesses to justice, orphans of domestic crimes and the prevention of jihadist violent extremism. Finally, there is the ius soli, of which we call for the inclusion in the timetable of the work of the XXXVII legislature, so at least in this parliamentary term it will never be discussed, nor approved. Contrary to the Members who spoke before us, we believe that all the points on the calendar are the least important and the least needed by the Italians. Before concluding, Mr President, I would like to ask you for a personal pleasure. Since this will be my last speech as a Parent in this parliamentary term, I would like to thank the senators of my Group and our employees who have endured and supported us throughout this parliamentary term: thank you guys. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-919.ana.u233	Senator Albertini, I call you to order, since you continued to speak during Senator Centinario's intervention. [[Applause from the M5S Group. Senator Cardinal's comments.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-919.ana.u234	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-919.ana.u235	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-919.ana.u236	ZANDA (PD). Mr President, I take the floor to confirm the approval of the timetable that you proposed, as I did at the Conference of the Leaders. However, I also take it because, neither in the speech of Senator De Petris nor in that of Senator Guerra, I have heard a response to the reasons why, at the Conference of the Capigroup, I asked for the bill on citizenship to be scheduled after the adoption of the budget law. [[Senator De Petris' comments.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-919.ana.u237	Quiet! ZANDA (PD). I therefore have to repeat what I said at the Conference of the Leaders in this House. The citizenship measure has many thousands of amendments and we cannot believe that it can be adopted without a vote of confidence. I hope that the government will have confidence and, indeed, I have a strong expectation that this will happen. At the same time, however, I must say that I do not see a majority in this House at the moment who can give a vote of confidence on the citizenship bill. Therefore, since we still have to approve the draft budget at third reading, and knowing that, if we do not approve it, the country will go into the provisional exercise, with all the political and - I stress - social consequences that this entails
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-919.ana.u238	[[Applause from the PD and AP-CpE-NCD groups and Senator Repetti]] It would have been irresponsible of me to put at this risk not the Democratic Party, not the Group of Senators of the PD, but Italy and the economic and social balance of the country. We have the opportunity to do our work as quickly as possible and, after that, to bring the citizenship measure to the attention of this House - and I hope to approve it. I also want to say that I do not know when Parliament will be dissolved - and I do not suppose any of us know that because the dissolution of the Chambers is not our prerogative - so it is right that the timetable that the Conference of Leaders approved, and that President Grasso has read in this Chamber, provides for the adoption of the draft budget law and only after it alone. [[Applause from the PD and AP-CpE-NCD groups and Senator Repetti.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-919.ana.u239	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-919.ana.u240	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-919.ana.u241	ROMANI Paolo (FI-PdL XVII). Mr President, we welcome the act of realism of the majority in the words of President Zanda: there was no possibility of passing the bill on citizenship. There was no such thing as at least the majority wanted to approve it, i.e. there was no possibility of a vote of confidence. The fact that it was included in the calendar after the draft budget law means and I believe that the public statements made just a few minutes ago also certify and ratify it - that obviously there is no chance of approving it. I imagined that during the debate in the Capigroup we could approve a timetable that provided for an order of measures that were widely shared, so it is true that we had asked that there be, in this order, the provision on witnesses of justice, the one on the election of members of the Presidency Councils in number of six and the nominations CONI. Long mediation has also been attempted in relation to the provision on the protection of orphans following family crimes. In addition, an amendment to that measure was included in the draft budget law which at first seemed to have solved the problem. But then the majority realized that the measure that was under discussion was still necessary. We were sorry that we did not manage to find a solution in the Commission, which we had expressed at any rate and which seemed at first to see the favourable position of the majority groups. Then, someone decided that instead they wanted to keep the text in its original version. Therefore, I do not know whether that measure will be easily approved by this House. It may be that in the day and a half that we have at our disposal, all we can do is approve the first measure on the calendar, and I do not know if the second one will succeed. However, this would also be a missed opportunity because, as far as we are concerned, we agreed: it was enough to extend the protection of minors to all crimes, that is to say to all those who are victims of voluntary murders. It seemed to me like a solution that could be good for everyone. Then, for those logics typical of the parliamentary bodies, it was not possible to arrive at a solution. That's too bad, because maybe we're gonna miss a chance. I therefore repeat my request, Mr President: a measure on the witnesses of justice, the election of the members of the Administrative Justice Councils, the Court of Auditors and tax justice and the appointment of CONI. That was the order we asked for.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-919.ana.u242	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-919.ana.u243	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-919.ana.u244	Mr Barani (ALA). Mr President, we agree with the timetable you have read. Let us just ask you - and I will be very brief - that from this evening, when we voted on the timetable, we begin the general discussion on the draft law on the protection of witnesses of justice, otherwise here we speak well and we are not doing well. They say we don't have time and we have to hurry. But if we all go home, that means we don't want to do it. We want to approve both the measure on the protection of witnesses of justice, the one on orphans of domestic crimes, and the one on the health professions - I have seen that colleagues of the League share this view - and the one on the election of the six members of the Administrative Justice Presidency Council, the Court of Auditors and tax justice, as said by Senator Romani. Of course, in fifth place there is the measure on the bodies of the CONI - as has been said - in sixth place the budget and then it alone, to which the majority of our Group is in favour. Just as we are in favour of preventing violent jihadist extremism. We therefore ask you, Mr President, not to interrupt the sitting, but to continue until 9 p.m. or 22 p.m., with the general debate, so that we can conclude at least all the points we have included on the timetable.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-919.ana.u245	Senator Barani, you may not be aware that a mass will be held at 8 p.m. for parliamentary senators, in which a number of Members have expressed the need to participate. So, around 7.30 p.m., we will conclude the sitting - and I can anticipate that - in such a way that everyone can adjust accordingly.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-919.ana.u246	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-919.ana.u247	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-919.ana.u248	Mr Giovanardi (PL-Id) Mr President, I would like to make a few points. As for the vitalities, I believe I am one of those who will earn with the pay system, when I will soon finish my parliamentary activity. The problem is not of parliamentarians, but of artisans, traders and direct farmers, it is of millions of Italians. If, in fact, the retroactive principle of transforming the pay system into a contribution is passed, it will have the legitimacy of the drastic cut in pensions for millions of workers. And there we will arrive, because it is clear that, if the retroactive principle passes, millions of people will be touched by a demagogic initiative. I am therefore absolutely opposed to this. I also insist on examining the provision on witnesses of justice. And we speak not of the repentant, but of the people who risk their lives and that of their family to testify in favor of justice, having been witnesses of crimes, but strangers to them. On the other hand, I have many doubts about the provision on orphans of domestic crimes, because the measure is not about domestic crimes or orphans, but it is about anything else. If we want to have the debate, we will obviously use all the time to explain that, if the measure is not extended to the real orphans, those who remain without father and mother, it is a completely useless measure. Finally, Mr President, I ask you, in the remaining time, to put on the agenda the debate on a case that seems truly incredible to me. In August last year we decided to arrest my colleague Antonio Caridi, who has been in prison for sixteen months. Antonio Caridi, after sixteen months, is in prison without the judiciary having yet to decide whether it is legitimate for him to remain in prison: we voted before the court of freedom, which confirmed custody. The cassation, six months ago, rescinded the incarceration in the absence of any clues. We're back on appeal. The appeal has postponed the provision in Cassation and now I read that a week ago the sixth criminal section has again canceled with postponement the order of the court of Reggio Calabria that had confirmed the provision. So after 16 months in prison, our colleague and we still don't know whether custody is legitimate or not. And I'm not talking about referral to trial. We are talking about Resistance, Liberation and Democracy. I believe, however, that democracy is also a system that does not allow a person to be imprisoned for sixteen months without even deciding whether or not this is legitimate. And already twice the cassation has said that there are no elements. It's Christmas. You have a calm conscience and rest assured. I'm less relaxed, knowing that this Senate authorized the arrest and that after 16 months, that's still the situation. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Excuse me, Senator Giovanardi, but what does this have to do with the calendar? Mr Giovanardi (PL-Id) I would also like the House to find the time to reflect on justice, since it was we who authorised the arrest; justice that after sixteen months has not been able to say whether or not the arrest is legitimate. And I'm not talking about the merits of the charges or the remand, who knows when they're coming.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-919.ana.u249	Senator Giovanardi, if I understand correctly, do you want to remove from the calendar the provision on orphans and domestic crimes? Is this your request for a change in the calendar? The provision on witnesses of justice is already in first place. Mr Giovanardi (PL-Id) The risk is not to pass widely shared billing and on which the expectation is great, like that on witnesses of justice. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. He's already in first place.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-919.ana.u250	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-919.ana.u251	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-919.ana.u252	MINEO (Misto-SI-SEL-LEU). Mr President, I have met with the representatives of the witnesses of justice and, therefore, I feel obliged to confirm the request that this measure be first place, because we can launch it immediately and it is very much felt. But immediately after the question of the witnesses of justice, I call for the order of the day to be reversed and for the bill on citizenship to be included. I would like to say to President Zanda that this Parliament has just shown that it is able to approve very quickly and without the need for impositions - there has been pressure from the Government of the majority throughout the legislature - very difficult measures, such as the one on the biological will and now also the reform of the Senate Rules, for which we have had... MIRABELLI (PD). They don't vote for him! MINEO (Misto-SI-SEL-LEU). It doesn't matter. [[Comments from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-919.ana.u253	Let Senator Mineo speak.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-919.ana.u254	MINEO (Misto-SI-SEL-LEU). The basic point is this: when dealing with the real problems, this Parliament does not need goats moving to the orders of people who often stay out of here, but... [[Protests from the PD Group.]] Sangalli (PD). Caproni to whom? MINEO (Misto-SI-SEL-LEU). ...can very well decide - I'm also speaking for you, partner - with his head. Then I say that a law of civilization can be passed very quickly. I, too, Mr President, received those postcards. There's a guy from Rome who says, It is incredible the bureaucratic universe that separates me from schoolmates and universitymates. This guy speaks Italian better than I do, and we don't consider him Italian. I have faith in all parliamentarians, not as someone who sounded. Therefore, I say that we can deal with the citizenship measure and decide before we run the risk of going to the provisional exercise. [[Applause from the Mixed Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-919.ana.u255	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-919.ana.u256	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-919.ana.u257	GATTI (Rule 1-MDP-LEU). Mr President, I too believe that the measure on the protection of witnesses of justice is of great value and must therefore be addressed. But throughout this legislature... [[Senator Caleo's comments.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-919.ana.u258	Senator Caleo, please.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-919.ana.u259	Mr Caleo (PD). Mr President, did you not notice that we were given goats? DE PETRIS (Misto-SI-SEL-LEU). You must be ashamed! Mr Caleo (PD). We don't have to be ashamed. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Let's not interrupt Senator Gatti. GATTI (Rule 1-MDP-LEU). Mr President, I too am asking that, immediately after the measure on the protection of witnesses of justice, the measure on citizenship be dealt with. Like you guys, I got postcards from a bunch of guys. The ashtag is: Italian without citizenship. What I have in my hand at this moment is the postcard of Marwa, who sent us a picture of her first grade, together with all her companions, at the school "Mother Teresa of Calcutta" in Massenzatico. He tells us that, to celebrate the first day as an Italian citizen, he had to wait twenty-three years. I'll use his words: Until then I had often felt a strange feeling: as if I were holding a vital examination every day, always postponed. A feeling that alienates you and makes you different from your classmates, from school, work and life, until your country, Italy, is officially sanctioned. Mr President, I think that these people must be answered. I am aware that there are difficulties and that the Government, in order to pass this measure in such a short time, would need to put trust. But that is what I am asking and declaring the willingness, even by an opposition force, to vote for confidence in this measure. [[Applause from the Mixed Groups and Art.1-MDP-LEU.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-919.ana.u260	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-919.ana.u261	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-919.ana.u262	PETRAGLIA (Misto-SI-SEL-LEU). Mr President, I too would like to propose a reversal of your proposed timetable in order to ask for the timetable for the citizenship bill immediately and I believe that it is necessary and necessary to do so also in the light of the nervousness that accompanies this House today and, in particular, my colleagues in the Democratic Party, who obviously have difficulty in justifying their choices on the outside. It may be, Mr Zanda, that we will not have the votes to vote on confidence, that we too have declared ourselves willing to vote. However, in making my own words that often use the friends and colleagues of the 5 Star Movement, I think it is so necessary, useful and priority to approve this bill, that then each of us will respond to the citizens outside during the election campaign. True Italy is not that of social media, but it is the one we meet every day in the workplace, in schools. The real Italy is of all those guys who are writing to us these days. To me - for example - he wrote Mohamed di Treviso, who has lived in Italy for twenty-three years and is considered foreign, who at 5 a.m. has to line up for fingerprints to renew the residence permit. A little courage and we vote for the reversal of the timetable. [[Applause from the Mixed Groups and Art.1-MDP-LEU.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-919.ana.u263	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-919.ana.u264	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-919.ana.u265	Campanella (Art.1-MDP-LEU). Mr President, in this House, in recent years, I have seen that thesis is often carried out for exquisitely electoral reasons, beyond the ethical assessment that is made of what is said. I have often seen footage with children of foreign nationality who speak Italian not only well, but even with the same inflection as their classmates, and therefore with Neapolitan inflection, Palermo, Milanese. Closed its eyes, it is difficult to distinguish, hearing him speak, a young boy who comes from Gambia and one who comes from the province of Sondrio. If that were clear to us, we would understand the reason for our insistence on this provision. I would like to point out that it would be important for us to be able to say what we know to be true. A few days ago I saw a colleague giggling at another person's assertion that the citizenship measure can be voted on in the end. I know why he did it. It's not incomprehensible. We know that this will not be the case after the budget law. It is not true, Mr Zanda, that we do not know when the legislature will end. Nobody put it in writing, because the decision is the responsibility of the Head of State. But we know perfectly well - and we all know this - that, after the budget law, there will be nothing else, and that is precisely why I am asking for the citizenship measure to be dealt with immediately after that on orphans of feminicide. I also like to point out that among the postcards we received is that of a boy who has citizenship. He is called Pablo and comes from far away, from Latin America, who, being the son of old migrants, finds himself having citizenship when his companions who have been in our country for longer than he does not have it. I believe that this is a matter of justice, because even before we respond to citizens, we must respond to our consciences, because we cannot hide from them. [[Applause from the Mixed Groups and Art.1-MDP-LEU.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-919.ana.u266	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-919.ana.u267	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-919.ana.u268	BOCCHINO (Misto-SI-SEL-LEU). Mr President, if Parliament is the place where we speak, then I think it is worth spending the 48 hours that separate us from the draft budget law, closing and chaining us here to discuss an authentic law of civilization, the law on citizenship, which - let us remember - has nothing to do with the phenomenon of the immigration of boats, a spectacle which we sadly have to attend every day. In this way we also disassemble a false narrative that links the two events and aims to make earth burned to what is an authentic bill of civilization, that is, the provision in the matter of citizenship. It is a bill that has to do instead with people born in Italy from parents who live permanently and regularly in our country or who have arrived and have completed the path of education, just like Younes, currently resident in Reggio Emilia, who for eight years has lived here in Italy: he arrived in Naples, attended the ITIS "Ettore Majorana" of the Municipality of Somma Vesuviana and today speaks the dialect Neapolitan and attends the university in Reggio Emilia. Younes says that although he speaks of course Italian and dialect, he is still not officially Italian and, even if he follows politics, he does not yet have the right to vote. Here, this is a measure that concerns people who are now Italian to all intents and purposes except for an ancient and unjust law. Therefore, I would ask that the examination of the citizenship bill be anticipated. We're gonna get stuck in here until we find the necessary arrangements to approve it. In any case, everyone takes responsibility for their choice or not chosen for this measure and responds to it before the voters in the next election campaign. [[Applause from the Mixed-SI-SEL-LEU and Art.1-MDP-LEU Groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-919.ana.u269	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-919.ana.u270	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-919.ana.u271	LO MORO (Art. 1-MDP-LEU). Mr President, this is not the first time that I have asked for the citizenship measure to be included in the timetable and I repeat that I believe that it should be adopted before the draft budget law. I also take the opportunity to say, on the understanding that we have all received postcards and that these have been sent by people in the flesh, many of whom we have known personally, that it is unacceptable to conclude this parliamentary term with an act of hypocrisy. President Zanda probably believes in it, in fact I am convinced that he really believes in it, or rather that he really believed in it once that one could reach the approval of the ius soli. It is unacceptable, however, the answer given to him by Forza Italia, by President Romani, who has already revealed the mystery that nothing else will be approved. I do not think that on Christmas Eve we can hand over to the 800,000 kids who are waiting for this measure an act of hypocrisy, so we will get to vote on the draft budget law and then break the ranks. We must vote on the measure on the orphans of feminicide and also on the one on the witnesses of justice and worry about having the numbers and the legal number to approve the draft budget law, because the other day the majority did not have it. I firmly believe that we should be concerned about having the legal number, but we all have a duty not to be hypocrites and we cannot pretend to have voted on the biological will when we needed the votes of others, and instead now we give up not to say one simple thing, namely that we should test ourselves whether or not there are these votes. I am sure that the votes would be there, because the people who are attached to the chair of this majority, the Ministers attached to the chair until the last moment, from which they will be detached only to go to the elections, perhaps in completely different rows, would not miss the opportunity to make the election campaign by Ministers. I think we should just have courage or stop being hypocrites. [[Applause from the Groups Art.1-MDP-LEU and Mixed-SI-SEL-LEU.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-919.ana.u272	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-919.ana.u273	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-919.ana.u274	TOCCI (PD). Mr President, it is a serious mistake to conclude the parliamentary term without discussing the law on citizenship and the Richetti bill on vitality in this House. I would like to point out that this latest bill has been approved in the House for a strong initiative by our party. Both measures could be approved earlier, they can still be approved this week or next week, or the timetable of work can be extended until the beginning of January, as they are measures of parliamentary initiative that do not call into question the stability of the government. It is discussed in the Chamber; it is approved or rejected; each Group takes responsibility for the country. I therefore call for the draft law presented by Mr Richetti to be included on the agenda. I ask that the law on citizenship be inserted immediately after the draft law on orphans of domestic crimes, providing for the budget law next week, without risking the provisional exercise. These are two great political issues: in the ius soli, the degree of civilization of the country and the quality of our school are at stake, which must be able to recognize all its students as Italian citizens. The teachers reminded us a little while ago in a beautiful torchlight in front of Montecitorio. On vitality is at stake the prestige of the Senate, which has a duty to express itself on a relevant proposal, already approved by the House and - in my opinion - to be approved here too. Both issues are for the public's attention. It is discussed on buses, in workplaces, in public assemblies and in chatter among friends, even in the family home. It discusses the whole country with the exception of this House. It is a contradiction that hurts Parliament and its members. I regret to say that there is a dissenting position, but neither has a confrontation been possible within the Group of the Democratic Party. Time has not been lacking on the ius soli e sui vitalizi: so far the will has been lacking. There has been self-harmful political management for the Democratic Party and damaging to the country. I hope it is still possible to correct the calendar; otherwise I would just add: not in my name. [[Applause from the Mixed-SI-SEL-LEU and Art.1-MDP-LEU Groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-919.ana.u275	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-919.ana.u276	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-919.ana.u277	VACCIANO (Mixed). Mr President, it may seem a minor matter, but I would ask for a small time window between today and Saturday for the debate on the Senate Act 57-bis, which - as should be known - concerns the fight against the financing of anti-personnel mines, sent back to the Chambers with a message motivated by the Presidency of the Republic. Commission 6a has very quickly approved the amendment to correct this measure. This is something that we inherited from the last parliamentary term, which has already made three parliamentary passages and comes from the collaboration of all political forces. It has been approved unanimously in the Commission and, if you like, with a minimum of goodwill, in a quarter of an hour the Senate is able to dismiss it and pass it on to the other House. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] I do not know if the other House will have the opportunity to discuss it, but on our part it would be a very significant gesture of civilization to approve this measure that requires a minimum commitment and a time window, because it is the result of an initiative of the Democratic Party, but also of the whole parliamentary arc, in a climate that deserves the final award of approval by the end of the legislature. [[Applause from the M5S Group and Senator Bencini.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-919.ana.u278	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-919.ana.u279	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-919.ana.u280	Mr Manconi (PD). Mr President, senators and senators, since I became interested in immigration - a quarter of a century now, alas - I have never used the rhetoric of solidarity or the mystic of good feelings. I have always used categories of economy and demography as essential to deal with this problem with seriousness and rationality. Therefore, to support the opportunity for a change in the order of business and the timetable, I will certainly not resort to some form of sentimentalism. Here we are talking exclusively about rights and duties. In the last few hours I have received a very important and significant text for both its contents and for the signatures of those who have signed it. Their names are that of Rosa Russo Iervolino, Enzo Bianco, Annamaria Cancellieri, Beppe Pisanu: four former ministers of the interior of the last twenty years, who support in that text how the law on citizenship and its reform constitute a valuable and essential contribution to collective security; a valuable and essential contribution to the peaceful coexistence between Italians and foreigners; a valuable and essential contribution to the integration and strengthening of the social bond. The opinion of these, who have been men of state and responsible for public order, is added to that of the current Minister of the Interior, Marco Minniti, a person from whom I share deep reasons for dissent, precisely on the subject of immigration, but who forty-eight hours ago, regarding the reform of citizenship, said that there is no lack of time, lacks courage. Well, in politics, courage is not a heroic virtue: it is simply a manifestation of political intelligence and wisdom. On this occasion I fear there has been a serious lack of political wisdom and intelligence in refusing to schedule such a reasonable, wise and balanced provision. [[Applause from the Mixed-SI-SEL-LEU and Art.1-MDP-LEU Groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-919.ana.u281	We shall now proceed to the vote. I put to the vote the proposal to amend the timetable for the Assembly's work to include as the first point the examination of the draft law on citizenship rules. It's not approved. WAR (Art. 1-MDP-LEU). Let's ask for a rehearsal. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I order the doors closed. We proceed to counter-test by electronic procedure. It's not approved. I put to the vote the proposal to amend the schedule of the Assembly's proceedings to include on Friday the examination of the bill on the abolition of vitalities, made by Senator Endrizzi. It's not approved. SANTANGELO (M5S). Let's ask for a rehearsal. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I order the doors closed. We proceed to counter-test by electronic procedure. It's not approved. Mr Russo (PD). You can't take pictures in the courtroom. The rules apply to everyone! PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Let us move on to the detailed proposal to amend the timetable for the work of the Assembly put forward by Senator Centinario, who has reversed the various priorities, including as the first point the examination of the measure on the abolition of vitalities. This part of the proposal, however, is foreclosed and cannot be voted on.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-919.ana.u282	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-919.ana.u283	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-919.ana.u284	Hundreds of thousands (LN-Aut). Mr President, you voted on the 5 Star Movement Group's proposal to include the debate on the measure on Friday. I propose that we examine it on Thursday.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-919.ana.u285	Okay. You propose that this be inserted as a first point and, therefore, that we look at it tomorrow. Therefore, we vote for his proposal in its entirety: first the bill on the abolition of vitalities, then the one on the health professions, to follow the Molteni bill, the norms on the prevention of violent jihadist extremism and then the ius solo. Is that your proposal? Hundreds of thousands (LN-Aut). No! PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Is there anything else? Hundreds of thousands (LN-Aut). Mr President, it is not because the ius soli is a little high in the order of priorities. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. He said it, though. Hundreds of thousands (LN-Aut). Mr President, I would have proposed it as the last of the last points, the XXXVII legislature, and therefore the day of never! I said that, but he forgot another set of points: he only listed two or three. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I listed exactly what you said. Anyway, if someone skipped, you can repeat them. Hundreds of thousands (LN-Aut). I marked them here: the abolition of vitalities, the bill on health professions, the Molteni bill... president. That's how far we go. Hundreds of thousands (LN-Aut). The bill on witnesses of justice, orphans of domestic crimes, jihadist extremism, etc. Mr Loius soli no longer says so, though. Hundreds of thousands (LN-Aut). Of course, the ius soli goes to the end, to the XXXVII legislature, that is never. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. All right. Then he changed his demands. I put to the vote the proposal to amend the schedule of proceedings of the Assembly put forward by Senator Centinario. It's not approved. I'll take the rehearsal. I order the doors closed. We proceed to counter-test by electronic procedure. It's not approved. After that there is Senator Romani's proposal to change the order of the items included in the calendar according to these priorities: draft law on the protection of witnesses of justice, vote for the election of the members of the Councils of Presidency of administrative justice, Court of Auditors and tax justice and the bill on the limit to the renewal of CONI mandates. Exactly, Senator Romani? ROMANI Paolo (FI-PdL XVII). Yes, ma'am. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I put to the vote the proposal to amend the schedule of proceedings of the Assembly put forward by Senator Romani Paolo. It's not approved. I'll take the rehearsal. Mr Calderoli (Misto-LpSP). Who asked for it? PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I'll take care of it. I order the doors closed. We proceed to counter-test by electronic procedure. It's not approved. I put to the vote the proposal to amend the schedule of the Assembly's proceedings to include the examination of bill no. 57 /bis on anti-personnel mines, sent back to the Chambers by the President of the Republic. It's not approved. SANTANGELO (M5S). Let's ask for a rehearsal. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I order the doors closed. We proceed to counter-test by electronic procedure. It's not approved. I put to the vote the proposed amendment, made by Senator Giovanardi, aimed at expelling the bill on orphans of domestic crimes from the calendar of proceedings of the Assembly. It's not approved. The timetable for proceedings adopted by a majority of the Conference of Leaders and communicated by me to the Assembly remains therefore final.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-919.ana.u286	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-919.ana.u287	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-919.ana.u288	Borioli (PD). Mr President, in recent days the court of Alexandria has rejected the request for prior agreement presented by the current management of the Borsalino, opening in fact the bankruptcy procedure entrusted now to the liquidation commissioners. Obviously, the first and most important concern that this scenario evokes concerns the future of the 135 workers currently employed at the factory living the paradoxical situation of having questioned the fruits of the sacrifices and efforts made in recent years to raise the fate of a company that the fraudulent bankruptcy of the previous management had brought to the abyss. It seems inconceivable, but this decision takes place right now at a time when, with the work of these two years, the new ownership and the workers of the plant have managed to lift its fate, determining, only this year, a turnover of more than 17 million, regaining markets and orders. All of this is now in danger of being called into question and jumping over previous responsibilities. Now, I lose little time to remind everyone, if need be, that in addition to the concerns for the workers, who are the first, the Borsalino (and I say this with a certain pride as a parliamentarians of the territory) represents a brand whose values go far beyond the only, even important, productive reality. Borsalino is not only the most famous hat factory in the world but is a fundamental part of the history of Italian industrialization, it is one of the pillars of the genetic code of what we today call made in Italy, of which we are proud today, it is a name that crowds modern iconography, in the cinema through the actors Bogart and Bergman, Belmondo and Delon.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-919.ana.u289	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-919.ana.u290	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-919.ana.u291	LAI (PD). Madam President, I only speak in this Chamber to leave it to the record that my final vote on the provision on advance treatment provisions is not, as has been recorded, negative, but positive. I strongly voted in favour of all the articles, I voted against all the amendments, convinced of the importance of finally voting on the rule as approved by the other branch of Parliament. I consider biotestament another piece, with civil unions, of this difficult legislature, in the direction of a more just and dignified society, respectful of rights and civil coexistence.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-919.ana.u292	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-919.ana.u293	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-919.ana.u294	BLUNDO (M5S). Madam President, colleagues from all the groups, I should like to point out that my speech at the end of the sitting is an abnormal one. I am referring to the earthquake of nine years ago, which destroyed the Eagle and which was to be investigated by the appropriate Commission of Inquiry into the reconstruction of the Eagle I requested, which was approved but not obtained. All this represents a very dangerous precedent - and, moreover, unprecedented - which endangers for the future the possibility of carrying out the investigations within the competence of the parliamentary committees of inquiry. I denounce the behaviour of those who, hostile to the Commission, have managed to slow down its investigation, despite having approved a resolution of the Shareholders' Meeting published in the Official Journal of the Italian Republic. The precedents teach that the Senate has always guaranteed the functionality of the Committees of Inquiry, providing for the replacement of the office of any resigned members in order to ensure the good performance of the work, in compliance with the basic principle of reasonableness, in order to ensure the good performance of the works and activities of the Senate. It is therefore quite clear that, together with the Constitution, the Rules of Procedure, which was the subject of our work today, have not been enforced, violating an obligation not only political but also above all legal, distorting a basic principle of every rule of law. I protest for the serious offense caused to our prerogatives and the Senate all because, pursuant to Rule 8 of the Rules of Procedure, it is the President who has the burden and the honor to regulate the activities of the Senate bodies and to ensure, by giving the necessary directives, the good performance of the Senate Administration. He should therefore have appointed members of the groups automatically because of the obstructionism shown; Groups that have intentionally and reluctantly chosen to sabotage the investigation. The Commission would also have made it possible to clarify the very serious events which occurred at the time of the post-seismal reconstruction, as shown today in the Committee of Inquiry into the banking system. It would therefore have been fundamental for L'Aquila, for the whole country and the many cities, villages and municipalities that are knowing on their own skin the same dynamic criminals that we, in L'Aquila, have already lived. You have done all this without any shame and repentance: a behavior that will soon be judged with the vow of the eagles and Italians all who know well that fear can have a utility, but cowardice has none.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-919.ana.u295	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-919.ana.u296	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-919.ana.u297	BAROZZINO (Misto-SI-SEL-LEU). Madam President, in the era of jobs act we had to witness - from my point of view - a degradation of unprecedented civilizations, which has reduced the world of work in our country practically to slavery. Now you can quit if you are sick; you can quit if you care for a sick child; you can quit if you get pregnant; you can quit practically always and without giving any explanation. You can pay and underpay workers; you can pay with food stamps and you can also not pay. I've been reading some news lately that I don't really have any comments to make about. In a call center - where young people who go to university work, our children - a worker - if you can call it that - was paid 33 cents an hour. In our country, therefore, in addition to all that I have said with reference to all the proponents of the jobs act of democracy and avant-garde, one can pay a girl who studied and went to university 33 cents an hour. This is the shame that those who have produced the jobs act deliver to the country, an unprecedented shame, of which sooner or later you will have to account, especially the workers who unfortunately suffer this disaster. [[Applause from the Misso-SI-SEL-Leu Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-919.ana.u298	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-919.ana.u299	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-919.ana.u300	EXPOSED Stefano (PD). Madam President, in this House we have also addressed, through a motion, the issue of the main Italian local public transport company, the Roman ATAC. We have worked in these months - indeed, perhaps in the last year and a half - offering the availability, both of the Senate and of the Government, for aid to the rehabilitation of the company itself. I recall that we voted with a large majority on a motion which enabled the Rome administration to request the use of the Marzano law. I quote this fact because unfortunately another important company, that of Turin, the GTT, is in a difficult financial condition. It takes 130 million to avoid failure, and here too - unfortunately, President, there is no longer time to do the work we did in the Commission, before, and in the Chamber, after, on ATAC - the solution of access to the Marzano law, which would guarantee the restoration, maintenance of jobs and the relaunch of the company is in the possibilities of the single member of GTT, which is the Municipality of Turin. I would like to leave it on the record of this House, for the work that has been done, that access to the Marzano law is an opportunity which, again in this case, the Government - as confirmed to me by Minister Calenda - is willing to assess if the request is made. I also want to say that this possibility remains and will be possible - always, of course, at the discretion of the member city of Turin - even during the period of dissolution of the Chambers. Unfortunately, since there are thousands of families at stake, it is important that there remains evidence of the willingness of the Government and the fact that this Assembly already with ATAC had made this possibility available, so that no one should say that it was eventually denied by the Government by will or by the fact that the Chambers were dissolved.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-919.ana.u301	The motions, questions and questions received by the Presidency will be published in Annex B to today's report.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-919.ana.u302	The Senate will meet again in public tomorrow, 21 December, at 9.30 a.m., with the following agenda: (See agenda) The sitting was closed at 19.07.
