ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-834.ana.u1	The sitting was opened at 16.31 a.m. The Minutes shall be read. Mr Amati, secretary, read the Minutes of the sitting of the previous day. PRESIDENT. - The debate is Since there were no comments, the Minutes were approved.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-834.ana.u2	The list of senators on leave and absent on assignment received from the Senate, as well as further communications to the Assembly, will be published in Annex B to today's Minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-834.ana.u3	I would warn you that qualified votes can be taken in the course of today's sitting by electronic means. Therefore, from this moment the period of 20 minutes from the notice provided for in Article 119, paragraph 1, of the Regulation (at 16,33 hours) begins.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-834.ana.u4	The next item is the debate on draft law Nos. 951 and 1082, in the unified text proposed by the Commission. The working rapporteur, Senator Torrisi, asked for permission to carry out the oral report. No comments were made and the request was accepted. I therefore call the working rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-834.ana.u5	, f. f. Madam President, the text proposed by the Commission to the Assembly provides for the detachment of the Municipality of Sappada from the Veneto Province of Belluno and the consequent aggregation to the Friuli-Venezia Giulia Region within the Province of Udine. The proposed text, approved by the Commission on 2 February 2016, is part of the procedure referred to in Article 132 (2) of the Constitution, which provides that Provinces and Municipalities applying for it are detached from one Region and aggregated to another when the request of the entity concerned, after popular referendum and after hearing the regional councils, is approved by law of the Republic. It seems useful to remember that the constitutional provision does not distinguish on the basis of the ordinary or special nature of the Region, a theme that assumes particular interest in the case under consideration, as the Municipality of Sappada asks for the detachment from the Veneto Region and the annexation to the Friuli-Venezia Giulia Region, whose Statute has been approved by constitutional law. The need for a constitutional law is also excluded from Article 46 of Law No 352 of 25 May 1970 (Rules on referendums provided for by the Constitution on the legislative initiative of the people), where, defining the characteristics of the legislative act by which the Municipality is to be aggregated to another Region, it is established that such an act must be an ordinary law. This reading is also confirmed by the decision of the Constitutional Court no. 66 of 2007 concerning the detachment of the Municipality of Noasca from the Piedmont Region and the aggregation to the Valle D'Aosta. According to this judgment, in fact, the provisions of the aforementioned article 132 refer to all the Regions, without exceptions to the procedure if one of the Regions concerned is endowed with a statute approved by constitutional law. It should be recalled that in 2008 the Municipality of Sappada carried out the prescribed referendum with a broadly favourable outcome and that the request meets the requirements, provided for by law, of geographical continuity, economic and social homogeneity and historical-cultural proximity of the Municipality of Sappada to the Region of destination.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-834.ana.u6	I declare the general discussion open. He is enlisted to speak Senator Divine. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-834.ana.u7	Madam President, Parliament has certainly not shone with efficiency in giving answers to the territories. I may be wrong, but it seems to me that in the last two legislatures we have managed to respond only to the citizens of Alta Valmarecchia, split into several areas, one in the Province of Arezzo and the other on the Emilian side, and we have recompose the unity of the valley. We should have finished the routes of Cinto Caomaggiore, Magasa and Valvestino, but there are still no government measures, that is the act to which the Government must provide and we hope that Sappada too will see the end of this path. I would like to remind you that the measures of local competence, already exhausted, have been defined for the Asiago Plateau and the seven Municipalities; for Pedemonte and Casotto, Municipalities that have always gravitated in the area of Trentino, belonged until 1918 to the historic Tyrol and until 1929 to the Province of Trento, which today are located in the Province of Vicenza and ask to return to their history and previous location; for Lamon and Sovermonte, two other Municipalities of the Belluno area that are basically an enclave that gravits around the banks of the Cismon stream, so in the Trentino area. Even to pass from a valley in Trentino to another valley in Trentino, that is, from Valsugana to Primiero, you cross this small gorge that is located in the neighbouring Provinces: these municipalities have already concluded, since 2005, therefore twelve years ago, all the procedures and are waiting for Parliament to play its part. I would like to remind you that our Constitution has identified and based the freedom of citizens to recognise themselves in the body they consider most appropriate. This freedom is often not respected by the institutions themselves, who even bypass the Constitution, because our fundamental Charter establishes that the majority of the inhabitants of a municipality can decide by referendum, a free, popular and democratic consultation, to be aggregated to another municipality, another province or another region. The referendum is completed, therefore the law provides that the regional councils of the two Regions are heard, that of posting and that of aggregation, where the term "heard" means that the opinion of the Region should not even be binding, after which, by law of the State, the new geography is established. Our Constitution states that citizens are free to stay with whom they want, as long as they want and where they want, and to move from one Province to another, from one Region to another and also to form new Provinces. The Constitution gives this great freedom to communities and Parliament cannot deny it. Promoting committees that for twelve to fifteen years have exhausted the procedures, respecting the stages provided for in the Constitution, then find the body state - I am referring to Parliament and the Government - that does not transpose their will. Colleagues, you draw your own conclusions on what kind of respect there can be in those countries for a state that has no respect for them at all. In conclusion, Madam President, I have spoken to say that we are more than in agreement in closing the game and let the decision taken by the citizens of Sappada to leave Veneto and join the Friuli-Venezia Giulia Region is implemented. We respect their decision, but - I am addressing both Parliament and the Government - we must also respect all the other communities, fractions and municipalities that have asked in other ways to make transfers similar to that of Sappada. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-834.ana.u8	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-834.ana.u9	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-834.ana.u10	TORRISI, f. f. rapporteur. Madam President, given the absence of the rapporteur, Senator Bisinella, who was prevented for electoral reasons, I would ask that, if all the parliamentary groups agree, the continuation of the general debate be postponed to another sitting.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-834.ana.u11	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-834.ana.u12	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-834.ana.u13	Mr Giovanardi (PL-Id) Madam President, I can agree with the request made by Senator Torrisi. However, in my experience, remembering that when I was Minister for Relations with Parliament I obtained after years that a similar issue was resolved, which had seen respect for the entire administrative procedure and concerned the Provinces, I know that there is a way in which the institutions may not respond to the needs of the citizens: do not say yes or no to a proposal. I therefore agree with the proposal made by Senator Torrisi that the debate should be postponed for fifteen days so that the rapporteur is present, but I appeal to everyone to receive a response from Parliament from the citizens of Sappada - which I hope will be positive, for reasons of principle - and this matter will not be lost in nothing until the end of the parliamentary term.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-834.ana.u14	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-834.ana.u15	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-834.ana.u16	BELLOT (Misto-Fare!). Madam President, we also confirm our willingness to postpone the debate, as requested by the rapporteur, Senator Torrisi. However, it is also important for us that there should be no forgetfulness in the timetable and the work organisations that lead to longer time limits for examining the measure. Today's postponement sees us online, but provided that there is a commitment to complete the examination of the measure, with its final vote. I would remind you that, with regard to the story of Sappada, in 2008 the referendum promoted by the committees took place, moreover with a resolution to recommend 2007. A procedural procedure has therefore been followed which does not sin at all, not even on the numbers: the referendum saw a plebiscytic response, with the quorum doubly exceeded. This work is absolutely impeccable, also with reference to the opinions expressed by the Senate Commissions. Therefore, we strongly call for the examination of the measure to be carried out and for the final vote to be reached, thus finally giving an answer to the citizens who, a year ago - on 16 March 2016 - unfortunately received a big scorn from this House, with the withdrawal of the measure before the debate even began. In conclusion, the commitment that I also ask you, Madam President, is to monitor that the debate on the measure resumes as soon as possible and that the final vote be reached. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator Bellot, we will also do so at the Conference of Leaders.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-834.ana.u17	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-834.ana.u18	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-834.ana.u19	Mr Russo (PD). Madam President, I am speaking only to reiterate, also on behalf of the Democratic Party, the request that as soon as Senator Bisinella is available, having clearly concluded her electoral commitment, we should be able to examine the measure again in this House. In fact, I really believe that the request of the citizens of Sappada, who also expressed themselves through a referendum, almost plebiscite, must find an appropriate echo in this House. I would ask the Presidency to ensure that, at the first appropriate and possible moment, the measure is recalendered and brought to the Chamber.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-834.ana.u20	In the absence of any comments, I shall refer the discussion of the draft legislation back to another sitting.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-834.ana.u21	We welcome the students and teachers of the Istituto tecnico commerciale (Commercial Technical Institute) Francesco Saverio Nitti in Potenza, who attend our work. Welcome to the Senate. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-834.ana.u22	The next item is the debate on draft law No 2093. The rapporteur, Senator Capacchione, requested authorisation to carry out the oral report. No comments were made and the request was accepted. I therefore call the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-834.ana.u23	Madam President, the draft law No 2093, on the initiative of Senator Bottici and other senators, contains the proposal for the establishment of a two-cameral committee of inquiry - for a period of 12 months - on the events which have taken place in the Il Forteto community, a reception centre for disadvantaged children under the supervision of the court, with an adjoining agricultural cooperative. Before examining the measure, it is appropriate to take account, albeit briefly, of the facts underlying the proposal for an inquiry, referring for any further consideration to the detailed report of the bill. The agricultural cooperative The Forteto, community of recovery for disadvantaged minors, located in the Municipality of Barberino di Mugello, in the province of Florence, has been at the center of a long judicial affair for sexual abuse, abuse and pedophilia, begun already at the end of the seventies, culminated in 1985 with a first definitive condemnation of the co-founders and ended in 2016 with a further condemnation (not yet definitive, but confirmed in the appeal) to about sixteen years of imprisonment for the same founders. Despite the very serious charges, in 1997 one of the co-founders was still head of the community and, as stated in the report accompanying the bill, the court of minors would continue to entrust minors to the structure. Precisely for the treatment suffered by two children entrusted by the court to the community, Italy was sentenced in July 2000 by the European Court of Human Rights - called upon by the mothers to whom the minors had been removed - to pay a fine of 200 million lire for compensation for moral damages. It is necessary to point out to the Assembly that the situation of the cooperative has already been the subject of attention by the institutions: on the one hand, by the Region of Tuscany, through the establishment of two committees of inquiry (which deposited their final reports in 2013 and 2016) and, on the other hand, by the Ministry of Economic Development that, called to evaluate the administrative-management profiles of the agricultural cooperative, in August 2013 asked for its commission (request subsequently rejected by the assembly of the cooperative itself). Turning to the substance of the bill, the text consists of nine articles. Article 1 provides that a parliamentary committee of inquiry into the above events in the Il Forteto community is to be set up pursuant to Article 82 of the Constitution. The tasks of the Commission, as set out in the same Article 1, are then indicated in detail in Article 2. The Commission is required to ascertain the facts and reasons why the public administrations and judicial authorities concerned, including those with supervisory powers, have continued to accredit the Il Forteto community as an institutional interlocutor, also following judicial measures concerning sexual abuse and ill-treatment related to conduct carried out within the community; and to verify the conditions for the appointment of a commissioner for the productive part of the Il Forteto structure inherent in the agricultural cooperative, for the purpose of management dissociated from the community for the recovery of children in custody. The draft law also gives the Commission the task of formulating proposals for the adoption of new instruments for the control of housing communities on national territory; for the strengthening of the system of controls on persons responsible for family custody and, where responsibilities and negligence have emerged in relation to them, for the application of appropriate sanctions. The other articles regulate the appointment of the members of the bicameral commission and indicate the duties of the bicameral commission, as provided for by the Rules of the Chamber and Senate and by the same law.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-834.ana.u24	I declare the general discussion open. She's registered to speak Senator Bottici. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-834.ana.u25	Madam President, at last I can express my thanks to this House, because since 2013 I have started to ask the Ministry for information, I have fought and I have really tried to understand and to make others understand that in that cooperative something had not worked and that, despite the fact that the founder and co-founder had been convicted, there was still a piece missing to understand why it had taken so long to reach a conviction. Those who live in that territory, in fact, have always known and said in some way that things did not go. I understand that the agricultural cooperative has a large social fabric: it has a very high turnover, so it must not be wasted on certain facts that have occurred there. It must be preserved and detached from the facts, because it maintains a social fabric. The Commissioner asked for this, some inspections claimed that it should be a police station, others that it should not be done. It is true that it was also a place where different characters went to campaign because it was a pool of votes. The situation is complex and therefore a parliamentary committee of inquiry is precisely the institution that can lead to an understanding of the facts, because it is not always about crimes, but it is necessary to really understand what did not work in the institutions and in the exchange of information. We know very well that legislation on child custody and all control and surveillance of how these cooperatives are managed are fragmented. I therefore hope that from a horrible and horrible fact we will be able to restore that truth which belongs to a State that deals with the weakest, the most disadvantaged and the most needy. We have had children abused for years and who, as soon as they got out, did not stand up to the confrontation with external life because they were pointed out by the social context and took their lives. I would therefore like to thank the House for supporting the request for urgency. It has been a long journey, I have stressed you to the maximum of my ability to bring the measure to the examination of this House. I should like to conclude my speech with the hope that it will be done quickly, so that we can put it to the House for second reading as soon as possible, so that we can at least begin to collect documents and testimonies and then bring them to this House. [[Applause from the M5S Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-834.ana.u26	Senator Mazzoni is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-834.ana.u27	Madam President, I believe that the story of the Il Forteto community, on which there are sincerely no adequate adjectives to describe its enormity, must be told chronologically from its beginning in order to try to fully understand its political complicity and its very important criminal aspects. (Brusio). PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I ask Senators Formigoni and D'Anna to lower the volume of the voice so that I can listen to the speaker. MAZZONI (ALA-SCLP). Thank you, President. As I said, the community of Forteto was founded in 1977. Just a year later, the first abuses that lead to the arrest of its founder Roberto Fiesoli are reported. A precautionary measure by the then magistrate Carlo Casini. In June 1979 Fiesoli returned to freedom. On the same day, the court of minors incredibly assigns the Forteto a child suffering from Down's syndrome: a clear disfession of the precautionary measure arranged by Casini. In 1980 a Regional Councillor for Christian Democracy presented a question asking for information about the Forteto, raising concrete doubts about the practices carried out in the community and assuming some forms of plagiarism. But the trusts of the court of minors in Florence go on and on. In 1985 a sentence was issued for mistreatment and acts of libido against Fiesoli and his deputy Goffredi. Despite the judgment, the relationship of collaboration between the court of minors and the community of Forteto are never interrupted. We're going to 1999. The Mill publishes the first book on the Forteto and will follow many others. In 2000, the European Court of Human Rights issued a judgment condemning the State after the appeal of a mother who had seen entrusting her children to the Forteto. It reads: This situation and the criminal record of Fiesoli and Goffredi should have led the court of minors to exercise greater supervision of the control of children within the Forteto, which does not appear to be subject to effective control by the competent authorities. But the trusts continue and, indeed, in the following years numerous have been the certificates of esteem, the institutional recognitions, the initiatives in support of the Forteto and - above all - rivers of money of public funding: from institutional and political visits of representatives of the center-left to those of pleasure (lunch or spending in the cooperative) of some magistrates, from the presentations of books of Fiesoli, to the public hosts of the same Fiesoli (the most striking in November 2011 at Palazzo Vecchio). And until 2009, the court of minors continued relentlessly to send poor boys to the Forteto. In December 2011, Fiesoli was again arrested on charges of sexual violence, private violence and child abuse. For the gip the testimonies made are credible and consistent: violence, harassment, abuse, obligation to work on the fields before going to school. Then the trial for Fiesoli, Goffredi and 22 other people. In June 2012, the work of the Regional Committee of Inquiry opened, cross-cutting but only because it was baptized with a fairly vague title, otherwise some left-wing advisors would have opposed it. In the light of these facts, one wonders how both and it was possible that a court of minors - through municipal offices - continued for years (and with several presidents) to entrust minors in difficulty to a community led by two persons definitively convicted of sexual offences. How is it possible that a court of minors - an institution of the State - has for years entrusted minors in difficulty to a community whose guru theorizes publicly, in books and conferences, forms of family contra legem (the so-called functional family)? How is it possible that, although the law provides for the maximum duration of the foster care in two years and two, most of the children of the Forteto have remained there well beyond the four years? It is also possible that over the past fifteen years, at least, not a social worker has noticed the anomalies - to use euphemism - such as, for example, children entrusted to real couples but actually assigned to others. How is it possible that the competent authorities did not have accurate controls on a community that received dozens of children in difficulty, when a couple starting the process for adoption or a foster care must follow a long and complex process and, subsequently, periodic checks? How, finally, is it possible that the institutions have continued to sustain economically and symbolically Il Forteto, despite the long shadows that for years burdened that community? How could the institutions have granted funding for a school project, although it is easy to prove that the majority of the children left school after middle school at Forteto? Questions whose answer can only be to say the least disturbing. Of course, at the basis of this scandal there has been a network of friendships and relationships that has often turned into a network of connivances and political complicity, ideological and cultural associations that have allowed the perpetuating of facts such as the one - disconcerting in its uniqueness - of Il Forteto: a president of the court of minors who entrusts poor children and young people to a community that embodies - albeit in a distorted way - his convictions, so much so as to push him to continue the entrusts even after a denunciation and the disposition of a precautionary measure. Here there is no guarantee: there was no question about it and there is no decision to release Fiesoli pending judgment, but to continue sending children in difficulty, without taking any caution against minors. That the facts have shown that the decision was wrong is irrelevant: interrupting the trusts would in any case have been the most fair measure for the protection of minors. Evidently the spirit of belonging and the sharing of the same ideological apparatus prevailed over everything, even the protection of children already forced to live a situation of discomfort. Juvenile judges, municipal offices, social workers, politicians and trade unions: many have had contact with Il Forteto during these decades, many could have raised at least one doubt. It wasn't like that. Many have not seen or not wanted to see, have not understood or have not wanted to understand. In addition to the trusts, the lack of controls, with the municipal social services, which - by the same admission of social workers - during the periodic checks gave delegations so specific that they prevented in-depth inspections: controls that were also announced to the community, as if to give time to put order, to hide the dirty clothes. Finally, politicians who often stopped at the Forteto as a relevant social and economic subject, often coming out - as the children have told - with spending envelopes full of cooperative products. I remember the institutions that continued to finance the community and were in partnership with Il Forteto: the Region and the same university, with amounts of 670,000 euros, or even the mayor to whom the request for a meeting had come from a teacher who had found anomalies in the behavior of a child of the Forteto, who got an appointment but found Fiesoli instead of a representative of the municipality. I therefore believe that it is Parliament's duty to act finally to shed light on this affair, the daughter of a late-six-eighty ideological apparatus, based on Community utopias, on the rejection of bourgeois society and its ties, of the family, seen as an oppressive cage from which to flee, which inspired the birth of the Forteto. What is pressing here is to try to understand the reasons for a silence that lasted almost thirty years and to create conditions and antibodies so that no one in the future can get caught up in the same web. [[Applause from the ALA-SCCLP Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-834.ana.u28	She's enlisted to speak Senator Blondo. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-834.ana.u29	Madam President, in recent months, the second criminal section of the Florence Court of Appeal has confirmed the conviction for ten defendants of the Il Forteto community, where for almost forty years more than eighty children have lived together with sexual violence and ill-treatment. In the reasons for the judgment, which was made public - ladies and gentlemen - in January last year, the judges focused mainly on the figure of Rodolfo Fiesoli, founder of Il Forteto, who was confirmed by the Court to be sentenced to fifteen years and ten months, as well as on the nature of the abuse and violence suffered in the same community. On Fiesoli the judgments use precise and raw words: By rough and dark ways, with men and women, always ready to use hands. But the passage that should make us think more about the abuse and punishments that were imposed on minors. The ill-treatment - we read in the explanatory statement - was not merely a combination of physical or offensive aggressions, but applied more and more under humiliating, slimming, castrating conditions aimed at compressing the victim's psyche. Words, those of the judges, which have a precise meaning and leave no doubt about the aberrant violence perpetrated against helpless children and young people within the community Il Forteto. However, there are many questions as to how this could have happened and how it could continue over time. Has no one in these years ever felt the duty and the need to intervene while mistreatment was forever marking the lives of children and young people? It seems that this is the case, if we refer to the dossier produced by the Commission of Inquiry of the Tuscany Region, in which they denounced complacency and coverage of regional policy on this matter. This is one of the aspects on which the Commission of Inquiry will have to clarify: to ascertain the facts and the reasons why the public administrations and judicial authorities concerned, including those invested with supervisory powers, have continued to accredit the Il Forteto community as an institutional interlocutor, also following judicial measures concerning sexual abuse and ill-treatment related to conduct carried out within the community. Even in this appalling affair, the desire to hide the dust under the carpet has had the upper hand over the desire to make clarity, which Mr Bottici has shown on the contrary. If we do not immediately adopt a strategy capable of ensuring the constant monitoring of reception facilities, it is clear that this terrible story will have taught us nothing. If we do not put in place a series of initiatives to verify the real functioning of all the structures present on the national territory, including those that host immigrants, it means that we do not want to identify and resolve any situations similar to those of the Forteto, that could be present on the national territory. Finally, I should like to say that this draft law gives the Commission of Inquiry the opportunity to make proposals on the adoption of new instruments for monitoring housing communities in the national territory. If we do not do this, if we do not proceed in this direction, it is and will always be the children and families of origin who are increasingly suffering the hasty and inappropriate removal of their children. The lack of respect for the family of origin emerges also in the case of the Forteto and it is the same court of appeal that finds it in the pages of the motivations of the judgment against Fiesoli: "Rigide rules of separation from the family of origin" - read - "denigrated and slandered." Words on which, ladies and gentlemen, we will have to seriously reflect and which once again testify to the need and urgency of a comprehensive and substantial reform of the foster care institution and Article 403 of the Civil Code, aimed at the protection and support of the family of origin, the encouragement of family care and the significant reduction of reception facilities. [[Applause from the M5S Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-834.ana.u30	He's enlisted to speak Senator Malan. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-834.ana.u31	Madam President, the Forteto affair is disturbing and unfortunately it is not an isolated case, or rather, it is the extreme case of a situation that is unfortunately national and reveals enormous deficiencies in the management of children out of the family. It is disturbing and horrible what happened inside the Forteto, with systematic sexual abuse by those who had the children in custody, in order to keep them away from the family of origin, which was believed to have a negative influence - and in many cases it was true - on these young people, boys or children. It was there that these abuses were systematically and ideologically perpetrated, so that these poor people were heavily conditioned, day after day, in a climate of total impunity. That's just part of what's bothering you. The most worrying part is that, despite the numerous complaints, despite the arrests of the protagonist, the guru, the saint who led this community, this person continued to be entrusted with minors out of the family. Just the day this criminal came home - and this should not have happened already - after an arrest following sexual abuse charges, a court entrusted him with an extra minor to rape, ruin and be reduced to a state of slavery. These are incredible things and it is incredible that one should arrive at one of the last acts of the legislature - even if it came to its natural end, the time available would undoubtedly be very little - in order to have clarity on these facts. Clarity should already have been done and this should have been for the media, who, for goodness' sake, have spoken about it. A short service, in order to be able to say that they have talked about it, I do not say all, but several great means of information, but it is the classic fake. There has been a small service or an article in order to be able to say that it has been discussed, while the great media devotes great energies to other stupidities, on which there is a daily hammering, because it is believed that on such stupidities the fate of the morality of the country is played. When the kids are systematically abused, instead, only one article is made and away! This applies, of course, to all the media: it applies to printed paper - to the courageous newspapers of the press - and it applies to programmes broadcast by radio or television, which, except for very rare cases, when it has gone well, have just proposed a taste of the account of this situation: this is really worrying. I add, because it is important, that it is not only worrying what happened inside Il Forteto, but it is even more so what happened outside, in the courts, which have completely indulged this organization. There are courts that have not acted, judges of the highest rank - from the point of view of career in the judiciary - who visited these places, did not notice anything and gave this gentleman an extraordinary space, as a teacher of morality and man of whom everyone should have followed the example. Also prominent politicians, such as the former President of the Council, visited the notorious Forteto, and of course spent many words in compliments. This is particularly worrying, but it needs to be understood that there is a space for these things to happen, because the whole system of child management outside the family has enormous shortcomings. Both in the courts of minors, in social services and in the communities that host children out of the family, alongside people who carry out their work with great commitment, self-denial and conscience, there are many cases of carelessness and sometimes objective synergy with those who go against the interests of the children themselves. There have been cases, which I have denounced with a series of questions (of course unanswered) and with press conferences, which, since they are children abused outside the family, cannot find the interest of the great media, who are dealing with other matters. They are interested in what they consider to be fundamental, that is, to defend, directly or indirectly, the interests of the great financial forces behind these media. But reality remains. The reality, for example, is that since 2011 the government of the time (but the government has its continuity) had undertaken to set up a real registry, a real register of children out of the family. All we have today is not the registry of minors out of the family, which would mean that every minor knows where he is, how many are in every structure and what are the plans put in place by the courts and social services to give a perspective to these young people, that is, their return to their families of origin, when possible, or their adoption by other families. This database and this registry are not there; all there is is a sort of sample survey by the Institute of the Innocent in Florence, whose data are completely unreliable as they contrast with what can be detected in some cases by going to the place. Let me give an example: when they say that in a province there is not even a minor out of the family and then it turns out that there are some, it is clear that these data are unreliable. All there is is this. There is space for a hundred structures like Il Forteto. Of course, everyone's hope is that the people who have kept the criminals and unacceptable behaviors of the Forteto are rare; but there may be, and realities like Il Forteto can persevere and prosper in many places in our country, because there is no such database, in many cases there is an absence of attention on the part of the courts and finally there is a lack of attention on the part of social services or even a collaboration, at least objective, with those who behave badly. I conclude by referring to Article 403 of the Civil Code; that would have been a law to do (but unfortunately there were other things to do). We've solicited her several times. Article 403 of the Civil Code is a provision whereby, by decision of a person of social services (not of a magistrate or a college of persons, but of a single person of social services, perhaps an alternate, maybe a new graduate, maybe a temporary employment), a child can be ripped from his family. And do you know how it works? It is not that you take the matter to court and you can oppose your own reasons. No, the typical way is to go to school when the parents aren't there. The parents brought the children to school, confident that they were safe: they come in uniform, they take these children and they take them away from their home, so that there is no possibility of interaction with their parents, in conditions comparable to the abductions made by the regimes of certain countries of South America (I hope of the past, but I am also afraid of the present). This is Article 403 of the Civil Code. In some cases it is right to apply it, because there are certain families that are small Fortetos. But in many cases it is not. There are cases of children taken from families just because the house was not decent enough or clean enough; they are taken away from their parents and parents cannot know where their children are. There are cases, testified in my questions, where parents, who have never been charged with any wrongdoing, can see their children only half an hour a month, under the supervision of social services, guilty of this kidnapping. Then the Commission of Inquiry should come, even if it will have the opportunity to do only one symbolic act. But this problem must be addressed. Children are often mistreated, unfortunately, by individuals, by individual criminals, but it is a horror that, at times, both the State to be Il Forteto, the prison, the one who deprives these children of rights, takes them away from families, ruins them and then gives them to families maybe when these children are already addicted and with criminal charges. [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-834.ana.u32	The general debate is closed. The rapporteur and the representative of the Government do not intend to intervene in the reply. I would like to say that the Presidency - and it is being distributed - has received the opinion of the 5th standing Commission on the draft law under consideration and on the amendments, which will be published in the annex to today's report. We shall proceed to the vote on Rule 1. CANDIANI (LN-Aut). We call for the vote to be taken by simultaneous ballot by electronic means. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Article 1. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B).
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-834.ana.u33	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-834.ana.u34	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-834.ana.u35	LUMIA (PD). Madam President, I would like to point out a malfunction of the voting mechanism which prevented me from voting in favour.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-834.ana.u36	I take note of that, Senator Lumia. I beg the assistants to check Senator Lumia's station. We shall now proceed to the vote on Rule 2. CANDIANI (LN-Aut). We call for the vote to be taken by simultaneous ballot by electronic means. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Rule 2. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the examination of Article 3, on which an amendment has been tabled, which is intended to be presented, on which I invite the representative of the Government to give its opinion.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-834.ana.u37	Madam President, on Amendment 3,500 (correct text) tabled by the rapporteur, I am in favour of it.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-834.ana.u38	We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 3,500 (correct text). CANDIANI (LN-Aut). We call for simultaneous ballots to be carried out by electronic means. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I would like to refer to the vote by a simultaneous vote on Amendment 3,500 (correct text), tabled by the rapporteur. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by a simultaneous vote on Article 3 in the amended text. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B).
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-834.ana.u39	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-834.ana.u40	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-834.ana.u41	CALIENDO (FI-PdL XVII). Madam President, I would like to point out a malfunction of the voting mechanism which prevented me from voting in favour.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-834.ana.u42	I take note of that, Senator Caliendo. We shall now proceed to the vote on Rule 4. CANDIANI (LN-Aut). We call for the vote to be taken by simultaneous ballot by electronic means. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Rule 4. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the vote on Rule 5. CANDIANI (LN-Aut). We call for the vote to be taken by simultaneous ballot by electronic means. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Rule 5. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the vote on Rule 6. CANDIANI (LN-Aut). We call for the vote to be taken by simultaneous ballot by electronic means. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Rule 6. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the examination of Article 7, on which an amendment has been tabled which complies with a condition laid down by the Budget Committee and which is intended to be presented, on which I invite the representative of the Government to give its opinion.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-834.ana.u43	Madam President, I am in favour.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-834.ana.u44	We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment No 7,500. CANDIANI (LN-Aut). We call for simultaneous ballots to be carried out by electronic means. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I would like to refer to the vote by a simultaneous vote on amendment 7,500 tabled by the rapporteur. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by a simultaneous vote on Article 7 in the amended text. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the vote on Rule 8. CANDIANI (LN-Aut). We call for the vote to be taken by simultaneous ballot by electronic means. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Rule 8. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the vote on Rule 9. CANDIANI (LN-Aut). We call for the vote to be taken by simultaneous ballot by electronic means. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I would like to refer to the vote by a simultaneous vote on Rule 9. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B).
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-834.ana.u45	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-834.ana.u46	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-834.ana.u47	LO MORO (Art. 1-MDP). Madam President, the Group of the Party of European Socialists and European Democrats will vote in favour of this measure. It seems obvious to me; there will certainly be broad convergence on this vote. First of all, I would like to thank Senator Bottici for this proposal. This is not the first time that this House has dealt with it; the problem has already been raised when it has been declared urgent, and I have to say quite frankly that the issue and also the concrete issue put to our attention are unlikely. But this is not enough. We must go beyond the indignation, beyond the judgment, which seems immediate, since there are also criminal convictions, and precisely for this, to go further, we need the Commissions of inquiry. I want to be honest to the end: I believe in the committees of inquiry, I believe in parliamentary investigations, because the individual or more parliamentarians, apart from the acts of inspection union that require the cooperation of the Government, have the power to make investigative acts, especially when the facts have their importance and their political importance, social and also in terms of law, beyond the individual case. This, moreover, seems to me to be an emblematic case. I have heard the speeches of my fellow Members, all of whom are very well informed because many of those who have spoken in general are also from the area. The fact is known, it has lasted too long and it is really disturbing - many have said - that it has been possible to keep alive in the territory the operation of the cooperative Il Forteto as community-housing after all the events that have concerned the founder or however his media representative, their prophet. I looked around the Internet, and I saw him being called in so many ways. What worries the most, however, is precisely the term "prophet." So let the Commission of Inquiry come along, because this is intended to go beyond the individual court cases that have come to an end. However, it is necessary to understand how it was possible, although judicial events have found an outlet, to maintain a strange relationship both with the judicial authority, which has continued to make the trusts, and with the public administrations, which have continued to finance, to forage cooperatives that certainly have at their disposal partners and workers worthy of this name, but that in any case have not reacted, they have not had the strength to be above all suspicions. In fact, it is also true that there are operators worthy of this name, judicial events have been acclaimed precisely in the context of the life and activity of this cooperative. I would therefore like to thank Senator Bottici, who put forward the proposal, because the real objective of setting up the Committee of Inquiry is also far beyond the community and the individual case, which also deserves attention. I'll say it right away and without inflaming. There are too many such cases in our country. Senator Blundo spoke of the custody of immigrants, but it is now another national case, that of the Mercy of Isola Capo Rizzuto. There are too many cases of organizations around which there is a rumor - and there was much more here because there were sentences - but which continue to increase their self-accredited business. Exhibiting, in fact, a curriculum to the managing director in which various experiences appear in that field and a specialization for the many entrusts means having a curriculum apparently also valid, which, therefore, allows to self accredit and to be as suitable subjects to continue the activity and to enlarge it. Then let the tasks entrusted to the cooperative on duty be well done. I would have loved to have worked on that. We are out of time to do anything, but it is a good thing that this House is speaking because it is a fundamental political act, especially if the House will also examine the matter. Let us welcome the approval of this investigation that will not only concern this community because, through the life and analysis of what has been possible in our country in a seemingly quiet region and in which even civilization is a qualifying element, it will be possible to understand what kind of controls are needed. If, in fact, these things happen, there is something that doesn't work in the system. You cannot always rely on the individual administrator who may not be informed or collusion and accomplice. It depends on the cases: there must have been those who were informed and those who were not. We are now unable to make a final assessment of what has happened. Welcome to the controls and an investigation that sheds light on what is not working in our country because it is not enough to entrust. When they rely not only on minors, but on weak subjects - recalling the other case referred to by Mrs Blundo - they rely on people and spend money. This raises another problem concerning controls on the management of cooperatives. I believe that there are positive examples in this world and I believe that the third sector and these cooperatives have made Italy a civil country, but I am absolutely aware that giving this judgment in general on this world does not mean that everything is going well. In fact, for my direct experience as local administrator and observer of the events that happened in Italy, I think that the system of controls serves above all to avoid the abuses that have occurred and to ensure that good administration and good practice are common and widespread throughout the country and not entrusted to the individual prophet on duty. I would therefore like to thank your colleague. We shall vote in favour. Surely we will also be a diligent part of being part of this Commission, if it comes to life, and this will be a signal for the future legislature and for those who will return to these classrooms. In fact, having left this mark of attention will also serve in the future to resume the path from where it will have been interrupted by the end of this legislature. [[Applause from the PD Group and Senators Bottici and Paglini.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-834.ana.u48	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-834.ana.u49	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-834.ana.u50	MAZZONI (ALA-SCLP). Madam President, as I pointed out in my general speech, there is an absolute need for the establishment of a parliamentary committee of inquiry into the Il Forteto community. The now unfortunately known community of Mugello over the years has developed on three directions - it is useful to know - the community proper, which is recognized in the association of the Forteto and where it is always practiced the reception of minors in trust with the so-called functional families, a completely autochthonous concept of the Forteto, which indicates individuals often among themselves in barely superficial relationships, but identified as a nucleus for the sole function of the foster. Then the agricultural cooperative, a substantial flywheel with a turnover that is around 16 million euros, whose members are members of the community. Finally, the foundation, which should be concerned with spreading the philosophy of the Forteto with particular reference to the educational activity - I say it obviously in quotes - of minors in schools and within the community itself. In 2002, I think it would be useful to remind this House. The case of the Forteto and the judgments that had not had any effect on the chain of custody of minors to the community Bruno Vespa took care of an episode of the transmission "Porta a Porta". During the transmission Vespa made a very explicit complaint, which I quote: In six years of "Porta a Porta" (Porta a Porta a Porta a Porta a Porta a Porta a Porta a Porta a Porta a Porta a Porta a Porta a Porta a Porta a Porta a Porta a Porta a Porta a Porta a Porta a Porta a Porta a Porta a Porta a Porta a Porta a Porta a Porta a Porta a Porta a Porta a Porta a Porta a Porta a Porta a Porta a Porta a Porta a Porta a Porta a Porta a Porta a Porta a Porta a Porta a Porta a Porta a Porta a Porta a Porta a Porta a Porta a Porta a Porta a Porta a Porta a Porta a Porta a Porta a Porta a Porta a Porta a Porta a Porta a Porta a Porta a Porta a Porta a Porta of Porta a Porta a Porta a Porta a Porta a Porta a Porta a Porta a Porta a Porta a Porta a Porta a Porta a Porta a Porta a Porta a Porta a Porta a Porta a Porta a Porta a Porta a Porta a Porta a Porta a Porta a Porta a Porta a Porta a Porta Porta Porta a Porta Porta Porta Porta Porta Porta Porta Porta Porta a Porta We have always taken great care of the children, no one has ever had anything to object to and now we would like to argue that the mere fact of saying this forbidden name, Il Forteto, can harm these children and, therefore, we would like to argue that a transmission of information cannot account for an affair for which the Italian State has been condemned by the European Court of Human Rights. This, frankly, seems excessive to us. It seems to me instead emblematic of the climate that we breathed in those years and that we have unfortunately continued to breathe until recently. I am referring to the climate of complicity that surrounded the whole story of the Forteto. But let's move on. In June 2012, the Regional Council of Tuscany set up the first Committee of Inquiry to shed light on the story of the Forteto. The Commission concluded its work in January 2013 with a report, unanimously approved, which, through numerous evidences of dramaticly unique and concordant content, reconstructed, like what the magistrates found in their investigative activity, a gruesome picture. The report states that abuse was practice: abusive practices detected by commissioners range from physical to sexual abuse, from the use of child labour to various practices of physical and mental coercion, to psychoemotional and emotional abuse, in particular through the total termination of ties with the family of origin. Following the Commission's work, the need for the competent Ministry to send labour inspectors to the Forteto was raised. In April 2013, the inspectors were actually sent and in August, they concluded their work with a very detailed report in which they asked for the cooperative's commissionership, unfortunately never happened. I put a question to the Minister for Economic Development for information on the request by the ministerial inspectors for the commissioning of the Forteto. On 8 October 2013, the Ministry of Economic Development informed, through an official letter, that it had concluded that the conditions existed to accept the proposed commissioning by the inspectors and to have sent the file to the management responsible for the possible adoption of the measure. The measure was still possible. A second Commission of Regional Inquiry set up in September 2015 again requested the Commissariat of the Forteto, the dissolution of the association and the foundation and the establishment of a Parliamentary Committee of Inquiry. Let me quote a few passages. The enormous responsibility of the court of Florence has become clear. There had already been judgments against the leaders of the Forteto, but the court continued to entrust children first to the association, then to so-called families within that community. There were very serious individual responsibilities, with names and surnames of magistrates who made assignments or who did not check how they should, and also ideological responsibilities, especially in the early years. Very heavy responsibilities, therefore, which also involve the social and health services that were obliged to carry out the checks and report to the court, but which have often done it very badly. The Regional Commission has also explicitly accused local policy, in particular the centre of the left, which - I quote again - would have acted "superficially, with many passages to the Forteto also of important characters who have helped to accredit an idyllic image of that experience." There are, in short, every reason to approve and immediately put this Parliamentary Committee of Inquiry to work, even if the legislature is nearing its end. Every day will be useful to finally shed light on what is, in my opinion, a national scandal. We owe it above all to the children who are victims of the Forteto, but we also owe it to our conscience as parliamentarians. It is clear that there have been immense political complicity in this obscure affair; complicity of an old ideological left, blinded by the communitarianism of the 1970s, which saw in the rejection of the family institution and in the collectivization of goods and labour the affirmation of a new model of sociality. On the basis of this totem the ideological left supported, magnified, justified, credited and also financed with public funds the private delirium for which the charismatic leader of the Forteto and his accomplices welcomed in minor custody in difficulty to subject them to all kinds of harassment and physical, emotional, sexual, affective and psychological abuse. So we, like Senator Bottici - whom I thank for this initiative and for the tenacity with which she has taken it forward - want to see full light in Parliament and a Commission of Inquiry into the Forteto affair and the role that politics has played in this dramatic affair which has been going on for thirty years. The justice of the magistrates will take its course; for that policy we will fight to the full, so that each one will assume his own responsibilities. [[Applause from the ALA-SCCLP Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-834.ana.u51	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-834.ana.u52	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-834.ana.u53	DE PETRIS (Misto-SI-SEL). Madam President, the measure on the setting up of a Commission of Inquiry into the events of the Il Forteto community, which we have always considered urgent, has finally come into effect. It has, however, been too long-winded, especially in the light of the seriousness of the events. The greatest exponents and founders of the community, who welcomed minors, have on several occasions been condemned - condemned! - abuse, abuse, plagiarism, violence against minors entrusted to them by the court. The first arrests were dated the late 1970s and continued until today, with the two founding fathers, Fiesoli and Goffredi, sentenced on several occasions to serve sentences up to seventeen years. Despite complaints, arrests, convictions and even a judgment of the Court of Strasbourg, which sentenced Italy to compensation, at the time, of 200 million lire, the court of minors in Florence continued for decades to entrust children and adolescents to the community, removing them from families in an irrecoverable way and contributing to subjecting them to serious physical and psychological violence. It remains to be understood why none of the actors involved and responsible (social services, Region, health service) has been able to protect children from a context that should at least have raised serious doubts, given the continuing condemnations of Fiesoli; public authorities, therefore, that have failed to their institutional tasks, helping to entrust children and adolescents to this place of horrors. The reconstructions tell us of a crime perpetuated under the aegis of the institutions, with a diluted guilt in the generality of the system, so that it was almost impossible to identify. I would like to remind you that even during the investigations of the Commission of inquiry of the Tuscany Region there has been a continuous discharge of the responsibilities and barricade behind the affirmations: it was not my responsibility, it was the competence of others. It is clear, therefore, that one of the main aims of the committee of parliamentary inquiry will have to be to lead these processes, how all this could happen, contributing to the definitive emergence of the truth about what happened to the Forteto, beyond the individual responsibilities, which have been and will still have to be further established by the judiciary. I remember in fact how the custody of minors to the Forteto turned out to have stopped only in 2012 because of a new, further, arrest of Fiesoli. In the process followed by the public prosecutor Ornella Galeotti said that for some decades in Tuscany there has been a phenomenon against which the laws of the State have been suspended. They even encamped judgements and assessments, almost ideological, to endorse the interpretation of a sentence of condemnation as clear as a political pronunciation. There have been barricaded in many cases behind this just to continue to perpetuate the trusts. In this halo of consensus has taken over a routine that has determined the omissivity in the monitoring and the controls, in the institutional duties, as well as the absence of any form of deepening and the abandonment of even a serious and scientific rigor that should not have credited forms of trust practically out of all logic. It is therefore necessary for the Commission to ascertain the truth and for every measure to be taken so that this does not happen again, without of course falling into the temptation to generally accuse services, or social services in general, but identifying the wrong mechanisms and responsibilities, the inability to understand and discern all control systems. The Commission will certainly have these very precise tasks. Of course, we are very concerned that its institution is almost at the end of the parliamentary term, so we are asking everyone to make an effort so that the few weeks or months that remain at the end of the parliamentary term can be made productive in order to ensure that the Commission is immediately operational and can carry out its work. For all these reasons I announce the vote in favour of the Senators of the Italian Left to the institution of the Commission of Inquiry. We owe it to all the victims of the Il Forteto community, hoping that this Commission will finally ascertain the truth and the responsibilities to prevent other cases of this kind from occurring in our country. [[Applause from the Misso-SI-SEL Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-834.ana.u54	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-834.ana.u55	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-834.ana.u56	ALBERTINI (AP-CpE-NCD). Madam President, on the last occasion when I spoke here, that is to say last week, in the case of explanations of vote in favour of the measure that tightens the penalties and further argued cases of unlawful acts carried out by the guardians of justice (both magistrates, chancellors, lawyers), corruption in judicial acts and similar acts, I concluded the intervention of then with a famous quotation taken from the VI Satira di Giovenale that today comes back extremely topical and departed from that: "Quis custodiet ipsos custodias? "Cauta est et ab illis incipit uxor" Who will watch over the overseers? The cunning wife will begin with those very ones. The satire concerned a ferocious attack on the misconception of the Roman women of that time, whether rich or poor, noble or plebee, and has in this context a reference to the tragic topicality of this affair. That is, the same surveillance bodies, even those of the jurisdiction, in an almost forty-year journey, have allowed, out of complacency, ignorance, indigency, perhaps connivances of various kinds that happened this ruin of the law and that this protection of the weak, this noble mission to protect the children threatened by angeries, sexual abuse and anything else, instead of being cause of salvation, were circumstances in which these serious facts were repeated and repeated. The first episode of arrest of the responsible of this community dates back to 1978, when Judge Carlo Casini (who I had the opportunity to know as a Member of the European Parliament many years later) charged him with sexual crimes. He is incarcerated but, after a short time from the first incarceration, he leaves the prison to return to the community Il Forteto; on the same day he is entrusted, by the court for minors, the first Down child. And the President of the court then, a great friend of Don Milani, states (and I quote from the report the sentences of the provision) that he does not believe in the investigation of Judge Casini and that he considers Il Forteto a welcoming and suitable community. In 1982 this community widens the boundaries, even patrimonial ones, of its own reality. Buy a property of 500 hectares around Florence, move to this pleasant place, develop, in more recent times, a turnover from 18 to 20 million euros per year and employ 130 employees. In 1985 the head of the community was sentenced for the first time, with a sentence then passed to trial, for serious crimes. In 1997, however, Fiesoli was still head of the community despite this unfortunate precedent. In 1998 we have a case that draws the attention of the European Court of Justice, which in 2000 condemned the Italian State to pay EUR 200 million for moral damage. But the activity continues and we arrive quickly to our day, because this state of affairs does not stop. In the meantime, it has been found that public money of EUR 1.2 million has been paid, from 1997 to 2010, to carry out these illegal activities. (17.54) (Following ALBERTINI). In short, it is a truly tragic, dramatic and in some ways grotesque case, in which the supervisory institutions, those of the jurisdiction, those of the territories, those of the State (both the Tuscany Region and the Ministry of Economic Development) have opened inspection actions with clearly unsatisfactory results. Well, in these nearly forty years, it has been allowed to happen. Finally, therefore, the Italian Parliament should at last come from the legislative body, a bicameral committee of inquiry which can, not only shed light on what has happened with regard to the crimes committed and on the circumstances which are almost inexplicable, for which there has been this connivance and this inability to recognize the offences and to interrupt this disaster, but which, above all, can derive from these experiences and from the knowledge of these facts useful arguments, traces, aspects of the functional application of conduct that may in the future prevent the repetition of such events. We really hope that the Commission will be able to do its job and leave the institutions of the Republic with signals and guidelines that will enable us not to retrace this unfortunate road. [[Applause from the AP-CpE-NCD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-834.ana.u57	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-834.ana.u58	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-834.ana.u59	BOTTICS (M5S). Mr President, it was 11 July 2013 when we presented the first question in which we asked whether the Ministers of Justice, Health, Labour and Social and Internal Policy did not intend to work with the competent administrations to justify the reasons why the community, indeed the cooperative Il Forteto, also following Fiesoli's condemnation of sexual abuse and abuse, continues to receive in custody of children, also because what was happening at the Forteto could happen elsewhere. Well, the bill is of 9 October 2015 and today we are at the end of May 2017: finally, this Parliament has also awakened. Then we are surprised that the local institutions did not wake up in time, when Parliament also slept, because we could intervene earlier. I do not want to argue, because I want to go straight to the end and I want this measure which sets up the Commission to be subject to a double parliamentary examination. I therefore invite you, as Group Leaders, to agree with the other Group Leaders in the House to ensure that the proceedings in the Chamber of Deputies are quick, and then immediately to convene the members to establish the order and timetable of the proceedings. I also hope, given that today it seems to me that the whole of Parliament has awakened, that it will recognize who has been dealing with this issue since 2013 and constantly reports to this House what was happening and the danger that it could happen in other situations too - so to me, to Senator Bottici, who has stressed you every day - the role of President of the Commission of Inquiry. In fact, some people only understand today, because we are in this House (as I asked you to stress and the Conference of Leaders), that there is an urgent need. Our vote will be in favour. As a member of the Commission, which I hope will be set up soon, I will bring this dossier which I have studied over the years, because when we speak we must read, we must understand what is happening. I remind you that in 2005-2006 Fiesoli made an educational journey with elementary, middle and high schools in agreement with the University of Florence and some stakeholders still work in schools and universities. I therefore believe that, following the immediate start of the Commission of Inquiry, these people should leave these institutions and leave these people free. I would also like to thank you on behalf of the victims and I hope that this Commission will be launched immediately. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-834.ana.u60	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-834.ana.u61	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-834.ana.u62	Mr Rizzotti (FI-PdL XVII). Mr President, the Forza Italia Group will vote in favour of the establishment of the parliamentary committee of inquiry into the events that have taken place in the Il Forteto community. I thank Senator Bottici for having insisted and continuously put into the spotlight the unacceptable scandal that took place within the cooperative. What has happened is a story from lager, from horror movies, which is why it is absolutely necessary to shed light on the wall of omerta that for years and years has been around this abomination of violence on children and children with disabilities, which has ruined the lives of many children and brought some of them to suicide. That community received funding, from 1996 to 2010, of more than €1.2 million from the Tuscany Region, as well as funds from the European Community. Thirty years earlier, homosexuality, pedophilia and zoophilia were experienced: all that was the denial of nature, as if a moral anarchy reigned. This could have been stopped a year after the opening, when a magistrate arrested the founder Roberto Fiesoli for sexual violence. But he didn't serve. He was released and there was a political and strongly ideological stance of the community that supported him, with the affirmation that the denunciations of violence were only the result of malign language. Fiesoli called himself the prophet. He was able - not well known how, given the lack of credibility he should have had - to organize conferences. Antonio Di Pietro even held a conference against pedophilia at the Forteto; there passed Livia Turco, Rosy Bindi and Fassino, but no one noticed what was happening and the complaints put forward. Even in February 2010, the Democratic Party Group presented to the Senate a book written by Fiesoli. I would like to mention a part of the reasoning behind the judgment of the second criminal section of the Florence Court of Appeal, when he sentenced this monster to fifteen years and ten months: By sudden and dark ways, with men and women, always ready to use their hands and lower their pants showing their member, it is not well known for which purpose preparatory or educational. And again, on ill-treatment: They did not merely include physical or offensive aggressions, but applied themselves more in humiliating, slimming, castrating conditions aimed at compressing the victim's psyche. I therefore wonder why - and this is the question that many of us are asking ourselves in this House and outside - juvenile judges, social workers and social services continued to entrust minors to the Il Forteto community, even after the conviction of Fiesoli, who was arrested for the first time - as has rightly been mentioned - in 1978. I hope that this Commission will break the veil of shame that has been covering the Il Forteto community for forty years. It is not clear why the Region of Tuscany wanted to exclude from the Salone del libro di Torino, concluded a few days ago, the book investigating the events of the Forteto, entitled "Setta di Stato" (Seventh of State), as can be seen from the acts of the Regional Council of Tuscany, when the motion for a resolution, signed by various Groups, was rejected, which supported the presentation of this book to this Salone. Fiesoli was condemned in the first instance for these very serious events in 1981 (but already in 1980 a regional councillor had denounced the situation of violence), but a very famous judge later made the verdict forget and everything remained the same. Since 1985 there has been an undisputed dominion of Fiesoli at the Forteto. Fiesoli was arrested again for pedophilia in 2011, just a month after he was invited by Renzi to Palazzo Vecchio, at TEDxFirenze, as an expert in child education. But the court for minors continued to entrust these poor children to the community Il Forteto. Already the second commission of inquiry of the Tuscany Region has formulated sentences and began to recognize a minimum of justice to the victims of violence, admitting what had happened in all these years. I hope that all the responsibilities will arise, including some of the cooperative's leaders, who must continue their business. I therefore hope that the Government will issue an ad hoc decree. I am very sorry for the delay in giving the Commission of Inquiry the green light, despite repeated requests in the Presidency Council. I really hope that there will be a rapid examination of the text by the House of Deputies, so that we can start working as soon as possible, otherwise these further delays would make us think maliciously, as our Andreotti said. Instead, I want to think that we intend to deny these doubts, starting to work as soon as possible. [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-834.ana.u63	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-834.ana.u64	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-834.ana.u65	LUMIA (PD). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the Democratic Party had no doubt about supporting and allowing today the establishment, in accordance with Article 82 of the Constitution, of a parliamentary committee of inquiry into the events in the Il Forteto community. We have examined the text carefully in the Justice Commission and have enriched it in some parts of it. The recalled ones, already exposed by the rapporteur and gradually supported by various interventions are very serious, in some ways terrible: children removed from their families of origin, children subjected to physical, sexual and psychological abuse. Why? Why did this happen? What responsibilities have there been? What controls have gone unchecked? Why didn't the dramatic situation immediately take place, after the first condemnation of the founders? These are different and repeated responsibilities, but they can no longer go empty. The criminal justice has acted, there have been two committees of inquiry at the level of the Tuscany Region. Let us investigate with the typical powers of a Commission of Inquiry, do not look at anyone's face and act with rigour and seriousness, without any instrumental references to political cultures or to our respective belongings. The Parliamentary Committee of Inquiry also has another important task, which concerns the general situation of communities in our country. The draft law in question states that the Commission also has the task of formulating proposals for the adoption of new instruments for the control of housing communities on national territory and the strengthening of the system of controls on persons responsible for family custody and, where responsibilities and negligence have emerged in relation to them, how to apply appropriate sanctioning measures. Children deserve the best in the country, especially when they are in difficulties, both social and family. Let us examine the various responsibilities and lay the foundations for supporting the honest communities, who in the territories work in silence, with professionalism and love, between a thousand difficulties and obstacles. At the same time we are called to remove all the collusions and protections and complicity, which protect the various Forteto still present in Italy. Colleagues, we will make our contribution with commitment and passion, together with all Members ready to do an investigative work, as our conscience dictates and the Constitution commands. The Democratic Party will vote in favour of the constitution of the Parliamentary Committee of Inquiry into the facts of the Il Forteto community.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-834.ana.u66	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-834.ana.u67	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-834.ana.u68	MARTELLI (M5S). We call for the vote to be taken by simultaneous ballot by electronic means.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-834.ana.u69	I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of the bill as a whole, in the amended text. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). [[Applause from the M5S and FI-PdL XVII groups and Senators De Poli, Fucksia and Sangalli.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-834.ana.u70	Ladies and gentlemen, the Presidency has received a request, pursuant to Rule 56 (4) of the Rules of Procedure, from the prescribed number of senators to include on the agenda of the sitting the debate on the report by the Parliamentary Committee on Regional Affairs on the forms of liaison between the State and territorial self-governments and on the implementation of the Special Statutes (Doc. XVI-a, n. The President One speaker per group may speak on this proposal for no more than ten minutes. The resolution shall be adopted by a two-thirds majority of those present and shall take place by electronic means. Since no one is asking to speak, I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of the proposal to include the debate on document XVI- bis, No 11. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). The votes in favour are well over two thirds.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-834.ana.u71	The next item is the debate on document XVI- bis, No 11. The report has already been printed and distributed. She asked to speak in order to supplement the written report by the rapporteur, Senator Orrù. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-834.ana.u72	Mr President, the report by the Parliamentary Committee on Regional Affairs, adopted on 10 May, comes to the end of an in-depth reflection on the state of regionalism and, more generally, on the structure of the territorial authorities of our country. It is a reflection that takes into account the main criticalities in the system of connection between the State and territorial authorities, in the implementation of the Statutes of the Regions with special autonomy and in the process of reorganization of the local authorities, according to the indications emerged during the cognitive investigations concluded by the Commission, in particular that on the forms of connection between the State and the territorial autonomy, with particular regard to the system of the Conferences; and that on the problems concerning the implementation of the Statutes of the Regions with special autonomy. Before going into the substance of the report, allow me to thank the President, Mr D'Alia, for the way in which he has conducted the Commission's work, and to all my colleagues, who have contributed to the drafting of a widely shared document, according to a bipartisan logic aimed at highlighting critical issues and proposing concrete solutions in the exclusive interest of the country. I would like to mention just two issues, which make clear the Commission's commitment: considering jointly the two surveys and the further brief information procedure carried out during the examination of the report, the Commission has held 49 sessions and audits of more than one hundred personalities, including representatives of the central government, the territorial autonomy, the administrative and accounting judiciary, the academic world and the leaders of the public administration. Thanks also to all those who have contributed to the work, starting precisely from the many representatives of the institutions and experts in the field, who have undoubtedly enriched the work of the Commission with their contributions and reflections. The Commission also availed itself of the fruitful cooperation of consultants, which was carried out free of charge. Finally, an appreciation and a heartfelt thanks go to the two Chamber and Senate administrations, which have strongly supported the Commission's work, providing quality staff with a view to putting their resources into system. In particular, along with the Commission's offices, I would like to thank the officials, Dr. Martuscelli and Dr. Fucito. Turning to the substance, the report sets out a number of concrete indications for the redefinition of the institutional framework outlined in the 2001 Constitutional Reform. The first issue addressed is the need to integrate the Parliamentary Committee on Regional Affairs with representatives of the local and regional authorities. The audit bodies agreed on the need to recognise a parliamentary forum for debate and discussion on issues relating to territorial authorities, identified in the Parliamentary Commission in accordance with Article 11 of Constitutional Law No 3 of 2001. In this regard, I would remind you that Article 11 requires Parliamentary Regulations to integrate the Commission with representatives of the Regions, the Autonomous Provinces and the local authorities and sets out a particular procedural value to the opinion given by the Commission, if it relates to provisions of law that affect matters assigned to shared legislative competence (Article 117, third paragraph, of the Constitution) or to the financial autonomy of the self-governments (Article 119 of the Constitution). In the event that the substantive Commission fails to comply with the opinion, the Assembly shall act by an absolute majority of its members on the corresponding parts of the draft law. The integration of the Commission was outlined as a bridge solution pending a broader constitutional reform that would transform the Senate into a Chamber of Self-Government. With the lack of entry into force of both the constitutional reform of 2006 and that of 2016, this solution cannot be considered even more transitional; rather, it is the only form of link between the State and the territorial autonomy envisaged at the constitutional level, in a structure that can now be considered consolidated. The delay in the implementation of Article 11 of Constitutional Law No 3 of 2001 constituted for Parliament a substantial renunciation of an essential function in the current system of multi-level governance: the function of coordination between the different levels of government. Parliamentary assemblies are in fact the natural forum for the realization of the principle of loyal collaboration (especially, but not only, in the context of the legislative procedure); a venue that allows to bring back in the circuit of representative democracy the adoption of choices of fundamental importance for the lives of citizens. It is also Article 5 of the Constitution that requires the Republic to adapt the principles and methods of its legislation to the needs of autonomy and decentralisation. The implementation of Article 11, far from being an anachronistic solution, is therefore very urgent at the present stage, in order to overcome the impasse due to the absence of a parliamentary space for the composition of the interests of the constituent institutions of the Republic. It is necessary to remedy the absence of an institutional and transparent forum where requests from the territories can be confronted with the central state in order to develop common and shared solutions. The participation of the territorial autonomy in the legislative procedure would allow, so to speak, to anticipate the confrontation between the State and territorial authorities on the legislation; a confrontation that today is relegated largely downstream, that is, in the implementation of the laws to the system of the Conferences or within the framework of the Constitutional Court, called all too often to resolve the continuous conflicts between the State and the Regions, ending in fact with the playing of a role that goes beyond that proper of a judge of the laws. The high constitutional dispute over Title V is the most evident sign of the crisis of the current system of connection between the State and the autonomous, guarded only by the system of the Conferences. More generally, the system of conferences has been called upon to play, in addition to its own role (in the context of a comparison between executives on the implementation of laws and administrative cooperation), also a role of substantial supplement to Parliament. It is precisely the Constitutional Court that has repeatedly referred, in the judgments in which it recalled the respect of the loyal collaboration in order to settle the conflicts between the State and the Regions, to the ongoing absence of a transformation of the parliamentary institutions and, more generally, of the legislative procedures - even within the limits of Article 11 of the Constitutional Law of 18 October 2001, n. 3 The urgency of the Commission's integration is also linked to the recent Constitutional Court ruling No 251 of 2016. By changing its previous orientation, the Court has extended the applicability of the principle of loyal cooperation to the legislative procedure: in cases where the delegated legislator is preparing to reform institutions that affect state and regional competences, inextricably linked, there is a need for recourse to the agreement. In other words, in the process of approving legislative decrees it is necessary to acquire the understanding by the system of conferences, and no longer the only opinion, ending, moreover, to make the parliamentary examination of legislative decrees marginal. The report proposes, in particular, to highlight the results of the extensive work of inquiry carried out during the 14th Parliamentary term by the Parliamentary Committees for the Rules of Procedure of the two branches of Parliament for the integration of the Commission. A work of inquiry later interrupted also in view of the start of the legislative process of constitutional reform, then rejected following the referendum of June 2006. A work that the Commission has further enriched, taking into account the approximately sixteen years since the reform of Title V of the Constitution and the considerable jurisprudence of the Constitutional Court, which has concretely redesigned the framework of the division of competences between the State and the Regions. The details contained in the report (which must be referred back) concern in particular: the identification of the source to be used for the implementation of Article 11; the composition and integration of the Commission; the powers of the Commission in integrated composition; the way in which decisions are taken and functioning; the effects of opinions in the legislative process. Taking into account the timing necessary for the full implementation of Article 11, including in relation to the duration of the current legislature, the report suggests a rapid activation of synergies between the Parliamentary Commission and representatives of regions and local authorities, both because of the urgency with which issues relating to the legal and financial structure of territorial authorities are required, and because of the opportunity to lay the foundations, including methodological ones, of the work of the future Commission in integrated composition. Another important issue in the report, which is also related to the previous report, is the need to rationalise the system of conferences. Among the main problems of the Intergovernmental Conferences, the hearings revealed the heterogeneity of the subjects on the agenda and the consequent need to focus the activity on the specific areas of the confrontation between the national and executive government of the territorial authorities. It should also be noted that the three Conferences should be replaced by a single conference, consisting of a plenary meeting and two separate sections (regional and local). In the context of the Conferences, greater bilaterality should be fostered, attenuating the government's position of supremacy with the anticipation of forms of rotation in the Presidency or of a co-Presidency and ensuring greater participation of local authorities in the formation of the agenda. The need for greater transparency and publicity of the proceedings and sessions of the Conferences has also emerged in order to make the position of the various parties more easily known for the proper assumption of responsibility. From a different point of view, we note the absence of a real political seat in which the national government and the territorial executives confront themselves on the great strategic choices for the country. It is therefore suggested that a Conference of Executives be set up, composed of the President of the Council of Ministers and the Presidents of the Regions and Autonomous Provinces, with the task of outlining a shared political agenda between central government and territories. The third issue addressed in the report concerns regions with special status. The Commission's work has been divided into two parts: the revision of the Special Statutes and the implementation of the statutory rules. These are two connected aspects: on one hand, in fact, the non-confirmative outcome of the constitutional referendum of December 2016 did not undermine the need for an organic revision of the Special Statutes; on the other hand, it seems inevitable to regulate the implementation procedure in order to eliminate the obvious distonies that have so far characterized the procedures in the different Regions with Special Statute. In this context, special attention has been paid to the question of the financial system of the regions with special autonomy. The last issue addressed in the report is the reorganisation of large-area entities: Provinces and metropolitan cities. In the aftermath of the constitutional referendum, a debate began on the possible consequences of the failure to implement the reform of the Constitution on Law No 56 of 2014, with which the reorder was carried out. In this regard, the place of the Provinces remains unchanged, which continue to be constituent bodies of the Republic together with the State, the Regions, the Metropolitan Cities and the Municipalities and to boast its own autonomy also in financial terms. And it is precisely in the light of the position of equalization with the other territorial authorities of the Provinces that any further hypothesis of intervention that affects the agencies of wide area must be reported. The report considers it desirable that any reflection on this subject should take into account the changes at territorial level which have taken place in the meantime, and in particular the important legislative activity carried out by the Regions in implementation of Law No 56 (for example, examined in detail by an analysis of the Senate Studies Service). The regions have, in fact, carried out a comprehensive and highly articulated redefinition of the functions and structures of local authorities, which has been accompanied by a reorganization of regional administrative structures and large-area bodies (which also covered procedures for the mobility of staff, now defined). This is a process, at a very advanced stage, which it would seem advisable not to call into question completely, in order not to introduce elements of uncertainty regarding the exercise of the functions that have just been reordered and the provision of services to citizens. More than a revision of Law No 56, attention should be paid in particular to certain measures which, as also supported by the Court of Auditors at the hearing, have significantly affected the organisational and financial autonomy of large-area entities and which founded their legitimacy precisely in the perspective of constitutional reform. It was the narrowness of resources, resulting from the contextuality of the cutting of state transfers and the delay in the implementation of fiscal federalism, which meant that the correspondence between entrusted functions and assigned resources was not always fully ensured, a principle recognised by the Constitutional Court. Only if the conditions of financial difficulties are overcome in a structural way will effective broad-area governance be achieved. In this respect, I consider the efforts that the Government and Parliament are making in this direction to be appreciated, last but not least in the context of the examination of Decree-Law No 50 of 2017, which the Senate is preparing to discuss next week. [[Applause from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-834.ana.u73	The motions for resolutions to this document will have to be tabled before the end of the debate. He's enlisted to speak Senator Candiani. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-834.ana.u74	Mr President, I will speak only in the explanation of vote, and I will not speak in general debate.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-834.ana.u75	Senator Cotti is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-834.ana.u76	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, as a member of the Parliamentary Committee on Regional Affairs, I have followed closely the process of hearings and discussions on this subject. The document certainly contains the findings of needs shared by all political forces in the Commission. In particular, I would like to refer, for example, to the need to overcome the still widespread and present disputes concerning the relationship between the State and the Regions. The Committee on Regional Affairs has acknowledged that the State-Regions Conferences are still valid in some areas, although it must be stressed that they are involved in reconciling the needs of governmental entities - regional and state governments are involved - while unfortunately this is a limit of our order - a place to intervene in the legislative phase already in order to reconcile different needs between state and local authorities. From here comes the need to put hand to the norms in order to seek an ever greater harmony between the State and the Regions. However, the document is still too general for us to be able to take a clear and shared position on the part of our political strength and, I assume, of the others. Although it contains some positive elements, it also contains aspects that cause doubts about the future assent that can or may not be given to a reform that provides for a different function and composition of the Commission in the first place for regional issues. We are talking about extending this Commission to representatives of the regions and local authorities. It is an indication that comes from Constitutional Law No 3 of 18 October 2001, which, in its Article 11, provides that participation in the Parliamentary Committee on Regional Affairs may be extended to representatives of the Regions, the Autonomous Provinces and the local authorities. I would like to make a few examples of concern and caution in agreeing to this report. For example, the possibility of enlargement to representatives of the Commission's local authorities would obviously involve the presence of representatives of the regions. And so far, no objection. However, the presence of representatives of the other local authorities would also be so; there is an explicit mention of Provinces, Metropolitan Cities and Municipalities. Since the members of the metropolitan cities and provinces are not directly elected by the citizen, there would be the paradoxical situation whereby people appointed not by citizens, but by their colleagues, i.e. municipal councillors, would even, in an indirect election at second instance, have to appoint members of a parliamentary committee. Therefore, we would have members of a parliamentary committee elected by people who are not elected by the people. This, especially for those who are part of the 5 Star Movement, is quite questionable and bizarre. For this reason, it will be necessary to assess the texts proposed in order to make any changes to the functioning of the Parliamentary Commission in regional matters, which will then affect Parliament's work. In fact, it is expected that this Commission will also have an interdictional power over legislative measures which should no longer be adopted by a majority of the Houses present, but by an absolute majority if the majority of the Commission on regional matters so requests. The hypothesis is that a Commission consists of 60 members. There are also others that would do something about elephantiac, almost a third chamber. I believe that such a hypothesis should be avoided by trying to limit the number of components. It must also be said that the constitutional law of 2001 gives the regulations of the Chamber of Deputies and the Senate of the Republic the possibility of an enlarged participation. Therefore, we should proceed with a change to the parliamentary regulations and this would therefore appear to be fairly simple and quick. In fact, to have mechanisms for election by the regions and other local authorities it is obvious that it will also take a legislative and not only regulatory transition. For this reason, I believe that we should take a position on such a project when there are much more precise proposals. This report poses problems and suggests solutions, but in fact it does not give any precise solution to the problem of the involvement of the regions in state legislative activity. The position of the 5 Star Movement is therefore awaiting, given the indeterminate nature of many issues. We will have to wait until we have precise and concrete rules before our eyes so that we can speak in a positive or negative way. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-834.ana.u77	The debate is closed. I inform the Assembly that motion for a resolution No 1 has been tabled by Senator Orrù and other senators. The text is in distribution. As the rapporteur does not wish to speak in her reply, I call the representative of the Government, to whom I would also ask her to give her opinion on the motion for a resolution tabled.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-834.ana.u78	Mr President, the Commission's work has certainly been intense and important. As an Executive, we have supported the hearings attended by several representatives of the Government during the investigation and drafting phase. From this text there are useful and - I add - reasonable indications, so much so that we can consider them even late; this is an element of criticism of our work over the years. The rules, in fact, have been awaited for a long time, but they have remained firm for a long time, starting with those on the full composition of the same bicameral Commission, which is also unique in having constitutional protection. This very element, which has been suggested and highlighted in the reform of Title V of 2001, is there to demonstrate how much time has passed from that act to the present day. The lack of constitutional reform further highlights the obligation to fully implement the resulting constitutional arrangements and forecasts. In particular, in the various interventions of the senators, but also by the rapporteur, the provisions of Article 11 of Constitutional Reform Act No 3 of 2001 have been cited. Among other things, this passage provides for a simple act in itself, namely the activation of parliamentary regulations, and not major reforms. I think that, all the more so after 4 December last, it is useful for the House and the Senate to put their hands on the issue of parliamentary regulations and, in this case, to fully implement the composition of the Commission. This passage is not the responsibility of the Government, because the topic is typically parliamentary, and it is therefore a form of parliamentary self- solicitation, on which, moreover, the Government agrees. The relationship that is identified in the resolution between the State, the Regions and the local authorities is a central theme: that relationship is the nerve fulcrum of the Republic. It is clear that, if that element jams, everything risks being much more difficult, both on the side of disorganization and in the ability to give answers to the questions that arise as they arise. The work carried out by the Commission and the resulting demands are also important with regard to the system of conferences to be reformed; in this respect, the Government can do more as a competition and as a contribution. Similarly, the issue of the revision and implementation of specialities was discussed in this very House at the time of the reform and undoubtedly requires an update in relation to the changes that have taken place. I also welcome the attention that has been paid to the issue of large-area entities, not in terms of cancellation, but implementation. This is an issue of great importance in the physiognomy of the Republic and I believe that, from this point of view, implementing the Delrio law is also the responsibility of the Government in the field of budgetary laws. In fact, the difficulties they are complaining about are not due to structural reform, but to the conditions under which the budgets of local authorities, due to the crisis and the high debt, are found. In the same way, I think it is important to call for the further implementation of the draft on the subject of fiscal federalism, on which, moreover, a special parliamentary Commission is working. In conclusion - I say this on the sidelines, if only for my own experience - I believe that an important part of all this work should be devoted, in this case in the relations between the State, the Regions and Parliament, to the full implementation of Article 116 of the Constitution in relation to the whole game of differentiated federalism, which was introduced in 2001 but very little pursued; in fact, it is often the object of political initiative, but with difficulty it translates into an initiative from the legislative point of view or at least relational between the Regions and the State. I think that this is absolutely useful and to be encouraged. Therefore, the motion for a resolution No 1 is undoubtedly self-applying to a party on which, while declaring our favourable opinion, we turn back to the will of Parliament; for the other part of the request to the Government, for our part, about the calls it makes to the full implementation of the Republic's installation, I insist that the Republic is not the State, but the State together with the Regions and local authorities. In fact, the Republic is often confused with the State and it is a very serious mistake from the point of view of political and institutional cultures. Having said that, I declare the Government's favourable opinion on motion for a resolution No 1. [[Applause from Senator Russo.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-834.ana.u79	We shall now proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-834.ana.u80	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-834.ana.u81	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-834.ana.u82	[[Senator Candiani's comments.]] Senator, please. Mr Quagliarello (FL-Id-PL, PLI)). Mr. President, I'm here. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I was inviting Senator Candiani not to make vocal comments. Mr Quagliarello (FL-Id-PL, PLI)). Senator Candiani's comments are always welcome. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. However, they must comply with the Rules of Procedure. Mr Quagliarello (FL-Id-PL, PLI)). This, Mr President, is your job and not mine. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. That's right. Mr Quagliarello (FL-Id-PL, PLI)). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the report before us can be seen as a transitional text, as Senator Cotti has already pointed out, and that is why it has some vagueness and indeterminateness, which is also the result of the fact that this is the first report that comes after the failure of constitutional reform and therefore directs the debate on a crucial issue, namely the relationship between the State, the autonomy and the system of conferences. More than indicating solutions, the report stresses the need not to lose sight of this issue which remains central, perhaps the most important of those concerning the reform of our institutions. There is no doubt that the reform of the institutions requires an organic vision and I believe that the absence of this vision was one of the limits of the reform that we have faced; however, if you imagine segmenting the different chapters - certainly wrong exercise - perhaps the most important is the revision of the relationship between autonomy and the state. Mr President, leaving aside the problems of the municipalities, which are very often becoming the state's accounting offices, and limiting ourselves to the aspects that have been taken into account in the report, we are in a situation in which - in order to proceed with the acceptance and certainly to stigmatize certain positions - we have Provinces that had to be overcome and which, as the report rightly pointed out, remain in the Constitution among the fundamental bodies of the State. These provinces have become second-degree organs, they have been expelled from most of their resources but not from their functions, with the result that those who were primary tasks, such as the maintenance of roads and schools, are increasingly forgotten tasks. Today they live together with entities of a wide area that have not been well defined and, above all, well distinct from those that were precisely the Provinces, in a situation in which the metropolitan cities, also mentioned in the Constitution, remain - if we observe the operation - a sort of glorious mystery. The metropolitan cities should have represented the union between the great centers and the belt of the other municipalities that somehow surrounded them. This is with a view to creating synergies that should have led to savings on the one hand and improved services on the other. In their implementation, the metropolitan cities have turned out to be none of this! They are, at best, super Provinces that are entrusted to the mayor of the capital, who, among other things, is the only figure that in case of distrust sees go home those who have distrusted him while he remains in office, because in almost all metropolitan cities the function of the President is a stable function. Obviously, with these assumptions it is difficult to think of an organism that can somehow have a reason and an efficiency. The situation is also very indefinite with regard to the regional entity, which is no longer the irresponsible entity designed by the reform of the seventies, irresponsible also from the economic-financial aspect. This irresponsibility was one of the reasons for the crisis in the budget of our State: the Region was not able to be that body with legislative and financial responsibility that would respond to the citizens to some extent. The center-right tried in the last legislature. Fiscal federalism was an attempt to embody this ideal. We are halfway there, so that today we find ourselves with a fundamental entity located in a sort of limbo, suspended between a past that is good to forget and a future that has not yet succeeded in realizing. Mr President, this is a great opportunity for us in the coming months, including politically. We know that in the autumn there will be a referendum on autonomy in Lombardy and Veneto. This occasion, which then matured and also from the constitutional point of view has determined an important chapter in the development of the material life of our institutions, can be interpreted in two different ways: or almost as a corporate request of two Regions, that is, as the great opportunity to rethink the relationship between State and Regions, making it become a great national occasion. Mr President, if we correctly interpret the concept of autonomy, we should come to the conclusion that this is the meter that could guide the relationship between the State and the Region not only for Veneto and Lombardy, but for all the Italian regions. And in the light of this approach we could reopen the debate on the specialty, which has also been mentioned in the report, highlighting how overcoming this speciality - on the other hand some elements have been provided to us by Senator Orrù in this sense - can take place not through repeal, but through recognition of the fact that the relationship between each individual Region and the State should be special, if in some way governed by a correct conception of autonomy. Each Region, in fact, has its own needs different from those of the other Regions, and therefore autonomy should be a concept with variable geometry, because what Lombardy needs is different from what Sicily needs and what the North needs is different from what the Mezzogiorno needs. Let us take for a moment the issue of health for example: it makes us very clear how the concept of variable geometry in the relationship between the State and the Regions could be the basis of a profound reform. On the other hand, these are not original ideas: these are considerations that have already emerged in the constituent debate. Just think of the reflection of those years of a politician like Don Sturzo to understand how, going back to that root, we could take a step forward. In conclusion, Mr President, our vote will be in favour and it is a vote of encouragement; it is the vote of those who believe that the effort has been made to fear the transition but that it is now necessary to move forward and not to put under the carpet an issue that is absolutely fundamental for the life of our country and our State for the next decades. [[Applause from Senator Berger.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-834.ana.u83	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-834.ana.u84	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-834.ana.u85	CANDIANI (LN-Aut). Mr President, I cannot agree with what Senator Quagliariello has just said, to which I am bound by a report of esteem, because I honestly remember it when he was sitting on the benches of the Government as Minister for Reform and today we find him making an explanation of vote in favour of a measure that is very thick, as he himself will admit. [[Applause from Senator Carraro.]] The measure is of very little importance to the importance and weight of the issues that should be addressed: the relationship between the autonomy and the central state. Mr President, we would have expected a more conscientious and stronger act, obviously from the politics that supports the majority, of the failures caused by the Renzi Government's choices, which went in the sense of not missing the desire for freedom and autonomy that has long shaken our country without finding a real point of arrival. Instead, we were faced with the Delrio law first, with all the failures that result, and then with the constitutional reform, of which we know the devastating results. In the report we find statements against which we can only be opposed, starting from the considerations made in the report regarding the reorganization of large-area entities, because we cannot fail to note that the failures caused by the Delrio law must be overcome by momentum, simply by removing the modification of a structure that, before being constitutional, has been ordered. They began to disassemble the house from the foundations, not paying attention to the fact that the roof then remained dangerous, at the time when the same house was dangerously in the balance. Today we find ourselves with the Provinces that continue to exist and with the overlap of the agencies of wide area, with the definition of the metropolitan cities that will never find their complete implementation, in a system that is instead deprecating the local authorities, in the specific case the Provinces, of the resources that should be the basis of any administrative policy. This is to say that the report on our examination - as is said in my country - taja and medega: on the one hand it cuts and on the other it stitches. In fact, the report says that there are some problems, but it is considered that they can be solved by means that do not need constitutional reform. It talks about unified conferences and about integrating the relations that already exist today with the State-Regions Conference: all insufficient measures. Mr President, in just a few minutes this morning we passed a law allowing the Municipality of Torre de' Busi to move from the Province of Lecco to that of Bergamo, absent to the favor that those citizens, on several occasions and with the strongest expression of democracy, that of the referendum, had expressed. At the same time today the Senate has again postponed the approval of the passage of the Municipality of Sappada from one Region to the other, and happens from a Region with ordinary Statute to one with special Statute. This report devotes very little space to the relationship between regions with ordinary statutes and those with special statutes, when inequalities are now evident, in a country that has not found, through differentiated regionalism, the opportunity for greater unity. This is a country in which politics has used differentiated regionalism to create further regional disparities, with regions struggling to square their budgets and others that have no problem, because, in any case, the autonomy guaranteed to them allows them to always repay the debts contracted. We would have expected here important indications that all the regions must have the margin for manoeuvre and autonomy that guarantee their citizens to be able to recognize in the elected directors of the responsible directors, or guilty defrauders of the public budget to be able to cast out. There's nothing in here about this. In the same motion for a resolution, Mr President, which I invite you to read (there are four small lines), the majority are content to tell the Government to do its own thing, taking into account the indications contained in it. We would have liked the report to have talked extensively about the desire for freedom and autonomy that distinguishes the Lombard and Venetian citizens, who on October 22 will be called to express their right to ask the regional government to bring their region to have more autonomy. It is a demand of principle that, when it is implemented in Lombardy and Veneto, it can be followed in other Italian regions, because this is the difference between us and you: calling the people to express themselves for us is an added value, while for you it is a problem to come out of. Faced with this, Mr President, it happens that the request of the Municipality of Sappada cannot yet find an answer, because the majority policy that supports the Government does not want to allow a municipality to move from a region with an ordinary statute to a special statute. Otherwise - what is not said, but written between the lines - how many other municipalities would follow his example? You are simply preventing democracy and respect for the democratic expression of a people, a municipality, a reality and a community. We shall vote against this report, because it is hypocritical in its content and empty in its prospects. The only serious perspectives that can be given to the country to emerge from the crisis, which even before economic is political, are those to recognize the levels of autonomy to which the citizens of all the Regions, besides those of Lombardy and Veneto, have the right to aspire and aspire. We shall therefore vote against the report and call on the Government to give serious thought. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-834.ana.u86	I would like to ask those Members who wish to speak in an explanation of vote to take account of the fact that we have to finish our work by 8 p.m. and that we have been asked to bring this item on the agenda forward to today's sitting.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-834.ana.u87	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-834.ana.u88	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-834.ana.u89	PEGORER (Art. 1-MDP). Mr President, first of all I would like to highlight the significant work done by the Parliamentary Committee on Regional Affairs on relations between the State and regional authorities. This is a complex, complex work, which included the hearing of stakeholders, which I believe is synonymous with the vitality of our representative democracy. The Commission's report, approved on 10 May 2017, aims to complete the path undertaken in the last two years with the carrying out of two cognitive surveys on the forms of linkage between the State and the territorial autonomy, with particular regard to the system of conferences, and on the problems concerning the implementation of the Statutes of the Regions with special autonomy. In our Group's view, it is appropriate to highlight a number of particularly important issues here. First of all, the failure to implement Article 11 of Constitutional Law No 3 of 2001. From this point of view, the implementation of this article is therefore very urgent, in order to overcome the complex situation caused by the absence of a parliamentary space for the composition of the interests of the constituent institutions of the Republic. From this point of view, it emerges from the report that the Parliamentary Committee on Regional Issues in Integrated Composition could play a key role in preventing the constitutional conflict between the State and the Regions. In this regard, it is recalled that the only body currently able to ensure coordination between the different levels of government is represented by the system of Conferences (State-Regions Conference, State-City Conference and Local Self-Residency and Unified Conference), which are certainly a place of consultation of the executives of the various territorial authorities, but certainly not the most suitable venue if it is intended to intervene in terms of legislative function. The report then reveals a possible solution to this problem, giving the Commission, in an integrated composition, the power to consult on all draft laws of interest to territorial authorities, thus maintaining a competence unchanged from that of the current Parliamentary Committee on Regional Affairs. In this way, the Commission in an integrated composition could decide on matters of fundamental importance to territorial government, such as the local authorities' order, which is attributed to the exclusive competence of the State by Article 117, second paragraph, point (p) of our Constitution. On the subject of the revision and implementation of the Statutes with special autonomy, the report undoubtedly gives us a field of future activities, which essentially aim at establishing a framework between the State and the special self-governments based on greater coordination on the decisions to be taken and the prerogatives to be respected. In particular, in the specific cognitive survey, deliberated on 25 February 2015 and concluded precisely with the approval of the final document in the session of 4 November 2015, critical issues have been highlighted in the functioning of the Joint Committees, called to elaborate the draft legislative decrees implementing the statutory rules. As mentioned above, this represents a ground on which to promote an initiative in order to achieve a new season in the relations between the State and the individual special self-governments. Finally, Mr President, on the sensitive issue of financial relations, with reference to the financial autonomy of the special regions, the Commission highlights the opportunity to enhance the experience of intra-regional coordination of the Autonomous Region of Friuli-Venezia Giulia. The regional integrated system of public finance outlined in that Region can be understood for the differentiated autonomous ones as an instrument of recomposition of the relations between the institutions, in the face of the substantial failure to implement the plan of fiscal federalism previewed from the constitutional reform of 2001 and sanctioned by the autonomy pluralism and the equiordination of the entities that constitute the Republic pursuant to articles 114 and 119 of the Constitution. For the above, the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats will vote in favour of the resolution proposed by the rapporteur. [[Applause from the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and ……]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-834.ana.u90	I thank Senator Pegorer for halving the maximum time of surgery.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-834.ana.u91	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-834.ana.u92	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-834.ana.u93	LANIECE (Aut (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT)-PSI-MAIE). Mr President, by taking the pressure to be tightened from many quarters, I will try to sum up our thoughts as self-employed on this cognitive survey, in which we have participated actively in all the sessions. I thank Senator Orrù, who has already extensively outlined and explained the content of this cognitive investigation. I like to start by emphasizing the last part of the intervention of the Undersecretary Pizzetti, especially because he represents the Government; two days before the Feast of the Republic, to hear a representative of the Government who says that the Republic is not only the State, the Regions and the local authorities (metropolitan cities and municipalities) is pleased, because this is a bit the heart of this cognitive investigation, that is to re-establish and try to better harmonize the relations between the members of the Republic. And each component (state, regions and local authorities) must have the same dignity. Taking a suggestion from Senator Quagliariello, when he spoke of a fiscal federalism that was implemented in half, I would point out that we are halfway there not only in this case, but also in the case of the reform of local authorities and provinces and the 2001 reform. We are in a historic moment when the planning of the territory and the state is in difficulty, because a whole series of legitimate reforms have not been completed. We are in times of difficulty, such as that already mentioned by Senator Orrù and other colleagues with regard to the situation of the Provinces. This investigation, which the Parliamentary Commission wanted to carry out precisely following the non-confirmative outcome of the 2016 Constitutional referendum, intended to examine carefully the aspects of the relationship between the State and the Republic's bodies, trying to suggest also some practical solutions. Many emphasised the non-implementation of Article 11 of the 2001 reform. I think it is right to stress the fact that this article has not yet been activated; it is an article which provides - as has already been said several times - for the harmonization of parliamentary representatives in the Regional Affairs Committee with representatives of the regions, local authorities and municipalities. I would not like to emphasize this, because this was an article that provided for the possibility of involving local authorities in the legislative phase together with the Government in view of constitutional reform and therefore a change of the Senate in a more territorial sense, where local authorities and regions could also be represented. If this Article 11 is applied, this can certainly be good, but in future projection, so this document can and should be used to prepare the debate on the forthcoming reform of the Constitution, which I believe should be on the government's agenda in the next legislature. It is clear that, as a representative of a Special Statute Region, I am particularly interested in the points concerning the revision and implementation of the Special Statutes. With regard to the revision, the need to revise many rules that are no longer feasible has already been raised. There is therefore a need to review the Special Statutes. Let me give an example: the Aosta Valley Statute provides for a free zone, but this rule, as it is written, is no longer applicable, given the new rules of the European Union. With regard to the implementation of the Special Statutes, as Senator Pegorer has well recalled, the Joint Committees, which must provide for the preparation of legislative decrees that must be approved by the Government on matters that will then be the responsibility of the Regions under Special Statute, do not actually work so well. There is a whole series of problems to which this report seeks to provide solutions. In conclusion, I believe, unlike someone else, that this report and this investigation will serve as the basis for the debate that, in any case, in a few months (anticipated or not) the new legislature will have to address, namely the issue of constitutional reform, which is still there, and the modernization of our Constitution and the Statutes to seek, as a federalist convinced, to bring the Republic closer and closer to the local authorities and the regions, in order to give more possibilities to the territories. [[Applause from Senator Berger.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-834.ana.u94	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-834.ana.u95	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-834.ana.u96	MANCUSO (AP-CpE-NCD). Mr President, certainly the negative vote of the Italian people on 4 December 2016 once again put to the attention of constitutionalists the now ten-year problem of the forms of connection between State and territorial authorities. The overcoming of the perfect bicameralism and the configuration of the Senate as the Chamber of Autonomies would have allowed a faster and more effective achievement of positions shared between the different territorial levels, a simplification of the picture of the relative relationships and the overcoming of the institutional litigation that has undergone a remarkable implementation in the post-reform period of 2001. I believe that we cannot fail to agree with the results of the bicameral Commission on regional issues, which has done an excellent job: the only possible solution to ensure greater participation of local authorities in the legislative process and, consequently, to have considerable benefits in the area of deflation of constitutional litigation, is to implement the bridge solution that was identified in Article 11 of Constitutional Law No 3 of 2001, namely the implementation of a bicameral Commission on regional issues in an integrated form, which would have allowed it to be a sort of laboratory for institutional comparison between the State and territorial authorities. This solution is necessary, because the principle of loyal cooperation must not only be the cornerstone of the activities of the executives, but also the constant reference of the legislator. Parliamentary assemblies are, on the other hand, the natural forum for the realization of the principle of loyal cooperation, as they enable the adoption of choices of fundamental importance for the lives of citizens to be brought back to the circle of representative democracy. The impasse due to the absence of a parliamentary space for the composition of the interests of the constituent bodies of the Republic must be overcome. The institutional confrontation of the plurality of interests in the field would also allow to avoid uneven and uneven interventions that have often been adopted without the inclusion in the discussion of the recipients of the rules. Another indirect benefit would be the prevention of the constitutional conflict between the State and the Regions. The division of legislative powers outlined in Article 117 of the Constitution has very soon demonstrated its inadequacy in the composition of national, regional and local interests. With the integration of the bicameral Commission, it would be possible to ensure, as part of the legislative process, that the framework of competences outlined in Title V of the Constitution was respected. The integration of the bicameral Commission, in any case, is not enough. It is also necessary to define with surgical precision the respective competences and powers, especially in order to avoid harmful overlaps with the system of Conferences, which, moreover, constitute a place of conciliation of the executives and are not the most appropriate place where it is to affect the legislative function. We hope as a group that all the groups will have a quick and fruitful debate on this matter. We will therefore vote in favour of the report proposed by the bicameral Commission.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-834.ana.u97	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-834.ana.u98	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-834.ana.u99	CERVELLINI (Misto-SI-SEL). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, for the sake of brevity you will allow me to address just a few points, particularly highlighted by Senator Cotti, with whom I have shared many of the points made in the debate. I will exalt them by sharing them, except for a few, one in particular. I am referring to the strong criticality, which was remembered by Senator Cotti, about the Provinces and the metropolitan cities: a criticality first of all of a proper democratic nature, having with the law Delrio determined a second level agency. We opposed that measure when it was discussed and approved, but it could have a ratio and a hold within the counter-reform that the government was going to discuss, approve and then submit to the referendum. However, as has been said, the referendum has punctually denied that draft, which does not allow us to "shuffle" in the face of an idea of reordering the whole matter, not only in terms of democratic order, but in terms of the balance with local authorities. It is quite clear, in fact, that the non-presence of executive vote and therefore of elected by universal suffrage and the concomitant composition of the council (from the council members, elected by the council members themselves, to the President, who is the mayor of the capital) has determined - I say this on the basis of a brief verification made in recent years - regardless of the political color, that the hinterland of a large city or even of a metropolis has become the carpet under which to put all the garbage. And when I talk about garbage, very often I am referring precisely to garbage, because it is quite clear that in the absence of a democratic confrontation every problem of an average city, much more than a metropolis, will find in the Province, in the territory of the other municipalities the place of resolution, not paying electoral prices only in the specific municipality. Then a stronger signal had to be given here. Obviously there are positive aspects that do not escape us, as the Italian Left, but it had to be given a stronger signal and, that is, the mess of the Delrio law had to be the first aspect to be faced in terms of profound changes and of deep legislative counter-tendance, because otherwise the risk will be that in the next openings of the school year rather than on the road and the defense of the territory, that were the historical competences of the Provinces ante law n. 56 of 2014, we will have serious problems of short circuit. The need to put a hand at the legislative level, even in the short time remaining for this parliamentary term, was a strong signal which was to be contained in the resolution. That is why we declare the abstention vote. [[Applause from the Mixed Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-834.ana.u100	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-834.ana.u101	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-834.ana.u102	Cotti (M5S). Mr President, as has already been widely expressed in the debate, our doubts about the vagueness of this document will cause us to vote for an abstention. I just want to add two reasons to this abstention vote, which wants to be an encouragement to find solutions for a better relationship between the state and the regions, but also a criticism. We shall vote on a document which commits the Government, as far as it is within its competence, to give rise to the indications contained in the report. The indications are vague, so practically the government is being given the power to choose between the written indications, some even in contrast, which it believes should be taken into consideration. Then I see the resolution, which bears the first signature of Senator Orrù, Sicilian with partly Sardinian origins, and is signed by Senator Laniece of the Valle d'Aosta and I read in the report a very ambiguous phrase that, with regard to the regional speciality, says that "paradoxically," in some realities seems to be exceeded. In all the work of the Commission on regional issues I have not noted this consideration. I close by wishing - and sending a message to the representative of the Government - that the outdated regional specialty will mean that we have not been able to fully implement the forms of regional specialty, so much so that, as the report says, there are even Regions like Veneto and Lombardy that press to move towards greater autonomy. I hope that on this point there is no turning back to the demands of a rejected constitutional referendum, which cut out a lot of competences from the Regions, because for the pulse I have in the Regions under special statute, if the regional specialty is exceeded, behind this comes the need for independence. I don't see any other solution. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-834.ana.u103	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-834.ana.u104	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-834.ana.u105	PELINO (FI-PdL XVII). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the report before us is the result of the work of one of the four cognitive surveys carried out within the Parliamentary Committee on Regional Affairs. The Commission's work has begun and fortunately ended with the Constitutional Charter itself, because the constitutional referendum of 4 December was rejected and today it cannot be pretended that the rules that provided for a huge step backwards on the provisions concerning the competences of the Regions have not been rejected by the Italians. So, fortunately, we find ourselves with the current Constitution as it was amended in 2001, at least in the part that concerns regional self-government. From this point of view, the report starts from our examination, with initial considerations that we believe to be completely wrong, first of all because the proposed constitutional reform did not contain the solutions to the problems that led to the constitutional dispute between the State and the regions of recent years. Therefore, the resolution of the problems also comes from the Commission which has drawn up this report. However, in order to continue to be authoritative, given the high task assigned to it, this Commission cannot take positions that are too politically unbalanced, but it must be a body that works in the interest of the title that is its own for the resolution of regional issues. If anything, if we really have to blame ourselves as Members of Parliament, we must do so regretting that we have not incorporated the bicameral Commission with the representatives of the autonomous bodies before, in accordance with the provisions of Article 11 of Constitutional Law No. 3 of 18 October 2001. It is precisely that possible dispute between the State and the Regions that could be resolved by prior examination of the reasons for conflict, in the name of that loyal collaboration that must exist between the different levels of government. Until now, a place of dispute settlement has certainly been the complex system of conferences, providing an additional role in relation to the failure to implement the provisions referred to in Article 11. It is therefore an important power which the Commission has not been able to avail itself of in regional matters, which would have affected the process of many legislative measures, probably avoiding the dispute that then took place. We have pointed out that we do not agree with the premises, while we can do so on how to identify the most appropriate forms of integrating the Commission in regional matters with representatives of the self-government. As well as you can find a shared path to the reorganization of the system of Conferences. With regard to the revision of the Special Statutes, many of the Commission's conclusions are acceptable, as they represent a common sense path, which obviously needs to be shared with the same special self-governments. In the next parliamentary term, anyone who wins the elections will also have to take advantage of some of the indications that emerge in this report on how to integrate the Commission in regional matters. Just as it will be necessary to study ways to give the local authorities the autonomy of resources that is the basis for framing them in the most effective way within an efficient regionalism that everyone wants. Mr President, I shall conclude. In view of the fact that we do not share much of the political assumptions of the report, but we appreciate much of the work done in an authoritative and highly respected assembly such as the Committee on Regional Affairs, the vote by Forza Italia on the motion for a majority resolution tabled by Senator Orrù will be abstaining. [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-834.ana.u106	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-834.ana.u107	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-834.ana.u108	Borioli (PD). Mr President, in declaring the Democratic Group's vote in favour of the motion for a resolution which incorporates the report by Senator Orrù, whom I thank for the work we have done together and which you have done in particular by presenting to the House, I shall confine myself to two considerations. As for the first, it is clear that the report under consideration, as well as the cognitive investigation underlying it, had the task of providing the legislator (therefore, in some ways, to ourselves) with some indications of a regulatory nature and, in some respects, of a legislative nature, in order to intervene downstream of the failure to confirm the constitutional reform in order to give rise to what is contained in the forecasts referred to in Article 11 of the Constitutional Law 18 October 2001, n. 3, which remained long suspended, even in the last legislative acts, pending the reform, which moreover the same constitutional law n. 3 indicated as the final port of the reformatory process of relations and relations between the State and the system of the Regions and local self-governments. From this point of view, I believe that both the survey and the report give us a good summary and provide us with useful and very important material in order to carry out our work. I believe, Mr President, that there is no need to point out to colleagues that even the incompleteness and perhaps the lack of precision in pointing out certain points should be attributed to the fact that this was not a report accompanying a draft law - which is not the responsibility of the bicameral committee for regional matters to dismiss, but, as far as we are concerned, to those who deal with regulations and the first Commission - but it simply had the function of indicating some hypotheses for the solution of an issue which the failure to reform has left open and I believe that this has done so in a very satisfactory way. I agree very much, moreover, with the solicitation that came from the intervention of the undersecretary Pizzetti, regarding the fact that, in the range of the resolving hypotheses that the report proposes, has a particular importance the theme of how to reconstruct a link, which is then very important also for the proper functioning of the institutions of democracy, between the functions and competences of the State and the functions and competences of the regions and local authorities. From this point of view, I highlight the request addressed to the Government - but which I believe we must also address to ourselves in order to usefully commit what remains of the legislature - to begin, especially in the integration of the composition of the bicameral commission, with the assumption, perhaps in a first phase of experimental character, of that representation of the regions and local self-governments that was provided for in Article 11 of Law No. 3 of 2001. I believe that this is the task to which, beyond the different points of view that today have also been at stake in our debate, we should hopefully try to work for a sense of responsibility towards the country and the functioning of democratic institutions, including those territorial ones, which were the ratio underlying the attempt to constitutional reform. I would like to stress with conviction that a good job has been done, which makes available to all of us instruments on which to debate (and I hope that the final part of the legislature can also be used to start this type of work), and I would like to highlight one aspect, with the utmost respect for the opinions of everyone. We know clearly that, at this moment, we must try to compose, through the Commission for regional issues, a reduction in the damage; it is clear that the full fulfilment of what the Undersecretary Pizzetti evoked as the Republic made up of constitutional parts, represented not only by the State, but also by the local autonomous bodies (Comuni, Province, Metropolitan Cities and Regions), had entrusted itself to a generous attempt to resolve the issue by transforming this Parliamentary Assembly into an assembly that had the task of assuming at the highest constitutional level the functions of the local self-governments and the Regions in a parliamentary forum. Since there has been talk of mortification of the autonomous and regionalist drives, perhaps we should make a joint reflection on this aspect. In fact, having thrown into the nettles - certainly with the unappellable response of the majority of Italian citizens - an opportunity that could have given regionalism an institutional seat in which to express itself is a missed opportunity, on which we should all reflect in order to try to overcome positively, with the instruments that we have available, this gap. [[Applause from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-834.ana.u109	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-834.ana.u110	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-834.ana.u111	FALANGA (ALA-SCLP). We call for the vote to be taken by simultaneous ballot by electronic means.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-834.ana.u112	I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I call on Senator Orrù and other senators to vote on the motion for a resolution No 1 at the same time. (The vote was followed). The Senate is not a quorum. I therefore suspend the sitting until 7.55 p.m. (The sitting was suspended at 7.35 p.m. and resumed at 7.55 p.m.) I put to the vote motion for a resolution No 1, tabled by Senator Orrù and other senators. It's approved.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-834.ana.u113	The motions, questions and questions received by the Presidency will be published in Annex B to today's report.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-834.ana.u114	The Senate will meet again in public tomorrow, Thursday 1 June, at 4 p.m., with the following agenda: (See agenda) The sitting was closed at 7.55 p.m.
