ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-922.ana.u1	The sitting is open (9.05 a.m.). The Minutes shall be read. Mr Mauro Giovanni, secretary, read the Minutes of the sitting of the previous day. PRESIDENT. - The debate is Since there were no comments, the Minutes were approved.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-922.ana.u2	The list of senators on leave and absent on assignment received from the Senate, as well as further communications to the Assembly, will be published in Annex B to today's Minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-922.ana.u3	I would warn you that qualified votes can be taken in the course of today's sitting by electronic means. Therefore, from this moment the period of 20 minutes from the notice provided for in Article 119, paragraph 1, of the Regulation (9:12 a.m.).
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-922.ana.u4	The next item is the debate on draft law No 2960-B, already approved by the Senate and amended by the House of Deputies. I would remind you that, under Rule 104 of the Rules of Procedure, only the amendments made by the House of Deputies will be the subject of discussion and deliberations, except for the final vote. I call the President of the 5th Permanent Commission, Senator Tonini, to report on the Commission's work.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-922.ana.u5	Mr President, representatives of the Government, my fellow senators, the 5th Commission ended its work this night without voting on the term of office of the rapporteurs. That is why you must be content with me rather than with the rapporteur, Mrs Zanoni. On the basis of a gentlemen agreement (proposed, to be honest, by a lady, that is, Senator Comaroli, and accepted by all the Groups), the oppositions thus renounced the illustration, discussion and vote of the amendments tabled; more than 200. Given that it was clear that the majority and the government, being the measure at third reading, would have been the orientation to ask the Commission to reject all the amendments, the Commission therefore considered it more useful to focus on the comparison of a package, however fed, of agendas, on which it was discussed with the Government. Except for a few agendas that were not accepted, the Government has accepted all the agendas that committed it to act administratively in implementation of regulations already in force, of existing legislation. However, the agendas which involved a commitment to promote legislative innovations were accepted as a recommendation, with some exceptions. It is clear that they were commitments that the Government could not take on, given the economic situation we are in, that is, at the end of the legislature. To sum up to my colleagues the outline of the text we have before us, which has been greatly modified by the House of Deputies, we could say with a joke, if I may - my size makes me think of these things - that the draft budget law has entered the Council of Ministers slim - as the President of the Council said - has come out overweight from Palazzo Chigi (because already during the debate in the government has grown), has come out moderately obese from the Senate and, instead, seriously obese from Montecitorio. This is a first consideration of superficial aesthetic character. If we go a little more to the substance, things are partly different. The skeleton of the maneuver remained unchanged, as well as, of course, the balances. The reading of the Chamber of Deputies has brought in additional resources in a significant way, both because it was able to use resources put in place by the tax decree - which was not yet in force during the examination in the Senate - and because measures have been introduced to strengthen the fight against tax evasion, in particular in the oil sector. There has been the important measure of reordering and strengthening of tax agencies that goes in this direction, among other things in support of one of the most important innovations of this draft budget law: e-invoicing. The so-called web tax, which also provides significant revenue, has been reworded and strengthened, part of which has been earmarked for reducing the tax burden, in particular on two aspects of deduction. The first and, in my opinion, most important innovation in this field, produced by the House's reading, but that - I must say to the honour of my colleagues - had already been developed, or rather conceived, since we are talking about children or, in any case, children, in the Senate (even if it has seen the light in the House of Deputies) was the reordering of the package of measures in favour of the family. There has been a remodulation of the baby bonus that has opened an important financial space since 2019 to significantly raise the income ceiling of young people, of the children themselves for the deduction of dependent children: from the current little more than 2,800 euros to 4,000 euros per year. This is an important measure because it is not only a concrete support for families but is also part of the process of bringing young people closer to work. The other element of strengthening tax deductions concerns the ecobonus and sysmabonus package which has been significantly enhanced. Let's go to the grocery store. There is a significant part of spending rules that also present some critical issues, on which I believe it is appropriate that the Senate reasons. There is an accommodation from spending Regions, Provinces, Municipalities and special autonomouss, for about 500 million; there is a strengthening of the Social Bee and then - this also presents critical elements... [[Senator Calderoli's comments.]] I'm quickly summing up the contours. Mr Calderoli (Misto-LpSP). There is no rapporteur and there is nothing to sum up. TONINI (PD). There are many measures to stabilise public staff, particularly in the education, university and research sectors. With this I concluded the illustration of the essential contents. I would like to make two points, as President of the Commission, not as rapporteur: I say this to my esteemed colleague Mr Calderoli. The first one. It is quite clear that the reform of the budget law that we passed two years ago is difficult to come into force. We have introduced significant innovations that should also aim at certain objectives; the result of this work gives us a problematic situation, on which I believe that the next Parliament will have to reflect and reason. In particular, the parliamentary scrutiny essentially still ignores the overall structure of expenditure, takes it for granted, gives it for purchase, the government takes care of it. The parliamentary scrutiny manages to agree with the Government some significant interventions - on which then the political judgment may be different but which are still significant, like those I mentioned earlier - but the parliamentary debate and the pressure that takes place around the two Senate and Chamber Budget Commissions, naturally with the different dynamics that traditionally exist in these two branches of Parliament, concentrate on a mass of interventions on the margin, all of which increase in current expenditure or at least mainly of increase in current expenditure, often permanent and structural. I believe that this gives us a problem for the country and for Parliament, that is, how to recover - let me tell you this - that einaudian spirit of the debate within the Constitution in which this great Father of our Constitution - yesterday was rightly reminded of the anniversary of the approval of the Charter - feared that this drift of Parliament would overturn the sense of original parliamentaryism. Parliament was born as a place of representation of taxpayers and of oversight of taxpayers with respect to the will of the king, that is, of the government. Instead, it risks becoming an assembly that demands spending from the government; in an assembly - pass me the term a little'strong - of subjects who ask the sovereign more spending. Not surprisingly, Einaudi wanted to avoid the emendability of spending laws in Parliament. This proposal was not accepted and, in its place, Article 81 was introduced, as a garrison of which our Commissions are present, but - as is well known - it is a garrison that struggles to support. I believe that this is a problem that this legislature leaves in inheritance to the next. Anyone in the government will have to deal with this problem. This is all the more so - and this is the last consideration I make, ladies and gentlemen - that this habit of pressure on expenditure, of gaining space of expenditure (often structural and permanent current expenditure, made up of voices each of which has a thousand justifications, but on the whole they paint a framework that is difficult to sustain), risks colliding with the economic situation in which we are, which is fortunately a positive situation. We have more room for manoeuvre than at the beginning of the parliamentary term, but this must lead us to use a significant part of the dividend of growth in terms of public finance margins to reduce the debt that weighs on the Italians' shoulders. [[Applause from Senator Puppato]] This is a point which - I repeat - is not biased; I believe that this is an issue that will be faced by everyone who will be called to govern the Italians in the next parliamentary term. [[Applause from the PD and AP-CpE-NCD Groups]] I should like to end by thanking the House for this report, which concerns not only this budgetary session, but also the whole parliamentary term. The 5th Commission - which I know is the most loved Commission by my fellow Senators, because it is the most popular Commission, the one that is often forced to say about the most unpleasant Commission - held 858 sessions in this legislature: an unparalleled record by any other Commission. I would like to thank the Senate, first of all the PD Group that has proposed to me, the majority groups that elected me, and then all the senators and opposition groups, with whom I have collaborated, for the honour that I have been given to chair this important Commission, in a spirit that has always been of loyal confrontation and collaboration - I repeat - also with the opposition groups. I thank all the senators for their understanding of our remarks and our calls, which are often unpleasant. I say that the 5th Commission has the task of overseeing the principle of reality, while often the others are very attracted by the principle of pleasure (all things they would like to do) and then there is the reference to the principle of reality, which is often not popular nor pleasant, but it is necessary. I thank the Government, with which we have worked very actively, in particular Deputy Minister Morando, who has always guaranteed the work of our Commission an assiduous and rich participation in the content, obviously without taking anything away from the other representatives of the Government. Once again I thank the Offices, the General Secretariat that has always been close to us. In particular, I believe it is of great importance that the work he is doing on the evaluation of public policies, which was born in the wake of constitutional reform and has fortunately survived the collapse of the reform itself; I think it is a matter to be recovered if we want to resume the einaudian spirit I was talking about earlier. I would also like to thank the Budget Service, in particular Dr Loiero and all his collaborators, for the continuous and assiduous work of documentation, of extraordinary professionalism. Of course, I would like to thank the secretariat of the Commission, with whom we work every day, directed in an excellent way by Dr Piccardi, and all the members of the secretariat of the Commission, for their professionalism and generosity. Mr President, that is all. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-922.ana.u6	Senator Tonini, allow me to complete your quote from Einaudi, saying that Parliament must know before it takes its decision and you have rightly pointed out that Parliament is in danger of not being able to know, so your invitation is a warning that must be collected and I thank you for that. Ladies and gentlemen, in relation to Senator Tonini's report, the bill No 2960-B, since the examination has not been completed in the Commission, will be discussed in the text transmitted by the Chamber of Deputies without report, pursuant to Rule 44 (3) of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-922.ana.u7	Mr President, first of all, I would like to wish you every success because, although few people know it, today should be your birthday. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-922.ana.u8	I thank you and all of you for your good wishes.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-922.ana.u9	Mr Calderoli (Misto-LpSP). No one knows and it is curious, because you were born on 1 January. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Yeah, it's a fake I don't answer for. [[Laughter.]] Mr Calderoli (Misto-LpSP). If they knew, maybe they wouldn't vote for you as president of the Senate.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-922.ana.u10	Immediately after the war there was a chance to earn a year for the purpose of the call to arms, because our grandparents were so impressed by the war that they tried to reveal to me on January 1, 1945, even though they were born on December 23, 1944, actually premature. [[Laughter.]] Sorry about this personal curtain, but Senator Calderoli pushed me there.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-922.ana.u11	Mr President, I would like to thank President Tonini for his illustration, although he should have just told us that the examination in the Commission has not been completed, but I very much liked the comparison with the manoeuvres that are born lean and that end up fat, because he is also represented in this House: the maneuver comes with the rapporteur model Zanoni and comes out model Tonini! That makes the idea of how it works. [[Laughter. Applause]] Mr President, given the time and the desire to give a gift to the whole House, I withdraw the suspensive issue. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-922.ana.u12	He asked the Minister for Relations with Parliament, Senator Finocchiaro. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-922.ana.u13	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, on behalf of the Government, authorised by the Council of Ministers, I put the question of confidence in the approval, without amendments, sub-amendments or additional articles, of Article 1 of draft law No 2960-B (State Budget for the financial year 2018 and multiannual budget for the three years 2018-2020), in the text approved by the House of Deputies.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-922.ana.u14	The Presidency notes that the question of trust was raised about the adoption of Article 1 of bill No 2960-B, in the same text as that approved by the House of Deputies. I therefore call upon the Conference of Leaders to organise the relevant debate. The sitting is suspended. (The sitting was suspended at 9.31 a.m. and resumed at 9.53 p.m.)
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-922.ana.u15	Ladies and gentlemen, the Conference of Presidents of Parliament's Groups has organised work on the question of trust posed by the Government on Article 1 of the draft budget law for the financial year 2018, in the text approved by the House of Deputies. Thirty minutes were allocated for the discussion on confidence on the basis of specific requests from the Groups. The explanations of vote will follow. The call will start at 11 o'clock. After the vote of confidence, the remaining articles and amendments will be voted, as well as the final vote by electronic means of the draft law.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-922.ana.u16	I declare open the debate on the question of trust. He's enlisted to speak Senator Ciampolillo. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-922.ana.u17	With this budget law closes - fortunately - the experience of Government of the PD. This majority has reached the end of the line: it has finished dealing with the banks of Dad and all the numerous conflicts of interest that have characterized the operation. And I do not limit myself to recalling the resounding one of Boschi, Renzi and PD for Banca Etruria or Monte dei Paschi di Siena. They were able to cloud the infamous ad personam laws for former Senator Berlusconi, today painted by his Valvassini as a sort of redivive holy moralizer: his trusty Brunetta and Gasparri today show themselves to the Italians as fanciful men of state, after tearing the country apart when they were in the government. Certainly, they underestimate the memory of voters, who are still paying for the inability and bad faith of a political class that, from PD to Forza Italia, has thought more about miniskirts and ATMs than about the future of our boys. After all, who can forget the affable advice of Berlusconi, who as President of the Council invited Italian girls not already to study, but to choose a wealthy husband as his son? Today, in this fleeting majority, how can we not remember the TAP scandal (Trans Adriatic Pipeline) and the fussing attempt of Minister Calenda, in this last weekend, to get approved in the Commission the shameful militarization of one of the most beautiful areas of our country? I am referring to the wonderful Salento, where thousands of centuries-old olive trees have been carefully planned to make room for a useless and dangerous pipeline. Yes, I am talking about Minister Calenda, the one who uses his ministry to unfairly attack Virginia Rays and to cover up the unworthy business that his political area of belonging has done in recent years against the citizens of Rome. That same Minister Calenda who in recent days, on the occasion of the dangerous accident in a gas distribution plant in Austria, defended the supposed strategic importance of the realization of the TAP pipeline in the heart of the natural beauty of my beloved Puglia. [[Applause from Senator Nugnes.]] The shameful amendment, especially after the protests of the 5 Star Movement, has been declared inadmissible. That is why I thank my colleague Boccia, who, even on this occasion, perhaps with greater luck, has favoured the reasons for peace, as well as the hypotized use of the notorious F35 with which he suggested to put out the fires, confusing warplanes with harmless Canadair. But that's okay. Boccia is also part of PD. Despite the failure of the Calenda initiative, it remains the arrogance of a gesture that, once again, has highlighted the scandalous conflicts of interest that surround the Government. Calenda has been operating for months as a minister of the TAP. After all, the new chief of staff, as published by "L'Espresso" is a TAP man: he is a resounding man of the TAP consortium. In short, the Ministry for Economic Development is today run by a private company that, against the will of the citizens of Apulia, is realizing a useless and dangerous pipeline in one of the most beautiful places in the Mediterranean. The government of old politics is plunged into conflicts of interest. The Minister for Economic Development Calenda is at TAP like Boschi is at Banca Etruria. These gentlemen are always at their posts, while the young people of our country continue to find no work, sinking into precariousness, as happens for the researchers of the CNR of Bari. And, in the meantime, this PD has finally sunk down the possibility of abolishing the vitalities. The truth is that this majority of government, apart from the talk of Renzi and Gentiloni, has shown itself to be anything but transparent and democratic. [[Call the president back.]] The old flaw of closing down in the Palace and making it difficult for citizens to have free access to fair and equal information - as happened a few days ago in the RAI Supervisory Committee, where all colleagues voted against our request to broadcast Parliament's work live on digital terrestrial and in clear to all citizens - is unacceptable.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-922.ana.u18	Get it done.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-922.ana.u19	CHAMPOLILLO (M5S). The violation of the principle of equality is obvious, obvious and - in my opinion - scandalous. I hope that the Italian citizens will soon do justice, restoring to this wonderful nation the opportunity to resume dreaming of a better future for everyone: as I think it is, a five-star future. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]] BUEMI (Aut (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT)-PSI-MAIE). Bravo! PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator Amidei is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-922.ana.u20	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, there is very little time available, so I wish you all and your families a happy Christmas. I would now like to turn to the saddest note of these five years of parliamentary life, which I have not lived completely. However, it took me three to understand the failures of the successive governments towards Italy and Italian citizens. Given the tyrant's time - I only have two minutes - I would like to move on to the list of some problems, so that people have no doubts about the failure of the Governments Monti, Letta, Renzi and Gentiloni Silveri. We only think of immigration policy - the so-called migrants - and social policies; not to mention pensions, with pensioners now seventy years old - we now make them die - and exodus. Labour policies and jobs act are an absolute failure, with people who are and will continue to get fired because of apparent job security that will last for a short time. Then I remember the issues of justice and self-defense. There is one of my draft laws which, unfortunately, will never be adopted in this parliamentary term, but I hope it will be in the next. There is also the so-called Molteni bill on the subject of the abbreviated ritual, because of which there are families who are paying and suffering enormous damage. I am also thinking of the so-called good school - in fact, good has not been - the economy; the contribution and tax reductions that have not been made; the economic policies to help businesses that have not been there, with levels of taxation that are the highest in Europe; the growth in telephone prefixes and the many young people (almost 40%) who find themselves unemployed. Then there was the decision not to adopt a single taxation model such as flat tax. We are not talking about another important sector, which is the primary one: agriculture has been distracted from all points of view, with a crisis in the sector now perennial, from fruit and vegetables, to cereals, to sugar. It is not considered the role that farmers play in the protection of the environment and the fact that businesses operate in the respect of social life and society. Finally, I would like to say a few words about another aspect, which also deserves the opening of a chapter. I am referring to the so-called Santini amendment, which this Government wanted to endorse. It has been removed from a municipality, where there is the regasifier, the possibility of using the IMU, ICI and TASI, to facilitate the multinationals, thus subtracting revenues that could have been used for the benefit of citizens. Mr President, this is my last speech in this parliamentary term. I would like to say that the current Government will have a great responsibility for not being able to give right to citizens' demands and to the thousands of questions and questions I have fought for, which lie unheard of. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I wish you every success because Christmas is always Christmas. [[Applause from Senator Cassinelli. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-922.ana.u21	Senator Bignami is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-922.ana.u22	Mr President, I do not use the time available, since it has been more than halved. Mr President, I would like to thank everyone for the fact that, as far as I am concerned, it will be my last speech. I would like to applaud the long work of interaction 'one-to-one', which led to a positive aspect in the draft law under consideration: the recognition of the figure of the caregiver. All together we decided to start a path that, however, did not come to an end, because there are still so many unresolved problems, first of all that of health. In any case, in this draft budget law we have the definition of who cares: finally the state will begin to take care of those who care, and this is already a point of arrival. We have set up a fund that - I want to specify - is bound, no divisions are made: the fund is bound to any draft laws that will be made for them. I am sorry that, for the haste to become ministers in a new government, for your haste to have a place of command, for your haste to be able to determine yourself as the next winners, we must give up, for a few days, for less than a month, the achievement of a dream of so many people. I am referring to the draft law assigned in the deliberating session to the 11th Commission, where it lies. It would take just a few days, and I would like to appeal to you, Mr President, if only you could give a few days to this troubled parliamentary term, we could certainly bring home two very important results. The first is precisely the aforementioned bill on the caregiver; the second - another important issue - is the bill lying in 13a. Commission, including in its deliberations, on the removal of architectural barriers. Again, you of the majority could bring home struggles of simple common sense and civilization for all. Unfortunately, there are problems which I leave and - I am aware of this - will certainly not be resolved in this parliamentary term, but which are certainly worthy of a nod. We have unprepared support teachers; a school that doesn't absolutely manage its beginning for all the thousands of disabled children who face it. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Conclude, please. BIGNAMI (Misto-MovX). I'll finish, ma'am. And above all the vulnus remains for the school: we have introduced the school-work alternation, but there is not a single word written on how disabled children should be managed in this case. Thank you all. I thank all those who have managed to understand me and also those who have not succeeded. A Merry Christmas to all, a good life to all and a good next legislature! [[Applause from the PD Group and Senator Buemi]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-922.ana.u23	She's enlisted to speak Senator Blondo. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-922.ana.u24	Mr President, this is probably the last time I have spoken in this House and, above all, I am speaking in general debate about a budget law. For four years we have seen the adoption by this House of budget laws which very little or almost nothing has given our citizens. Almost nothing has shown that they want to offer the public good. On the contrary, I am proud to belong to a Movement that has always worked only and exclusively according to the good of all citizens, without wanting to protect one part at the expense of others, without wanting to guarantee prevalence or privileges to anyone. I am proud of the Movement to which I belong and how my colleagues have worked and spent up to the last in this budget law, both in the Senate and in the House, participating in the many and very long sessions of the Commission. The disorganization of a government and a majority that were not even able to guarantee well the cover of the amendments it wanted to bring home had to be safeguarded, and this was due to a continuous disorganization and competition between the political groups within this House, in order to agree and snatch the content to guarantee their territory or their lobby, which brought them in and supports them for the next election campaign. Despite the accusations made to the Bank of Italy and despite Renzi, in these days, he has done nothing but try to exonerate himself for the serious affair of Bank Etruria and the collusions that emerged within a Commission of inquiry that has been initiated - that yes, unlike the Commission of inquiry on the Eagle, which unfortunately has not been initiated - you did not want to include, among the various legal measures, that instead you have beautifully inserted and bypassing the rules of the Commission budget, a measure that, with consistency of decision, was necessary to insert: that is, tax the balance sheet of the Bank of Italy with a minimum percentage, equal to one percent net of the corrective voices of the liabilities, as it was proposed in the bill that I deposited and in the amendment from which it was drawn. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I invite you to conclude, Senator Blondo. BLUNDO (M5S). I shall conclude, Mr President, by saying that the tax applied on the total activity of the Bank of Italy's balance sheet would have marked a reversal of the trend towards debt, which was mentioned earlier, and would have increased the ceiling of this balance sheet with more than seven billions, although they are not of current expenditure, are a large figure. There would have been no risk of damaging the financial and institutional independence of the Bank of Italy, as it is established that any future change in the percentage is subject to the functional needs of monetary policy. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I'm gonna have to take your word for it if you don't finish. BLUNDO (M5S). I shall conclude, Mr President. There was no harm to the European treaties and the State has exclusive jurisdiction over other states and is entitled to legislate in tax matters. I conclude by saying that many of the amendments proposed by our Movement have been approved in the House and they are all for the public good. [[Applause from Senator Donno. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-922.ana.u25	Senator Cioffi is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-922.ana.u26	Mr President, I am speaking on a very specific subject. In particular, I refer to paragraph 568 (a) of Article 1. Only on this, even if we could talk about the 1180 commi for a long time. This paragraph interests me particularly, because it is yet another gift made to motorway dealers. In fact, the amount of works that motorway dealers can do without tendering has been increased to 40%. And that creates a profound problem. In the 8th Commission, President Matteoli succeeded, on a proposal from all the members of all the Groups, in having the contract for the concession of Autostrade for Italy, which we have studied; and we also presented an article to the DAC on this subject. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] We have verified that the investment value, which is what determines the tariff, has been overrated. In particular, it is considered that the investment value, resulting from the metric calculation, was discounted, in the convention, by 15%, rather than the average decrease that applies to public road works, which is 25%. This has led to an increase in the investment value and, therefore, a higher fee for users than should have been for two billion euros. Minister Delrio is about to sign an extension of the concession and, moreover, increases the investment value of another 6,7 billion, then granting Autostrade for Italy a coupon of 5,7 billion. We went to ANAC to say that these things are in the interests not of the citizens but, probably, of someone. And, although those acts were signed by officials, the Minister cannot be evaded by political responsibility, in view of the fact that the first act was signed by Minister Lupi on 24 December 2013: a beautiful Christmas gift. Now Minister Delrio is signing a new act. We believe that Christmas presents should be given to citizens, that these things are absolutely out of the world, that such a disaster must be stopped and that concessions must be made public. We have compared the concession of Autostrade for Italy with the concession of Airports of Rome, being the concessionaire the same, that is the company Atlantia, controlled in turn from the society Edition srl, whose managing director is "strangely" the former managing director of Telecom Italia Patuano, These people always come back, are always them. We see that within the framework of the contract of Aeroporti of Rome there is transparency, because published on the website of ENAC while on the contract of Autostrade for Italy there is no transparency. Minister Delrio does not think he will sign that extension, and above all he does not think he can discharge responsibility on the official who will materially sign the act. We will monitor, indeed we will immediately bring the papers to the judicial authority, and therefore, we will denounce the Minister from the criminal point of view if he does so. It is not conceivable that at the end of the legislature a gift is given to the usual powerful. What we see is that you always hit normal people. But when you find someone who has the economic power to influence politics, you never hit him. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] That is why you no longer have reason to exist, either on the one hand or above all on the other. Those of a certain part are not quite right, because they have never defended the interests, indeed they have always been in conflict of interests. Even today Berlusconi still hears about the liberal revolution is really to be vomited: he who killed the hypothesis of having a liberal right in this country. [[Applause from the M5S Group. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-922.ana.u27	He is registered to speak Senator Barozzino. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-922.ana.u28	Mr President, in fact, given the conditions, I had decided not to intervene at all, but this majority and this Government do not lose the opportunity to make it clear which side they are on, that is, the part of the forts. Yesterday I happened to read in this measure that there is even - this time it is clearly written, and therefore without a doubt - a reduction in the structural resources planned by INAIL for the financing of investment and training projects in the field of safety at work. This is in practice the final blow - if you can say so - to workers, to those who work and earn what is strictly necessary to be able to live. In all honesty, I have no words. Yesterday we held a press conference, as a Committee of Inquiry into Safety at Work. Now, reading what you have introduced and seeing that my colleagues in that Commission are going to vote for this disaster, I really consider it an incredible thing. It is also true, Mr President, that from a certain point of view these are people who are consistent with everything they have done, working now - what is identified as in work - a few hours or at most two or three days a week. And it's clear that someone might even ask things for safety at work. I must say that from this point of view only those who have maintained some consistency in wanting to destroy the rights and dignity of work. Yesterday, in a friendly discussion, Senator Santini told me that we are very imaginative in saying things against the jobs act. This is part of what you say, Senator Santini. But I want to remind you of one thing: you have practically the same experience as me and those who are born a trade unionist are forever. If you remember, because such nefariousness - of course I am not just saying it to you, but to all of you - the workers really do not deserve it. At this point it is right that this legislature should end, because it has been very heavy and a tragedy for those who really want to represent the healthy part of this country. [[Applause from the Misto-SI-SEL-LEU Group and Senator Campanella.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-922.ana.u29	She's enlisted to speak Senator Moronese. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-922.ana.u30	Mr President, I would like to speak on the draft budget law before us in order to make it clear to everyone, and above all to the citizens who listen to us from home, that this year, as for the other four already past, the Government and the majority have lost the opportunity to give a vision of the future to Italy. Without structural measures, there is neither confidence nor stability, there is no trace of the path that everyone needs to go in the same direction. We have seen you running and chasing Ministers and Undersecretaries to approve amendments, to allow someone to carry out his own campaign, or to bring money to foundations and companies of the usual friends of friends. All this hurts Italy and shows that you are not credible. There are so many mistakes that you have made and that could be avoided, such as the decontribution to 50% for companies taking on increasing protection. Renzi had already tried it, burning 20 billion in three years of 100% decontribution on social security contributions; but it was money thrown away, considering that they pushed companies to hire with the contract to increasing protections only to receive the bonus, even by transforming the contracts in term, and therefore not new jobs, but simple transformations of contracts. The decontribution has created a bubble of new contracts to increasing protections, which has just deflated Renzi has withdrawn the incentive (since 2016). Since that year, almost only time contracts have grown. Now Gentiloni tries again, however with a reduced measure, from 100 percent decontribution to 50 percent, always for a maximum of three years and only for the under 35. Stable work is not created either by standards such as jobs act, or by incentives, but is created by productive investments that create stable demand for businesses and therefore need for new jobs. There are many things to do, both as ordinary as the maintenance of the territory and in public transport, as innovative as the conversion of the economy from fossil to renewable, or as in the field of energy saving, and a credible and precise policy in the real development of the ultra-wide band. If we do not have a Government that will operate seriously in these areas and with continuity, the results will always be the same, that is the bankruptcy of this Government, that goes on with coin operations: if it puts the token, the carousel spins; if it does not put it, the carousel stops. Then there is the extension of the ecobonus. For a long time we have continued to extend the ecobonus by only one year at a time, rather than stabilize it for at least five years as the 5 Star Movement has always demanded. The annual extension does not allow families and businesses to design and, for businesses, to make long-term plans means everything. Having regulatory stability to plan the investment is at the heart of an enterprise. With the stabilisation of the ecobonus, a lot of new jobs could have been created. This government, on the other hand, reduced the ecobonus from 65 percent to 50 percent for many types of interventions and therefore, in part, did even worse than the Renzi Government. There is also an attack on health care. From now on, there will be a reduction in investment in health care by 2020 and this is alarming, given that most people today are forced to give up their health care, because they can no longer take care of themselves. To afford it. [[Applause from Senator Airola.]] Health has been under attack for years and the Gentiloni Government Silveri is no exception. Also in the 2018 budget law there are direct and indirect cuts to the national health fund for billions of euros. It is the weakest groups who pay the bill, often forced to give up treatment because of the long waiting lists and the excessive cost of private health care, which is growing. The prospect of a series A and B health care is taking shape year after year. Also for 2018 the Government has foreseen significant cuts compared to the initial forecasts. The total resources for next year had been set at 114 billion euros, and then, with a ministerial decree, they have been reduced by 604 million euros, to which is added another reduction of 94 million euros for the sanitary building. So, in summary, there is nothing concrete to combat youth unemployment, nor to support institutions that are in a state of financial failure due to spending review: nothing at all. Even on this occasion, if there have been few positive things approved it is thanks to us and our work. On the other hand, we in the 5 Star Movement do not need to thank any lobby that finances our electoral campaigns. We act only for the real interest of the citizens. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] The only positive things that we read in this law are those that have approved the 5 Star Movement, such as the amendment by my colleague Vignaroli, which recognizes a tax credit of 36% to companies that buy products made from materials derived from mixed plastics coming from the separate collection of packaging or from selections of municipal residual waste. Then there is that of my colleague Fraccaro: finally also in Italy will be introduced those systems with which an electric car can give energy to the network, making it an intelligent system. That's a nice way to use technology. Then there is the Jordan amendment, which increases the allocation of the fund for the care of subjects with autistic spectrum disturbance by EUR 5 million for each of the years 2019 and 2020. In short, these are just some of the proposals that we have managed to pass - and the difference, compared to your proposals, is seen and noticed - useful and practical proposals, which are good for citizens and businesses, reduce consumption and waste and increase employment, create new opportunities and provide care for those who need it. Dear colleagues, perhaps this is my last speech in this House and, wishing to reflect, I must say that we have certainly grown here in experience and outside the palace in number, because of all your bad choices, which have represented for us battles conducted alongside the citizens; like when you wanted to privatise water, or gave the green light to new incinerators in Italy, or when you took money from people to give it to the banks, or even when you were all convinced that you even wanted to abolish the Senate of the Republic and we, together with the sovereign people, prevented it. [[Applause from the M5S Group. Congratulations.]] In short, if a new government is coming, the first government of the citizens, without lobbying, it is also a little 'thank you, that you have made it clear to everyone that the only solution is a 5 Star government. Up your hearts, citizens! [[Applause from the M5S Group. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-922.ana.u31	He's enlisted to speak Senator Cucchetti. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-922.ana.u32	Mr President, it is not an abuse of the patience of this House and I would simply ask the Presidency to attach to today's Minutes the speech I give in written form, in which I explain, from my point of view, what the true history of the web tax was, how the House has distorted the provision approved by the Senate and how it risks not having the revenue that is proposed, estimated and spent. [[Applause from Senators Bell, Marino Luigi and Tocci.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-922.ana.u33	The Presidency authorizes you to do so, Senator Cucchetti. I declare closed the debate on the question of trust posed by the Government.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-922.ana.u34	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-922.ana.u35	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-922.ana.u36	URAS (Mixed-CP-S). Mr President, I speak only for a few minutes, using strict language and referring to the truth of the facts. Five years have passed and we have forgotten that this Parliament and this legislature have been born in a phase of deep crisis in the country; in a situation in which the result of an emergency government was gathered, born from the overcoming of the electoral majority of the previous legislature; in a profound economic, social, institutional and political crisis; a country that had recorded a collapse of the gross domestic product, still largely to be recovered. 10.30 a.m. (URAS followed). If we use the strict language of truth, we should say that we return the country in a very different condition and, therefore, they dishonate all the proclamations that still feel and even the propaganda, which for a long time anticipate the electoral campaign, with which we give an image of the country and its institutions even heavier than that lived in the previous legislature. Unfortunately, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, we do not honour ourselves either. I also say this to those who use aggressive tones more than any other. This is a legislature in which many measures have been adopted by a very large majority, in which enormous steps have been taken in terms of human and civil rights and also enormous steps have been taken in terms of political, institutional and economic and social order. It would suffice to point out some of these points to say that those aggressive words and propagandas are truly exorbitant to reality. I would like to mention the provision on civil unions, but it would also be sufficient to mention the recently adopted measure, by a very large majority, on biological wills. It would be enough to think about what we have done about domestic crimes, to give more attention to orphans, and adoptions, allowing foster families today to maintain a continuity of relationship with the child entrusted, even in a structured adoption in a definitive way, with the care that, in such situations, must be addressed to the child. It would be enough to think about these issues or about the many other initiatives taken, such as, for example, in favour of our institutional system and the small municipalities, or the many measures decided by a very large majority. Even in the draft budget law, which goes beyond what is being said, very important measures, legislative acts and provisions have been adopted in the Commissions on the substance by a very large majority. I am proud to say that one of the rules - but it is one of many - concerns the reclamation of Italian polygons. Today we have a clear procedure, which intervenes to clean up, in case of exercise, within one hundred and eighty days all the Italian polygons, to safeguard the health of the defence operators and in support of the environmental policies of the Country, through a structural and meaningful intervention also from the financial point of view. In conclusion, Mr President, I believe that we are heading towards a very difficult and complicated election campaign, which will not give the country any certainty of government. And those who think that a setback of the advanced lineup could reward some of its components are certainly wrong. If anyone thinks that the unity that should be found in the democratic side should instead be avoided, I do not think it is doing the good of the country and not even the good of our democracy. I think we should think, in these hours and days, about this issue and work more and better. I wish you, Mr President, the whole of this House and all the officials who have been very patient with us in this work, the parliamentary assistants, who often had to stand in the way when the House became glowing and was immediately offended, which I believe should not have been subjected to, as far as the behaviour of the senators is concerned. I wish everyone a good holiday and I also wish everyone a chance to find us, if not here in the political history of this country, to defend our convictions with respect for others. [[Applause from the Mixed and PD Groups and Senator Orellana.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-922.ana.u37	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-922.ana.u38	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-922.ana.u39	BELLOT (NCI). Mr President, Mr President-in-Office of the Government, ladies and gentlemen, this is the last budget law of this Government and the last confidence in an innumerable sequence of votes of confidence to which we have always responded with a firm no. It is certainly not a 'no' in part, because it is not in our way of working, but because of the total absence of a strategic plan capable of giving adequate answers to the problems of our citizens, to the problems and difficulties that are before us all, perhaps not under yours. I therefore confirm what has already been expressed, which is also evident at this stage: a clear and clear picture of a majority which in a failed way masks all the weaknesses of internal tensions, the difficulty of converging in a plan of structural and incisive reforms, necessary and unavoidable. There is a strong lack of a strategic vision of the medium and long term, which we have always hoped for. And then if part of those interventions that we requested at first reading at the Senate did not find an answer, perhaps because presented by the opposition and therefore not worthy of note, even if full of content, to the House, where the majority is wider and the risks are null, they have been taken up only in order to be able to say: This is what we did. In fact, among other things, the resources have come to an end, as the President of the Budget Committee said before: it was really like carrying out a new budget law in the House, with a wealth, an opulence, a quantity of money that was unfortunately not available to the Senate. Returning to the proposals, we remember that they were and are our proposals, proposals of those who have a vision diametrically opposed to yours and for whom the consistency is undeniable, so much so that you then made use of it. We are convinced that a constructive relationship is born from being able to grasp how much he knows how to say who cares about our families, our young people, our elderly, this country as a whole, in order to build a concrete future, a future made up of stability, the possibility of planning the future itself. As I said, many of our proposals, therefore, have been taken to second reading, in order not to leave room for minorities. But let's welcome, let's say, your step back. We are not interested in planting flags, we are interested in the good of the country and therefore the result. Let us think of the resources for the livestock sector in mountain or disadvantaged areas, or of the stabilization for the deduction of fees for university housing for out-of-home residents in disadvantaged or mountainous areas, whose distance is reduced to 50 kilometres: our amendment which we tabled in the so-called tax decree, an amendment which was strongly fought and wanted for which we had, from the outset, called for stabilisation both in the Commission and in this House, after the amendment itself had been tabled. Well, we are satisfied with this result, satisfied that at last this insistence, our will to stabilize our concrete proposals has been satisfied. So we have worked hard in this direction as well as on other facets and we have seen that, finally, when things are concrete, the majority must also bow to the evidence of the answers that lead to the good of the country. We are satisfied, therefore, that you have understood all this; sin you understood only when it made you more comfortable and not at first reading when it could be overcome directly the problem. But much more has not been understood or heard. We think of the women's option, which we strongly wanted and advocated with amendments and even supported, hoping that the House would have a second thought; therefore, it is essential to raise women who, with self-denial, have to take responsibility often - indeed, I would almost always say - for a poor socio-assistant system. Something's been done, we have to say it. Much has been taken up by what was presented at first reading at the Senate, but too much remains to be done. We expected more responses and less extensions, adapted to other measures, certainly not to a budget law. But the most serious choice, which concerns the extensions, is the one on which we cannot but point the finger; in fact, it concerns the devices of the lawful game. While local authorities also strive with the few resources they have to discourage slot machines, you extend the deadline for the release of clearance; all with huge social costs, with social implications that are burdensome and sometimes disastrous for families and individuals and unfortunately with harmful long-term effects. In exchange for what? In exchange for immediate liquidity, in exchange for the possibility of having fresh resources that will then be dispersed over the years to repair the damage that all this will result. We have continued to urge and ask for measures that restore dignity, that postpone the image of a political class and an Executive that, with concreteness, seriousness and love for our country and with the will to give answers and the possibility of a future to the citizens, we hope - at this point in the next legislature - will reverse a course - unfortunately always carried forward by you - and find stable solutions, those that we will certainly give. We with Italy will vote no to this confidence. [[Applause from the NCI Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-922.ana.u40	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-922.ana.u41	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-922.ana.u42	COMAROLI (LN-Aut). Mr President, in announcing the North-League Group's vote against this budget law, I ask for permission to give my written speech, which sets out the reasons for it. I would like to take this opportunity to wish all the Members of this House, all the officials of the Senate and the mythical Budget Committee - and of course of the whole structure - a peaceful Christmas and, above all, a good year. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-922.ana.u43	We thank and return the wishes of Senator Comaroli, once again an example of wisdom. The Presidency shall authorise it to deliver the written text of its speech.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-922.ana.u44	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-922.ana.u45	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-922.ana.u46	Mr Barani (ALA). Mr President, we, of course, also make our contribution to this budget law, an important and decisive contribution because our presence in the budget committee, both at first and at second reading, has been decisive both in terms of numbers and content. Of course, we are extremely pleased to have helped to allow the country to have those reforms that some previous colleague, like Senator Uras, wanted to mention. A legislature which was to be the shortest of all, has proved to be a legislature of reforms, in which important laws on civil rights have been passed but also reforms for development. We therefore believe that, as a child, we have made a decisive contribution to ensuring that some of our colleagues can say that they have been enriched in recent years, that they have learned and that they have therefore learned about legislative and parliamentary techniques; of course we are proud and proud of this. Ours was a daily work, silent, "Franciscan" without any barter, thinking only of the good of the country. If in this budget law there will be the possibility of development for the country and important reforms - as President Tonini said, the law has entered very thin, but it has gone out obese, but we believe that it is not a pathological overweight - it will be thanks to the hard work and the evolution of a political-legislative dialectics that has allowed to have an important law for 2018. I therefore vote in favour, wishing all of you, on behalf of our Group and my staff, a merry Christmas to you and your families. [[Applause from the ALA Group and Senator Mirabelli.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-922.ana.u47	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-922.ana.u48	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-922.ana.u49	BONFRISCO (FL (Id-PL, PLI)). Mr President, I rise to announce my Group's vote against this budget law, but also to join in the words of President Tonini in thanking all the colleagues and officials who have accompanied the work of the Budget Commission, under the leadership of President Tonini and President Azzollini, over the years. It is a vote against which we express with regret, hoping that, far beyond Christmas, things can improve. [[Applause from Senators Compañera and Marino Luigi]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-922.ana.u50	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-922.ana.u51	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-922.ana.u52	DE PETRIS (Misto-SI-SEL-LEU). Mr President, the parliamentary term ends in the same way that it has been distinguished several times in recent years: we have never voted on a budget law with normal procedures, and that is clearly the hallmark of this parliamentary term. The time has also come for the budgets and I believe that the figures are in everyone's eyes: this has been a bad legislature, in fact under the banner of all austerity policies from the point of view of economic and social impact. Apart from the propaganda that has occasionally been done against austerity policies, it has actually reconfirmed itself over time. During this parliamentary term, choices were made in the name of the precariousness of the labour market, bonuses and publicity and electoral measures. The data, however, are now before everyone's eyes; we cannot continue to pretend nothing. I would like to point out here that, since the beginning of the crisis, public investment has fallen by 35%; production capacity by 27%; GDP by 6.4%. There are 11 million Italians and Italians who give up treatment because they cannot pay tickets; 5 million people live in absolute poverty. By the way, just a few weeks ago, ISTAT told us that half of Italian families are at risk of poverty. These are the data and you can't pretend to hide them. So, after all these years of your advertising care, Italy eventually finds itself as a more unequal country, in which the poor have increased, there is more social suffering and more economic depression. You've got politics wrong. You have privileged, in fact, tax gifts and businesses; you have chosen the baby bonus instead of kindergartens; you have transformed the labour market into a labour market, jobs into jobs. With your so-called structural reforms you have completely destructured the work. 62 billion has been spent on bonuses and tax reductions over the past five years: we believe that they are resources thrown into the wind; much more had to be done. You have chosen this formula for two reasons: for an electoral and advertising reason and, in fact, for the ideological choice of a failed economic policy. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, it is clear that these policies and choices, on the one hand, were clearly the result of improvisation, on the other hand, of a re-accession - in fact, ideological - to an idea of exit from the crisis which, in our opinion, has proved completely wrong, and the data I mentioned earlier are proving it. The 62 billion euros that we believe have been thrown into the wind in a policy made simply of rain incentives and bonuses, if included in a serious investment policy, could instead have produced much more stable fruits for the country's exit from the crisis. These recipes were unsuccessful, while a completely different operation would have been necessary. I would like to focus, among other things, on the second recipe that has characterized these five years, namely the precariousness of the labour market, with the so-called structural reforms. It has produced a growth not of good, useful and permanent jobs, but only of precarious and occasional ones, of jobs precisely, so much so that we have figures and statistics that tell us that the increase in employment, depending on how we calculate it, is 800,000-900,000 units, except that in the same period the hours worked have dropped by 1.2 billion; which means precisely that they are small jobs, at hours, occasional and precarious. The inequalities, I repeat, have increased and it does not serve any purpose a w elfare made for commercials and small ads, such as those of the fight against poverty, which then have no substance and structuring. Instead, we think that clear and precise proposals would have been needed, as we have tried to do in recent years and also in this last budget law: devolve one percent of GDP to public investment; build a green work plan based on investment to create jobs; a plan to expand education in our country and invest in school and research; abolish supertickets; recover resources (e.g. by canceling the F-35 programme) and increase taxation on those who have and can give this country the most. We think precisely of an intervention that would have been necessary, that is no less taxes for everyone, but for those who already pay so many, and more taxes for those who have a great heritage. These are the objectives that we have tried to decline in recent years. In this country a serious industrial policy must be put in place, based essentially on a process of ecological conversion. In recent times we have seen that the President of the Council has rediscovered climate change, but be careful that in order to oppose and make a plan that can deal with this great planetary emergency we need serious policies and a profound transformation of the productive system and consumption, in order to accompany with serious measures and not to tarnish the transition from fossil inertia, all based on a serious process of freeing. On the other hand, the choices, even in this budgetary policy, have once again not only been partial but, in some respects, even contrary to energy policy choices. The objectives we have pursued in recent years are to ensure that the State returns to the field of a regìa for a public policy that, in order to make a development process re-develop, can be based essentially on policies in public investment (the opposite of what you have done): investment in elfare and to combat inequalities. These are the objectives that we will continue to pursue and we are convinced that they will constitute the only possibility for Italy to get out of the crisis and to have a hope of the future. Work is the main source of this wealth: investing in work, elfare and rights is our plan to arrive at the definition of a real program for our country. We want to put in place - and this will also be the challenge in the early election campaign - radically alternative policies to those that have been pursued in recent years, which are really the only ones that can give us a free and equal Italy. For all these reasons, the Senators of the Italian Left-Left Ecology Freedom-Free and Equal will vote no to the confidence of this Government. [[Applause from the Mixed-SI-SEL-LEU and Art.1-MDP-LEU Groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-922.ana.u53	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-922.ana.u54	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-922.ana.u55	ZELLER (Aut (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT)-PSI-MAIE). Mr President, this is the 24th time I have followed a budget law. Compared to the 1990s the context is much more complex and the resources available are much less than once. Nevertheless, I believe that Parliament has done a good job, which is fundamental to the special autonomy that we represent. Beyond the other important measures for families and businesses, it is above all the transfer of primary legislative competence for large hydroelectric concessions that complements the administrative competences already transferred in the year 2000; for us, this is a historic achievement, which further strengthens our special autonomy. I would remind you that in the last four years we have changed the Statute of Trentino-Alto Adige/Südtirol four times: once in the case of the Law on the Protection of the Ladins, adopted by the ordinary procedure aggravated under Article 138 of the Constitution, and three times with the law on pacts, that is, with the accelerated procedure provided for by Article 104 of the Statute. A result like this, from 1948 to today, has never happened. In addition to the expertise on energy, we have managed to obtain the assignment of competence on local taxes and local finance. There has been a new financial agreement that has made our Provinces responsible, where - I remind my colleagues - a billion euros is paid to the state's coffers. In return, we have obtained the opportunity to better plan our budgets, contributing to the consolidation of the state budget and obtaining legal certainty and less State interference. We have also managed to unblock the state's funds for Valle d'Aosta and our two provinces, which will allow a full and effective budgetary policy for the coming years. I would also like to thank President Calderoli, because the amendment to the Rules of Procedure of the Senate, with the derogation for linguistic minorities and special autonomy, ensures that our Group will also be in this House in the future. In recent years there has therefore been a particularly fertile season, after a period of stalemate lasted almost ten years, which reached its climax during the Monti Government, when drastic measures were taken against the special autonomy, with the risk of undermining the basis of the same. For this reason, we supported with conviction first the Letta Government, then, the Renzi Government and, now, the Silver Gentile Government, which have always been sensitive to the needs of our autonomy. I would like to thank, in particular, President Napolitano, but also the Minister for relations with Parliament, Anna Finocchiaro, Deputy Minister Morando, the Undersecretary Maria Elena Boschi, the Undersecretary Gianclaudio Bressa, President Zanda and President Tonini, not only for the great availability, but also for the patience with which they have been confronted with us on issues that may sometimes seem a bit exotic, but that in reality are of great importance for the people who live in our territories on the borders with France, Austria and Switzerland, who have needs and problems often very different from those of the rest of Italy. Allow me also to express my personal thanks, because after almost twenty-four years of parliamentary activity, this will most likely be my last speech in this House. I must say that, of the six legislatures that I have done, the latter in the Senate was undoubtedly the most beautiful for me because of the excellent climate of cooperation that has been created not only with the Government, but also with my fellow Heads of Group and with the officials of the Senate. I have always found great respect for our diversity of language, culture and traditions. In this - I must admit - Italy and its ruling class have always stood out positively compared to other countries, such as Spain, France or Greece, which have had a much less respectful attitude towards the autonomy and their minorities. [[Applause from the Aut Groups (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT) - PSI-MAIE, PD and Art.1-MDP-LEU]] Have you ever wondered how the story of South Tyrol would end if we had not had characters like Aldo Moro, Giulio Andreotti, Giorgio Napolitano, Alcide Berloffa and Silvius Magnago? Most likely today we would still be a poor Province, plagued by ethnic conflicts, in strong opposition to the central government of Rome, in a continuous state of emergency, if not even in a sort of civil war, rather than becoming a model territory for Europe - and perhaps also for the world - which showed how the harshest conflicts can be peacefully resolved. The results can be seen: from one of the poorest regions in Italy, with a strong emigration in the sixties and seventies, thanks to the special autonomy, our territory has evolved, so much to boast today the full employment, the highest GDP per capita of the Italian Provinces and with a fiscal residual of 2,300 euros, always per capita, thus falling back in the neighborhood of the few Italian Regions in active, behind only Lombardy, Emilia-Romagna and Veneto in the contribution towards the coffers of the State. We pay a lot more than other regions in the country that are in deficit. I would therefore like to take this opportunity to thank the Government and this Parliament for the far-sightedness and prudentness of the choices made. I am sure that, in the spirit that has always animated the political forces of this country, also given the excellent relationship that has always distinguished relations with Austria, we will be able to resolve with reasonableness and moderation also the question of the so-called double passport, an issue too delicate and important to leave it to the provocateurs of the Austrian national populist right, but also within our own Province. For these reasons, the Group for Autonomies (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT)-PSI-MAIE will express confidence to the Government on the draft budget law. [[Applause from the Aut Groups (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT) - PSI-MAIE), PD and AP-CpE-NCD. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-922.ana.u56	Senator Zeller, in the face of dual citizenship, we will have to make a double budget law: an Austrian and an Italian for their respective resources.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-922.ana.u57	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-922.ana.u58	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-922.ana.u59	WAR (Art. 1-MDP-LEU). Mr President, after the transition to the House, all we have to do is confirm the negative opinion of Group Article 1 - MDP - Free and Equal about a budgetary maneuver that tirelessly repeats recipes that lack an overall vision; recipes that have already proved inadequate, wrong, unable to guarantee our country an economic growth worthy of this name, that is, guided by investment and that is sustainable from an environmental and social point of view. Particularly painful in this respect for us is the chapter on health, which remains largely underfunded and with reference to which we have long denounced the risk that a universal service will be permanently compromised, limiting health to a privilege for a few. Particularly serious in this respect is the farce of the failure to abolish the superticket. In view of the limited time available, I would like to stress, as far as the substance is concerned, the issue of legality, which is an essential issue for us. There are two pejorative elements, which we have opposed with all our strength, that this bill introduces in the matter of anti-mafia certification, denouncing choices made by these Chambers only a few months ago with the reform of the anti-mafia code. On the one hand, agricultural companies that have applied for subsidies to the European Union within the limit of EUR 25,000 (and this is the fault of the Senate) are exempt from certification; on the other hand, - and this is the fault of the House - a threshold is re-introduced below which associations of companies must not apply for certification. Companies participating in a consortium of less than five per cent will be exempted from all control. On the other hand, as regards the method, I want to stigmatize the violation of every rule with the hasty introduction of entire - clearly legal - bills without taking into account the debate that had taken place on them in the committees of merit. Finally, I would like to stress, reaffirming the contrary vote of my Group, that the House's most visible contribution to this measure was, unfortunately, the approval of an infinite and electoral set of micro-interventions, which represent a poor interpretation, I would say miserable, of what it means for a Member of Parliament to be interested in his own territory. But this issue - we know - is often spoken out of proportion these days. [[Applause from the Groups Art.1-MDP-LEU and Misto-SI-SEL-LEU, and Senator Laniece.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-922.ana.u60	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-922.ana.u61	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-922.ana.u62	BULGARRELLI (M5S). Mr President, I am very sorry that the Commander has left, because I wanted to take this opportunity... Come back, come back, Senator Bulgarelli. BULGARRELLI (M5S). So to do the surgery, I'll wait for the Commander to return? PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. The president will be back. You talk. I'm happy to listen to you and then I'll tell you everything. BULGARRELLI (M5S). I just wanted to take this opportunity to congratulate him for finally getting back on board. It seems to me that he has been on board a little late, the Commander, compared to everything that has happened in this House over the last few years. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator Bulgarelli, this has nothing to do with the budget law. So let's forget it. BULGARRELLI (M5S). But this is my explanation of vote and you will see that it has something to do with it. In fact, during the examination in this Chamber of the 2014 law of stability, which has to do with the budget law because the budget law is the old stability, the Commander said... PRESIDENT. Senator Bulgarelli, but it's like the last day of school. Stay on the deal. There's a president here. BULGARRELLI (M5S). Mr President, I have not offended anyone and I am just finishing a speech. But she said she was listening to me and she's not listening to me. By the way, he's been interrupting me all the time. I will lose the thread of the speech and when I have to make the considerations on the matter I will no longer remember what I have to say. PRESIDENT. - The debate is Look, if you keep doing this, I can take your word off. [[Comments from the M5S Group.]] BULGARRELLI (M5S). That would be the worthy conclusion of this parliamentary term. However, there have been two very serious events in this House over the past few years: two out of many. One is related to the 2014 Stability Act, which was serious, I would like to remind you, because there were no paragraphs and references. In this House it was said by the President that the law of stability would be voted without problems and would be rewritten later. The other very serious thing, in my opinion, was to apply the Rules of Procedure of the House to the Senate for the reform of the Constitution. Having said that, the real problem is that two years ago the accounting law was changed, which led to this new budget law. This accounting law seemed to be the solution to all the problems related to the budget holes, which still exist, despite this fashion of always saying that in the budget it is all right, that there is growth and that we are doing well. This accounting law, therefore, had to lead to the solution of all problems. Instead, I understand that no legislative change can lead to the solution of problems because there is always, unfortunately (or fortunately, but it depends on people), the personal discretion of those who then go to apply these laws, including the accounting law. Here too, an example of everyone. In this year's budget law, despite the fact that no rules can be made without financial effects, the House has been changed to the electoral law within the budget law, which is insane! [[Applause from the M5S Group]] Certainly, the electoral law does not have financial profiles, whereas, as my colleagues have already said, but I say this for the last time, the amendment on vitality, which was made inadmissible because it would not have financial effects, instead the financial effects had them. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] Therefore, it is not by changing the rules that the problems relating to budget holes are solved. Unfortunately, the problems are solved by changing the mental structure of the people who have the honour of putting their hands on the state budget. Those who go to manage the state budget must think about the good of the country and the good of the citizens. It must not turn this honour which it has here in this House into an opportunity to bring home votes. And this attitude in this House has been seen frequently. Budget law is often used only and only to bring home votes. And this last budget law, which arrives just before the election campaign, is the actual proof: 90% of this budget law was made only to bring home votes. And that's something I find shameful. Putting your hands on the state budget must be an honor and not an opportunity to make a career or to manage your life so that you can stay in this House. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] Of course, we will vote against this budget law, as we have always voted against the other budget laws. But the hope is that those who in the future will take this country - whoever it is - have at heart the good of the citizens, because you leave 50 million safeguard clauses to the whole country...
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-922.ana.u63	I wish it was only 50 million.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-922.ana.u64	BULGARRELLI (M5S). I'm finishing, Mr. President. I was saying, safeguard clauses on 2019, 2020 and 2021. This is a legacy that will be difficult to heal, because it is practically equivalent to a budget law per year only to clauses. I take this opportunity to wish all the best, but above all to thank those who have supported and followed us in these years, because it was really fundamental to have support both inside and outside to understand the mechanisms of parliamentary work and to be able to live within this absurd world. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-922.ana.u65	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-922.ana.u66	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-922.ana.u67	MANDELLI (FI-PdL XVII). Mr President, members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen, I believe that this last act, which we are about to discuss in this House today, is a bit the distinctive figure of these years of left-wing government, of a failed economic policy, made of debt (even this maneuver is made in debt), of a financial policy that leaves a country buried by the deficit, which will make it really difficult for those who come after, also thanks to the safeguard clauses of 50 billion that this Government leaves us. We are really convinced that, at this point, perhaps it will be the Italians who will not be happy, to mention what was once said by a Premier who passed by here. They have been particularly difficult five years, with an economic policy characterized by bonuses and tax and spending. This financial has been extorted in the House and not even the poor Deputy Ministry Morando has managed to bring it back to a normal embankment. Many years of announced but never adequately funded measures. Work is a subject that has passed more into the mouth of parliamentarians than in fact; work is not created by a law, but by helping businesses to do work. It has been five years in which we have witnessed the referendum disaster, and in which we have abolished the Provinces, but now we are going back to financing them, since 2019, in a consistent way to avoid once again depriving citizens of their right. Five years of a lot of demagogy that certainly did not serve to make the country grow; five years in which we lost the business train that fortunately had presented us, with Draghi who helped us, the price of oil that for so long was really low, the relationship with the dollar that helped us until we could Take advantage of it. But we have not been able to resume growth and we are taillights in a Europe that is going much faster than we are. A Europe in which we have not been able to have any influence over the past five years; policies of migrants who are often inconsistent; we have missed the great opportunity of EMA, despite the fact that we had the best dossier in Europe. So we have not been absolutely effective in all these years of politics that we have lived on the margin. Therefore, it is certainly a negative budget, and that is why Forza Italia, after these five years of coherent politics contrary to the economic policies of the Government, is serene to the voters, really serene, because it will be able to intercept the consent that President Berlusconi will be able to return to the electoral campaign. The centre-right has not been demolished for these five years, but it has found in consistency the strength to be born again and to propose now a real alternative to this disastrous Government and to the left. For this reason, Mr President, I would like to thank, on behalf of President Romani, all the people who have allowed us to do these years of parliamentary life, the offices and our collaborators. I announce not only the "no" to this confidence, but the "no" to these five disastrous years of the center-left government. [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-922.ana.u68	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-922.ana.u69	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-922.ana.u70	ZANONI (PD). Mr President, Senators and Senators, the draft law we are about to vote on is the final act of the budgetary cycle for the current year and the last maneuver of the current legislature. The measure fits fully in the wake of the interventions of economic policy and public finance adopted since the beginning of the legislature that allowed our country to emerge from a situation of serious economic and financial crisis, among the most serious recorded since the birth of the Republic, and to engage the phase of resumption in the international context. We are now faced with a completely different picture than that of the beginning of the legislature and in the conditions of looking to the future with good prospects of improving the conditions of economic and social well-being of citizens: many macroeconomic data recently disseminated by ISTAT illustrate this reversal of course. So it is not us who say that, but significant data present a country that was there before and one that is now, on gross domestic product, on the number of people employed, on final consumption, on investments, on exports. Similarly, the public finance framework presents a situation of strong improvement compared to the situation at the beginning of the parliamentary term. The public deficit is under control, the primary surplus is among the best recorded in the member countries of the European Union; the public debt, for the first time after several years of unstoppable growth, has reversed its path and in the coming years will return to a steady pace. Let's leave a country in order. Much remains to be done for sure, many problems have to be addressed (from poverty to work); however, despite the narrow path, the path taken is the right one and has already given results. We can be proud of this legislature, we can all be, majority and opposition. We have worked so hard, each in his own role, and we leave a country really different from what the Italians entrusted to us on March 15, 2013. It was also a great season of rights, which touched the lives of so many women and men. I am excited to have this last speech in this House and I thank Senator Zanda for giving me this privilege. I thank the PD, the majority groups and the Government for the result achieved in recent years and in particular for the closure of this budget not easy, but that secures public finance in a delicate period, as will be the first half of 2018. I have a wish: that the future of our country is light, we have tried to work in this direction. We can proudly vote for this confidence and I therefore declare the Democratic Party's vote in favour. [[Applause from the PD Group and Senator Palermo.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-922.ana.u71	I refer to the vote on Article 1 of the bill No 2960-B, in the text approved by the Chamber of Deputies, on which the Government raised the question of trust. I recall that pursuant to Rule 94, second paragraph, of the Constitution and pursuant to Rule 161, paragraph 1, of the Rules of Procedure, the vote on trust will take place by roll-call vote. Each senator called by the Senator Secretary will have to vote before the Presidency. The senators for trust will answer yes; the opposing senators will answer no; the senators who intend to abstain will speak accordingly. I now draw by lot the name of the senator from whom the roll call will begin. (The name of Senator Dalla Zuanna is drawn by lot.) I invite the Senator Secretary to proceed with the appeal, starting with Senator Dalla Zuanna. [[Comments.]] I remind everyone that after the vote of confidence there will be voting on the amendments and articles and also following the votes for the administrative judges, so it is not a great victory that Senator Dalla Zuanna. MAURO Giovanni, secretary, makes the appeal. (In the course of voting, the Presidency takes over - 11.20 a.m.) [[Senator Candiani exhibits a sign bearing the inscription "Happy Christmas."]] Senator Candiani, signs, even if they bear Christmas greetings, do not expose themselves. The senators answered: Aiello, Albano, Amati, Angioni, Anitori, Astorre Barani, Bencini, Bertuzzi, White, Bianconi, Bondi, Borioli, Broglia, Buemi Caleo, Cantini, Capacchione, Cardinals, Casini, Chiavaroli, Cirinna, Cocincich, Collina, Cucca D'Adda, Dalla Zuanna, D'Anna, D'Ascola, De Biasi, Del Barba, Della Vedova, Di Biagio, Di Giorgi Esposito Lucia, Esposito Stefano Fabbri, Falanga, Fasiolo, Fattorini, Favero, Fedeli, Ferrara Elena, Filippi, Ippin, Finocchi, Langella, Fisore, Fravezzi Gambaro, Gentile, Giacobbe, Giannini, Ginetti, Gualdani, Guerrieri, Ichino, Ichino, Idemarini, Icino, Idemnini, Icini, Ippi, Ippi, Filippino, Filippin, Fin, Fin, Fin, Fin, Fin, Fin, Fin, Lan, Lanchi, Lanchi, Lanchi, Lanchi, Lan, Lan, Lan, Lan, Lanzio, Lan, Lanzio, Lanzio, Lanzi, Lanzio The senators: Airola, Alicata, Amidei, Aracri, Arrigoni, Auricchio, Azzollini Barozzino, Battista, Bellot, Bernini, Bignami, Biinella, Blundo, Bocca, Boccardi, Bocchino, Bonfrisco, Bottici, Bubbico, Buccarella, Bulgarelli Calderoli, Caliendo, Bell, Candiani, Cappelletti, Carraro, Cassinelli, Ceroni, Cervellini, Ciampolillo, Cioffi, Comaroli, Compagna, Conti, Corsini, Crosio Davico, De Petris, Di Maggio, Dirindin, Donno Endrizzi Fasano, Fazzone, Ferrara Mario, Floris, Fornaro, Fucksia Gaetti, Gasparrò, Gatti, Gotor, Granaiola, Guerra Lo Moro, Lucidi Malanelli, Mandelli, Mangiolini, Mangiuro, Mario, Mario, Marinio, Flori, Flori, Flori, Fornaro, Fornaro, Maggioro, Maggioro, Maggioro, Maggioro, Maggiori, Maggio, Maggio, Maggioro I declare the vote closed and invite the Secretary Senators to proceed with the counting of votes. [[Secretary Senators proceed to count the vows. Brusio.]] Colleagues, I understand the exchanges of good wishes, but the House has its own dignity to maintain. I take advantage of this break to wish Senator Aldo Di Biagio, who, like me, turns his years today. [[Applause.]] I declare the result of the roll-call vote by appeal of Article 1 of bill No 2960-B, in the text approved by the Chamber of Deputies, on which the Government put the question of trust: [[Senators present 238 Senators voting 237 Majority 119 Favorables 140 Contrari 97]] The Senate approves. [[Applause from the PD, Mixed, AP-CpE-NCD and Aut groups (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT) - PSI-MAIE]] . All the amendments and agendas presented in Article 1 of the draft law are therefore not included. We proceed to the examination of the remaining articles of the bill. With the approval of the individual articles, the tables, the general frameworks, the annexes and the lists referred to by the articles themselves are also to be approved and are included in the draft law. We shall now proceed to the vote on Rule 2. MORONESE (M5S). We also call for votes to be taken by simultaneous ballot by electronic means for subsequent articles. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Rule 2. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the examination of Article 3, on which amendments have been tabled which are intended to be presented and on which I invite the representative of the Government to give its opinion.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-922.ana.u72	Mr President, I am against all the amendments.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-922.ana.u73	I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 3.Tab.2.1.5, tabled by Senator Lezzi and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of Amendment 3.Tab.2.2.5, tabled by Senator Mangili and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of Amendment 3.Tab.2.3.5, tabled by Senator Bulgarelli and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of Amendment 3.Tab.2.4.5, tabled by Senator Lezzi and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of Amendment 3.Tab.2.5.5, tabled by Senator Bulgarelli and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Rule 3. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Rule 4. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the examination of Article 5, on which an amendment has been tabled which has subsequently been withdrawn. I therefore refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous vote of Rule 5. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Rule 6. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Rule 7. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Rule 8. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). I would like to refer to the vote by a simultaneous vote on Rule 9. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the examination of Article 10, on which an amendment has been tabled which is intended to be presented and on which I invite the representative of the Government to give its opinion.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-922.ana.u74	Mr President, I am against Amendment 10.Tab.9.1.5.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-922.ana.u75	I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 10.Tab.9.1.5, tabled by Senator Moronese and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Rule 10. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the examination of Article 11, on which an amendment has been tabled which is intended to be presented and on which I invite the representative of the Government to give its opinion.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-922.ana.u76	Mr President, I am against Amendment No 11.Tab.10.1.5.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-922.ana.u77	I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 11.Tab.10.1.5, tabled by Senator Lezzi and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Rule 11. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Rule 12. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Rule 13. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Rule 14. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Rule 15. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Rule 16. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Rule 17. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Rule 18. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). Rule 19 will not be put to the vote as it is not amended by the House of Deputies. Pursuant to Rule 120 (3) of the Rules of Procedure, I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot by electronic procedure of the bill n. 2960-B, as a whole. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (see Annex B). Before moving on to another point, I would like to take the opportunity to address my sincere and affectionate thanks to all the Presidents of the Groups, to the Vice Presidents who helped me, to the Quaestors, to the Secretary Senators, to the entire Presidency Council and, together with them, to all the senators for life and all the senators. I would also like to thank the Secretary-General, Dr. Serafin, the Deputy Secretaries-General and all the employees who helped me to carry out my role as President. [[Applause]] I would also have liked to greet all the employees with a single ceremony precisely because it was the end of the legislature, but the hectic parliamentary work of the last few days did not allow me to do so at a specific time as I would have liked, so I extend a greeting to all the employees in a particular way. [[Applause. The Assembly stands]] A greeting also to the members of the Government who are present here and who have collaborated in our function. [[Applause]] During the applause I greeted the members of the government, perhaps it was not perceived. BONFRISCO (FL (Id-PL, PLI)). We heard him. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Give it up to the members of the government. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-922.ana.u78	The next item is the vote on the election of two members of the Administrative Justice, Court of Auditors and Tax Justice Councils.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-922.ana.u79	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-922.ana.u80	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-922.ana.u81	MORONESE (M5S). Mr President, I am speaking on the agenda, in particular on this item on the agenda, concerning the election of the members of the Administrative Justice Council, the Court of Auditors and tax justice. I am even more convinced that this same vote in the House of Deputies was not taken yesterday, as was expected. It was not done because there was no sharing on the lists, as it should be, neither between the parliamentary groups, nor between the House and the Senate. Well, Mr President, we consider these fundamental bodies particularly because they are particularly close to the citizens. I therefore ask you to block, stop the political militarization on these appointments, because we cannot allow the parties to divide their seats at the end of the parliamentary term by assigning them to professional politicians, militarizing these roles and not allowing them to be subject to high competence and professionalism. [[Applause from the M5S Group and Senator Candiani]] These are, of course, delicate self-government bodies of specialised magistrates. A subjective profile of well-known independence, moral authority, impartiality and high competence is therefore essential. Drawing from the political basin seems completely inconvenient, gravely inappropriate and risks, moreover, undermining the functionality and legitimacy of the aforementioned bodies. It is necessary to respect the formal and substantive sense of the rules governing the election of these Presidency Councils and it is therefore aberrant to turn them into golden parking spaces for Members of Parliament who are due to expire. We have adopted a method and it is that we have identified the best profiles, suitable for these roles, and we have not sought them either within our ranks, within our political basin, or even less in that of our electorate. On the other hand, we have sought them among the best professionals, high profile personalities and autonomy, with proven experience and party and political independence. [[Comments from the PD Group]] I shall conclude, Mr President. Colleagues! PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Talk to the Assembly, not the people in particular. MORONESE (M5S). Mr President, over the past five years I have personally shown respect for everyone and as a Parent Company, I ask the good education of my colleagues to let me finish this speech. Mr President, I believe that your authoritative intervention would be appropriate, even in the light of what you yourself have said several times in this House and outside this House because of your institutional function as guarantor. Rather than this disaster, it would at least be appropriate to postpone the vote only in the presence of dignified lists, with persons fit for roles, with profiles fully responding to the very delicate tasks to be performed and certainly in the presence of a full sharing by all the Groups that are not there at the moment. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-922.ana.u82	Senator Moronese, as it seems obvious to me, I have no power to block a vote just because the other House did not do it, because we have done so many things that the other House has failed to do and this cannot stop us at all, so this cannot be a reason. [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII.]] The second thing I want to say to you is that you can express your disagreement about the merits of the people who have been reported, but democracy teaches us that this dissent is expressed by the vote and so we move on to the vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-922.ana.u83	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-922.ana.u84	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-922.ana.u85	DE PETRIS (Misto-SI-SEL-LEU). Mr President, Senator Pegorer, yesterday, had also asked politely (although we know that it is not foreseen), the possibility of having us, too, who have not been part of this agreement on names (like all my fellow senators), knowledge of the facts, because, in order to decide, as you mentioned today, we need to know. We know two colleagues, who are present here at the Senate, who are Senator Susta and Senator Falanga, but it is not said that we have a notion and knowledge of others. Until the last, at today's meeting of group leaders, as you know, Mr President, we asked whether the list was prepared or not for the responsibility of the majority and who had the opportunity to include these names, perhaps in exchange for something else or for the vote before. It wasn't possible. Frankly, in this way we cannot agree, but it is not enough just to vote no: as far as we are concerned, we will not be taking part in this vote. [[Applause from the Misso-SI-SEL-Leu Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-922.ana.u86	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-922.ana.u87	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-922.ana.u88	WAR (Art. 1-MDP-LEU). Mr President, I would like to announce that my Group will not participate in the vote either, because the division between groups that emerges from this set of names that has been given to us in camera caritatis shows that there has been an agreement between groups that have the numbers to support their own proposal, on which we have not had the opportunity to make any prior agreement or comparison and we look forward to doing so at the time of the vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-922.ana.u89	The Presidency takes note of this. We proceed to the vote for the election of two members of the Board of President of Administrative Justice, pursuant to Article 7 (1) (d) of Law No 186 of 27 April 1982. This vote will take place by secret ballot, pursuant to Rule 25 (3) of the Rules of Procedure, on the following list drawn up on the basis of the nominations received by the Groups: - Professor Saverio Ruperto - lawyer Gianluca Susta. I would remind you that, according to the above provision of law, the two candidates will be declared elected if the list gets an absolute majority of the votes of the members of the Assembly, i.e. 161 votes. The senators in favour of the proposed list will vote yes; the opposing senators will vote no; the senators who wish to abstain will act accordingly. I declare the vote open by secret ballot, by electronic procedure. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). [[Applause from the M5S Group. Bursium]] These were the numbers. Of course, a quorum of 161 was not reached. We proceed to the vote for the election of two members of the Board of President of the Court of Auditors, pursuant to Article 7 (1) (d), of Law No 186 of 27 April 1982, and Article 18 (3) of Law No 205 of 21 July 2000. This vote will take place by secret ballot, pursuant to Rule 25 (3) of the Rules of Procedure, on the following list drawn up on the basis of the nominations received by the Groups: - lawyer Ciro Falanga - professor Maurizio Leo. I would remind you that, according to the aforementioned legal provisions, the two candidates will be declared elected if the list put to the vote will obtain an absolute majority of the votes of the members of the Assembly, i.e. 161 votes. The senators in favour of the proposed list will vote yes; the opposing senators will vote no; the senators who wish to abstain will act accordingly. I declare the vote open by secret ballot, by electronic procedure. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). We proceed to the vote for the election of two members of the Board of President of Tax Justice, pursuant to Article 17 (2) of Legislative Decree No 545 of 31 December 1992. This vote will take place by secret ballot, pursuant to Rule 25 (3) of the Rules of Procedure, on the following list drawn up on the basis of the nominations received by the Groups: - Professor Antonio Carullo - lawyer Gianfranco Schietroma. I would remind you that, under the above-mentioned rule of law, the two candidates will be elected if the list put to the vote gets an absolute majority of the votes of the members of the Assembly, i.e. 161 votes. The senators in favour of the proposed list will vote yes; the opposing senators will vote no; the senators who wish to abstain will act accordingly. I declare open the vote by secret ballot by electronic procedure. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B).
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-922.ana.u90	The next item is the debate on document XVI, No 2. The Junta resolved to propose to the Assembly to raise a conflict of powers between the powers of the State, pursuant to Article 134 of the Constitution. The Assembly's report on parliamentary elections and immunities has already been printed and distributed. I would ask the rapporteur whether he intends to supplement it.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-922.ana.u91	Mr President, I reserve the right to hand over the text of the report which, as you have said, calls for the conflict of attribution between the powers of the State, because it must be made clear whether or not the exercise of the legislative function is legally enforceable, since in this case it is a procedure in which corruption is contested for the submission and support of an amendment. It is clear that, as the Constitutional Court says, we are at the heart of the parliamentary function; we are at the hub of the relationship between politics, legislative power and judicial power on the point of clarifying the limits of the autonomy of the Chambers and parliamentarians, autonomy enshrined in the first paragraph of Article 68, Article 64 and Article 72 of the Constitution.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-922.ana.u92	By letter dated today, Senator Giuseppe Compagnone resigned as Senator in connection with his election to the Sicilian Regional Assembly. As a case of incompatibility within the meaning of Article 122 of the Constitution, the Senate can only take note of this. The Assembly of Parliamentary Elections and Immunities is hereby authorised to convene to determine the successor Senator.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-922.ana.u93	As you are not included in the debate, we shall proceed to the vote on the proposal of the Assembly for elections and parliamentary immunity. GAETTI (M5S). We call for the vote to be taken by simultaneous ballot by electronic means. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I refer to the nominal vote by simultaneous ballot of the Junta's proposal for parliamentary elections and immunities to promote conflict of attribution between the powers of the State before the Constitutional Court, with regard to the acts carried out in the context of the criminal proceedings pending in the court of Verona also against Senator Bonfrisco. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). [[Applause.]] The Presidency therefore intends to give a mandate to one or more lawyers in the free forum.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-922.ana.u94	The next item is the continuation of the debate on draft law Nos. 2092, already approved by the Chamber of Deputies in a text resulting from the unification of a bill of popular initiative and the own-initiative drafts of the Members of Parliament Di Lello and others; Vendola and others; Bressa; Bressa; Pes and others; Zampa; Caparini and others; Bersani and others; Vaccaro; Marazziti and others; Faith and others; The Make and others; Caruso and others; Gozi; Bueno and others; Caruso and others; Porta and others; Polverini; Sorial and others; Merlon and Borghese; Centemero; Bianconi; Bianchi Dorina; Fitzgerald Nissoli and others; Fabbri and others, 17, 202, 255, 271, 330, 604, 927, 967 and 2394. I would remind you that the President of the First Permanent Commission, Senator Torrisi, spoke at his meeting on 15 June to report on the Commission's work.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-922.ana.u95	Mr President, I would like to ask you to wait for this House to be reordered.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-922.ana.u96	I would ask you once again, ladies and gentlemen, to exchange your best wishes outside the Chamber, so that we give the opportunity to those who remain to work.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-922.ana.u97	Senator Candiani, you can talk. CANDIANI (LN-Aut). Mr President, you also understand that you cannot even argue with this chaos. [[Comments from PD and Art.1-MDP-LEU Groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-922.ana.u98	You try for a moment; there is usually even more background noise.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-922.ana.u99	CANDIANI (LN-Aut). Without a doubt, I understand that this is a subject that you particularly care about. A written text has been submitted, to which I refer, which sets out the question referred for a preliminary ruling which we are asking for to be put to the vote. PRESIDENT. - The debate is He asked Senator Calderoli to explain the question referred for a preliminary ruling QP2. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-922.ana.u100	Mr President, I am starting from an article I found today on "The Messenger," with the words: "Ius soli, well stop, the country is already torn." The Vatican Secretary of State: controversial law, a broad consensus is needed. While in Pratica di Mare the first 160 migrants from Libya landed with a military flight thanks to the understanding between Italy, UN and CEI that allowed for the first time a Libyan humanitarian corridor to Europe, and while in Parliament echoed the last burning appeals pro ius soli, Cardinal Pietro Parolin, at the CEIS for Christmas Mass (...), commented with a good dose of concreteness on the stop of one of the most dear laws in the Catholic world. Disappointed? It was thought to have been approved but there were too many negative reactions. It has appeared as a controversial law giving rise to different answers from many sectors of public opinion and people. In the face of such a picture it is necessary to have the time to mature, to convince, so that the next step can be done but with the greatest possible consensus. "I think it's best that these things have the time space to mature at the level of consciousness and mentality, so that they are not a source of conflict and tearing within the country." Mr President, everyone will realize that today is December 23rd, that the Chambers will be dissolved on December 28th and that there is no time to consider such a measure. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group and Senator Rizzotti]] To me it puzzles the play of the one who holds the match and eventually burns, because we should never have been at this time discussing such a topic. Otherwise, it really becomes a mockery and the words of Monsignor Parolin seem to me to say exactly the opposite. We all know that the measure will never go through, because I have tabled 50,000 amendments and I have not heard any requests for trust from the Government, nor have I heard any authorization for trust. Therefore, that the left with respect to the extreme left, with respect to the left in the middle they compete to unload each other's responsibility, for me is a sign of irresponsibility because right or wrong is this law, it involves a mountain of people. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group and Senator Rizzotti.]] That you do it using it as an electoral campaign tool, it's simply a shame. ( [[Comments of the Senators Ferrara and Mirabelli]] Therefore, before we proceed to the vote, I would ask you to check the presence of the quorum.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-922.ana.u101	Pursuant to Rule 93 of the Rules of Procedure, a single debate will take place on the questions referred for a preliminary ruling, in which one representative per Group may speak for no more than ten minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-922.ana.u102	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-922.ana.u103	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-922.ana.u104	MALAN (FI-PdL XVII). Mr President, I am voting in favour of the question referred by the FI-PdL XVII for a preliminary ruling.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-922.ana.u105	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-922.ana.u106	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-922.ana.u107	DE PETRIS (Misto-SI-SEL-LEU). Mr President, of course we shall vote against the two questions for a preliminary ruling, but I am obliged to recall the third last meeting of the Conference of Leaders and the vote that took place here, in this House, in which we made the last desperate attempt to include the citizenship bill on the agenda before the draft budget law. All of you will recall the intervention of the Democratic Party's Parent Company, which reminded us that the examination of the measure would take place after the adoption of the draft budget law. We have called all this a bad page, a hypocrisy on the skin of so many boys and girls, of about a million people, men, women and children who were waiting for this law. They then attended the debate in the gallery and I believe that everyone understood perfectly what had been consumed on their skin. We have arrived now and I hope that at least we have the chance and the good taste to stay, as we will do, to try to deal with this issue. This bill had to be dealt with more than a year ago: we would have approved it. He didn't want to. There was a clear desire not to do so, not because there were no numbers or time, but because it was inconvenient from the electoral point of view. We really say this with great regret, because - I repeat - a petty, hypocritical and ugly operation has taken place on this matter, which will have consequences, because the consequences already exist, in our country. It is regrettable that my last speech in this House must be aimed at stigmatizing, once again, the fact that a bad game has been put in place, a heavy game on the citizenship bill. [[Applause from the Mixed-SI-SEL-LEU and Art.1-MDP-LEU Groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-922.ana.u108	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-922.ana.u109	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-922.ana.u110	WAR (Art. 1-MDP-LEU). Mr President, I am speaking only to send back to the sender the unjustified accusations of Senator Calderoli regarding my Group. Since this Group was set up, it has called for the argument of ius soli to be calendarized regardless of the obstructionism action that has been carried out. We would have been and are still prepared to vote on 50 000 amendments, because we do not accept that a Group can block a law with 50 000 amendments. This is a general principle that applies to all laws, all the more so for a provision and which we hold so much. [[Applause from the Groups Art.1-MDP-LEU and Misto-SI-SEL-LEU and Senator Puppato.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-922.ana.u111	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-922.ana.u112	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-922.ana.u113	Ms Bisinella (Nci). Mr President, on behalf of the Noi Group with Italy, we announce the vote in favour of the preliminary ruling and we also express the embarrassment that, on the last day of the sitting of this Senate, at a very delicate time, this measure should be brought to the Chamber. We know very well that there have been no conditions to do this before, because of the great splits within the Left Groups and I think that really is not the time for the country, because this measure will certainly create strong social tensions. I call on the Left Groups to present the issue as the first point of their electoral campaign programme, and therefore to ask all Italian citizens to vote on this bill. On behalf of my fellow Members, Mr Bellot and Mr Munerato, I would also ask that we be able to sign the Calderoli amendments, remembering that we too have tabled amendments in the first Commission, which are not obstructive, but also intervene in this area with the aim of improving a text which has very sensitive aspects - we know - of the text.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-922.ana.u114	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-922.ana.u115	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-922.ana.u116	Mr Manconi (PD). Mr President, Senators and Senators, I find it very interesting, but also a bizarre thread, that Senator Calderoli's intervention in favour of the preliminary constitutionality was entirely conditioned by a bluntly clerical approach, which made reference to the considerations of a highly authoritative and significant voice of the Catholic hierarchies, a voice that is certainly not the one that must organize, determine and orientate the debate in the Senate House of the Republic. A kind of competitive consideration was added to this straightforwardly clerical approach, according to the paradigm of the Greek-Roman struggle, which refers to those 50,000 amendments, brandished as an improper weapon. Well, I think this approach is really profoundly wrong. We are in the presence of a very large issue which, quite rightly, many people consider to be treated with guilty delay because of the mistakes made by many political parties, including the one to which I belong. However, we must not forget the merit of the matter. What dominates in the current legislation on citizenship is the so-called ius sanguinis, which is an approach that, as those who have studied this subject know, suffers from an elementary, primitive culture, I would say barbaric, founded precisely on the ius sanguinis and, therefore, on the idea of a closed, self-referential enclave, fatally destined to an inevitable exhaustion and drying up. On the contrary, ius soli is an integral part of our legal civilization. [[Senator Caliendo's comments.]] It is a consequence of a culture and a tradition that has its foundations in Greek and Latin tradition and which is based, at the opposite of ius sanguinis, on an idea of citizenship constituted around social cohesion, the sharing of rights and duties, the depth of social bond, reciprocity, that is, an idea entirely evolutionary linked, precisely, to the growth of contemporary law. We have, in front of us, this clear contrast between two approaches: a ius sanguinis of origin and deeply premodern connotations and a ius soli that corresponds to the needs, to the profound transformations, to the wills of those who are the current changes at world level and in our area. Since we have a short time, I will stop here and ask you to vote against this preliminary constitutionality. I would also ask for permission to be able to deliver a written text to supplement what I have just said. [[Applause from the PD Group and Art. 1-MDP-LEU]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-922.ana.u117	The Presidency shall authorise it accordingly.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-922.ana.u118	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-922.ana.u119	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-922.ana.u120	Mr Russo (PD). Mr President, I rise to take a small step back to the vote before the debate we are holding. I would also ask, in the light of a precedent, which I have seen in 2005, to consider, at a forthcoming sitting, the repetition of the vote we have just held on the members of the Presidency Councils. This is also in the light of the fact that some Members who claim to have voted on the records of the records have failed to vote. I would ask that, at the first opportunity, we proceed again to the vote which has already been expressed.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-922.ana.u121	Senator Russo, the Presidency will consult the Leaders on this and we will consider it at the next opportunity.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-922.ana.u122	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-922.ana.u123	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-922.ana.u124	BUEMI (Aut (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT)-PSI-MAIE). Mr President, I rise to vote against the question of constitutionality and to support the position of the Socialists present in this House on the desire to implement the amendment of the law on citizenship, which is not an automatic recognition of the right of citizenship, but is a fair and legitimate path to give to those born and living in Italy, minors and adults, greater certainty than a need to recognize their belonging to this community, which is not only a community of blood, but is a community of commitment, culture, involvement and also of civic contribution to the country's activity. Today we remedy an injustice that has remained in our country for too many years. This is not about mixing goats and cabbages: immigration, dangers and terrorism. All this equipment, frankly, is poorly democratic and rational compared to a problem that must be welcomed into our community these citizens, who are born, who are immigrants in Italy and who make their contribution to this country. I therefore express my desire to continue with the vote on the content of this draft law. [[Applause from the Aut Groups (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT) - PSI-MAIE and PD.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-922.ana.u125	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-922.ana.u126	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-922.ana.u127	CASINI (AP-CpE-NCD). Mr President, on a matter of conscience, I would also like to leave it to the Senate to say that - I said this the first time fifteen years ago, as President of the House - I am in favour of this measure and will vote against the constitutional prejudices. [[Applause from the PD and AP-CpE-NCD Groups]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-922.ana.u128	We shall now proceed to the vote on the question referred for a preliminary ruling.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-922.ana.u129	I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request for verification of the quorum is supported by the prescribed number of senators, by electronic procedure. (The request is supported). I therefore call on the senators to make their presence known by electronic means. (Follows the quorum check.) The Senate is not a quorum. The quorum required was 149 senators, but attendance was 116. Since the difference is not easy to fill, please note the circumstances, I refer the continuation of the discussion of the drafts of law to another sitting.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-922.ana.u130	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-922.ana.u131	You have the right to do so. (Brusio). BOTTICS (M5S). Mr President, I would like to take a moment to listen.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-922.ana.u132	[[Brusio]] Sorry, ladies and gentlemen, then I will also wish you a merry Christmas, but first I would like your attention for a moment. This morning Fiesoli was arrested, that is that subject I told you about, the one who brought Il Forteto and the Tuscan system to all the newspapers. [[Applause from the M5S Group and Senator Di Giorgi]] This is the last session, sometimes Christmas comes and I really wish the victims of the Forteto a peaceful Christmas. I'm gonna miss the legislative work and I'm gonna miss the senators less. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-922.ana.u133	The motions, questions and questions received by the Presidency will be published in Annex B to today's report.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-922.ana.u134	The Senate will meet again in public session on Tuesday 9 January 2018, at 5 p.m., with the following agenda: (See agenda) The sitting was closed at 13.04 a.m.
