ParlaMint-IT_2017-07-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-865.ana.u1	The sitting was opened at 16.34 p.m. The Minutes shall be read. Mr Pegorer, Secretary, read the Minutes of the afternoon sitting on 18 July. PRESIDENT. - The debate is Since there were no comments, the Minutes were approved.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-07-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-865.ana.u2	The list of senators on leave and absent on assignment received from the Senate, as well as further communications to the Assembly, will be published in Annex B to today's Minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-07-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-865.ana.u3	I would warn you that qualified votes can be taken in the course of today's sitting by electronic means. Therefore, from this moment the period of 20 minutes from the notice provided for in Article 119, paragraph 1, of the Regulation (at 16,38 hours) begins.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-07-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-865.ana.u4	The next item is the debate on draft law No 2860. The speakers, Senators Vicari and Tomaselli, asked for permission to carry out the oral report. No comments were made and the request was accepted. I therefore call the rapporteur, Senator Vicari.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-07-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-865.ana.u5	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I will speak, together with the co-rapporteur, Mr Tomaselli, on the decree-law before us, which is a complex, awaited and decisive measure for so many issues connected with the Mezzogiorno which have emerged in recent months. I will try to illustrate the decree-law as a whole and part of its structure. It is a measure that is coming to this House today and that over the last month has committed the Budget Commission, for which I thank President Tonini and all the members, in a rather complex work. [[Brusio]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-07-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-865.ana.u6	Sorry, but you can't hear anything. Let's try to be silent and listen. It's an important decree-law.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-07-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-865.ana.u7	Mr Vicari, rapporteur. As I said, it was a complex and challenging work that tried to take into account, at the highest level, the issues posed by Members of Parliament in the approximately 800 amendments tabled. The Commissions and the two rapporteurs examined the article text by article, amendment by amendment, precisely in order to try to bring to the debate of the Assembly a text reinforced with respect to the initial objectives of the decree-law. This is a measure that has the ambition to revive the economy of the Mezzogiorno and significantly reduce the deep and sedimented gap between North and South of our country, all with measures aimed at strengthening and consolidating growth and discouraging the sad phenomenon of emigration to the North of the workforce, with a particular focus on young people. It is no coincidence that Article 1 already introduces the measure, which we all know now, called "Resto al Sud" (Resto al Sud). This is the opportunity for young people under 35 to start entrepreneurial activity in the Mezzogiorno regions on particularly advantageous terms, i.e. with funding that has been extended, thanks to work in the Commission, to a maximum of EUR 50 000 for each applicant, with a loss-making share of 35% and the remaining 65% through a zero-rate loan to be repaid in eight years. Another important change was the extension of the applicability of the same measure to tourism, fisheries and aquaculture. Investing in tourism - a sector that is worth 4.2% of GDP for our country as a whole - is, from our point of view, the right and correct way to relaunch the South, create jobs and new prospects for young people and offer an opportunity to those who today remain on the margins of employment, deciding to invest, where there are conditions, on the individual capacities and on the qualities of young people for the revival of the territory, making the problems of their land that has great potential, an opportunity for personal growth, development of the territory and employment, for themselves and for other young people. Articles 4 and 5 introduce, for the Regions of the Mezzogiorno, the establishment of the Special Economic Zones (SEZs), i.e. the areas where companies already established or which will settle will enjoy administrative-bureaucratic and fiscal simplifications, including certainly the tax credit for the purchase of new capital goods, up to a maximum of 50 million euros. Companies will have to maintain their activities in the Special Economic Zones for at least seven years - and no longer for five years, as originally provided for in the Decree-Law - after the completion of the investment being facilitated. The aim of the ZES is in fact to create favorable conditions in economic, financial and administrative terms, that they allow the development of the enterprises and will be concentrated in the harbour areas connected to the trans-European network of the transports (the so-called TEN-T network) and in the areas also not territorially adjacent, that they have an economic-functional connection with the latter. [[Brusio. Call the president back.]] Thanks to the work carried out in the Commission, the regions concerned have been given the opportunity to submit one or at most two proposals for the establishment of ZES, when there are several port areas connected to the trans-European transport network. Regarding instead the Regions that do not have such harbour areas it will be possible to present application in associative form, if contiguous, or in association with a harbour area that has the previewed characteristics. The ZES will be activated at the request of the southern regions concerned, after appropriate development project, and the latter will be fully involved in their process of establishment and governance. The various experiences of ZES will be put into place, with a view to strategic development, through the overall coordination guaranteed at central level by the Presidency of the Council of Ministers. In Article 12, amendments have been approved by the Commission to find the right balance in the criteria for allocating the State University Fund: in this way, the principles of merit and virtuous cases are maintained and, at the same time, the protection needs of the Southern universities operating in disadvantaged economic and social contexts are taken into account. In Article 14, a further two-month extension of the deadlines for the delivery of capital goods functional to the digitisation processes of the Industry Plan 4.0 was added. The new deadline is 30 September 2017. This measure constitutes an opportunity that has not been lost in this moment of great emergency for our country for the devastating fires that are affecting the North - you have heard the latest statements of the Government - but in particular the South of Italy. With an amendment of the Government, in fact, it was provided for in article 423- bis of the penal code, without prejudice to the penalties in force in the matter of arson, that, in the case in which the owner burns for any reason its own land, the latter will be the subject of confiscation for the benefit of the Municipality in which the land is located. Furthermore, the news report states that if the owner of the burned land has been extorted by the violence or the threat of commission of the crime of arson, the fired land may have, always in compliance with the instruments and provisions in force in the field of urban and building, also a different destination of use. These are effective measures to combat a serious and rampant crime in practice. A further measure introduced in the measure concerns the strengthening of the security of historic centers - it is an absolute novelty that was being worked on in recent months after the massacre in Nice, of which in these hours it is the first anniversary - to protect from possible terrorist attacks our cities, starting from Palermo, capital of Italian culture for 2018 and Matera, capital of European culture for 2019. [[Brusio.]] I beg your pardon for the rascals, but with the noise it's difficult.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-07-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-865.ana.u8	You don't actually feel anything. There's a continuous rumble. I think today is worse than usual. Try to speak in a lower voice. For important conversations, we can go outside.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-07-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-865.ana.u9	Mr Vicari, rapporteur. In this regard, I insist on pointing out this initiative introduced in the decree on the Mezzogiorno. I thank the Government and Minister De Vincenti for welcoming you. What happened in Nice and not only with massacres carried out with the entry of heavy vehicles without a minimum of traceability and preventive control is a threat that all of us, especially in our country, in the South and in the cities of Palermo and Matera, recognized respectively at Italian and European level as capitals of culture, wanted to prevent in order not to pursue events that sadly can happen. In this case it is previewed the realization of an automatic system for the holding of the flows of goods going into the historical centers, consisting to realize an ulterior module of the existing national logistic platform digital in our Country, able to create a virtual fence based on a system of accreditations for all the heavy vehicles coming out and going into the historical center. Moreover, this system would also be useful in decongestantizing the historic centers of our cities from the siege of commercial vehicles. It will be possible to enter the historic centers of the cities of Palermo and Matera only if these means will be constantly and promptly monitored and controlled by our digital platform. The relaunch of investment has focused in particular on development drivers, which are priority intervention guidelines, engines that can make the South an opportunity for development for Italy as a whole. The legislative decree under consideration contains a series of useful, important interventions, which, in my opinion and in our opinion, are also improcrastinable, which aim to achieve this goal: to get the South back to breathe requires an industrial policy capable of supporting youth employment, but also, and above all, technological development. We completed our work in the Commission a few minutes ago and you will see how many very useful contributions have come from various parts of the country, from all political forces, also on the local authorities, the Provinces and the Abruzzo earthquake. In this respect, important new initiatives have been introduced not only with the extension of the instruments, but also with the introduction of additional benefits. For the South, in particular, a measure was approved, on a proposal from the rapporteurs, aimed at allocating 90 million to the restructuring and security of the courts of the South. In conclusion, with respect to the fact that someone can claim that this is a measure intended for one part of our country rather than another, I object that not a few times we have spent, even politically, saying that Italy will be able to express itself only when the South succeeds in anchoring the same speed of the North. The measure under discussion, therefore, has tried to tackle convincingly all the problems that make the Mezzogiorno lagging behind other parts of the country, identifying new tools that are now available. I am also certain that in the next twenty-four months, i.e. in the time necessary to implement all the planned measures, a concrete response can be given with a 180 degree inversion to a still too low rate of growth with reference to the fastest regions in the North, which undoubtedly have had greater opportunities. I shall conclude by leaving to the rapporteur Mr Tomaselli the completion of the other parts that must be brought to the attention of the House, thanking again all the members of the Commission, President Tonini, but above all the Government in the person of Minister De Vincenti, who has worked patiently with us and has tried to accept everything that was bearable for our coffers even from a financial point of view. [[Applause from the AP-CpE-NCD Group and the Senators Tomaselli and Lai]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-07-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-865.ana.u10	I call the rapporteur, Senator Tomaselli.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-07-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-865.ana.u11	Madam President, representatives of the Government, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to begin by reminding you that we are going to examine and vote - I hope in the next few hours - on the second decree-law on the Mezzogiorno launched by the Government Gentiloni Silveri in just eight months. I wonder what a government policy and action are, if not a set of measures and interventions within a vision. The concreteness of the measure that we are going to examine corresponds to another significant piece of a renewed policy for the Mezzogiorno that this Government, the Government Gentiloni Silveri, has intended to consolidate, in continuity with the measures initiated in the past years by the Renzi Government. A policy for the Mezzogiorno that has taken shape in the last two years, finally trying to put the finalization of Community and national public resources into a system, resources that have actually - let us be honest - never been lacking, but that have often, in the years and in the decent past, experienced dispersive and little incisive gestures. And then again, alongside an organic finalization of these resources, in these years finally a unified governance has been put in place and at the same time integrated between national government, regions and local communities. Moreover, this philosophy was matched by the so-called masterplan, which was accompanied at the beginning, when it was presented, by not a few mistrusts and hostility, but which later gave rise, in this last year and a half, to the so-called pacts for the South, signed by all the eight southern regions and by all the seven metropolitan cities of the Mezzogiorno, to which Taranto was added, with the institutional contract of development. It was a very simple job, which involved regions and local communities in the identification of priorities in the field of infrastructure interventions, as well as of an industrial and social character, that will activate to regime approximately 90 billion resources in the next six years and that already to date has activated - certainly the minister De Vincenti will be more precise - about 700 yards, for approximately 7 billion euros of investments. This is a demanding job, which Minister Claudio De Vincenti has coordinated with extraordinary generosity and with great commitment. I would therefore like to thank him for this work, as well as for the joint work that we have done together in these days and weeks, as Mrs Vicari recalled, also finding a more advanced synthesis than the text with which the decree-law reached the Chambers. A willingness through which we have been able to work, cooperate and share; an effort to further strengthen the measures that qualify the measure for our examination. Another piece of this renewed policy that makes attention to that part of the country a priority issue for the entire Government and for the entire country. The work done in the Commission - thanks to my colleague Simona Vicari and Minister De Vincenti - has led us to examine more than 800 amendments and to approve more than 100 of them from all groups, both by majority and by opposition. There is also in this number the sense of a certain hard work, but - if I may say so - also concrete, passionate, of merit, without prejudices, which really enriched this measure, with the contribution of everyone. It is in this context, therefore, that a measure such as the one we are examining must be placed, which has dealt with some specific emergencies and priorities, but above all it has provided for a series of measures aimed at promoting the economic and employment growth of the Mezzogiorno, starting with the measure "I remain in the South" - said Senator Vicari - of which I will remember only one aspect. There is a great desire on the part of the young people of the Mezzogiorno to put themselves at stake, not only to remain in that part of the country, but to show that in the Mezzogiorno, from which so many of us come, there are passion, enterprise, culture, spirit of initiative and undertaken, that they certainly need a more favorable environment. I am thinking not only of an infrastructural, cultural and social environment, of a climate, but also of an ancient and modern theme at the same time, which is that of the serenity with which we are doing business in the Mezzogiorno of Italy (and unfortunately not only there), that is the theme of the fight against illegality and widespread crime. I believe that to this extent there is the bet of all this and not just 1.3 billion to support 100,000 new enterprises in the Mezzogiorno; funding for young people from eighteen to thirty-five years old, in the strategic sectors for the Mezzogiorno which Mrs Vicari called for and which we have expanded in the work of the Commission. Not only craftsmanship and industry, manufacturing, but also fishing, aquaculture, tourism and services. There is this bet, if I may say so: to show that in that part of the country there are so many good and healthy energies that you want to put into play with this measure, but certainly alongside other interventions. We have strengthened the content and scope of this measure. We have also provided - I believe it was an amendment by Mr Lai, - the possibility for the regions to co-finance these measures and these interventions where national resources were not enough. We have believed so much that we also commit the Regions to making their contribution. It is a measure that then extends to the world of agriculture and fisheries, as we have recalled, in a mix of experiments of new forms of use of opportunities that come from this extraordinary world that is agriculture, agro-food. There is a strong link with another bet, that of the recovery of uncultivated land and of abandoned and abandoned buildings that, with a direction at the head of the local authorities, can be a kind of bank to draw on to experiment with new ways of doing business. The second measure that I would like to recall - Mrs Vicari has already mentioned this - which seems to me to be the second most significant bet of this measure, is the establishment of the so-called special economic zones: one of the most important measures of this measure. These are the establishment of geographically delimited areas, within which companies which establish favourable conditions in economic terms, taxation, simplification of procedures and administrative facilities are recognised. According to what we have previewed in the articulated, the ZES will concentrate in the harbour areas and the areas to them economically connected, to which will be reserved additional tax concessions regarding the ordinary regime of the tax credit for the Mezzogiorno, besides the simplification of fulfillments and the acceleration of the procedural terms and for the access to the existing infrastructures. Of the special economic zones we, in this measure, finally give a legal definition, a outline of rules that will probably also evolve in the years to come; we provide a regulatory framework to draw together with the Regions, therefore in agreement with the territories, to delimit their entity. The aim is to experiment in our Country modalities of attraction of some areas connected to the portualità that well have worked in other Countries in Europe and in the world, with a mix of fiscal credits, of tax facilitations and of procedural simplifications. We also made another choice in comparison with the parliamentary groups and the government, in particular with Minister De Vincenti himself. For several years, the theme of the Special Economic Zones has been passionate about politics and also the academy, the study centers, starting with the Svimez, which have been very concerned about the usefulness of this instrumentation to consolidate the potential and put them in place in the Mezzogiorno of Italy. In those studies, in those researches and also in some political positions there was the idea that two, three areas scattered in the Mezzogiorno, well concentrated, could suffice. They also made names: Naples, Gioia Tauro, Taranto. Here, I think I can say that we have made a different reflection: perhaps it is the case to bet on a network of special economic zones that alongside these three major poles - the changes accepted in the Commission go in this direction - can constitute, precisely, a network, not widespread, but widespread at the right point in order to be that grid that puts all the territories, all the Regions of the Mezzogiorno in the conditions of being able to seize this opportunity and thus contribute to this new phase of attraction regarding both new investments and the valorization of the industrial heritage, manufacturing and the already existing logistics chain. This will allow some regions, the larger ones, to count up to two special economic zones - I am thinking of Puglia or Sicily - and to other regions, where there are no ports classified in the European network so-called TEN-T, to be able to contribute to this opportunity. I think about the possibility of putting together Abruzzo and Molise. In short, another significant bet that I think is absolutely to be won and that I am sure the Mezzogiorno will be able to grasp best. Another issue is that of simplifications and there are different ones in this provision: administrative simplifications, procedural simplifications, which certainly pertain to the process and the relationship between enterprises and public administration, but also to the relationship in the institutional chain. Often, the various institutional levels include elements of friction that do not help the decision-making processes or the best and most effective use of the same public resources. I am thinking, in particular, of a measure that goes in the direction of streamlining procedures to spend the resources of the so-called South Pacts, which I mentioned at the beginning. With this simplification rule, regions and local authorities that will adopt these instruments and present projects, with a simple instrument of self-certification, will be able to obtain early anticipations. Other simplifications take place in the field of environment and waste and financial standards between regions and local authorities. Again with regard to local authorities, I would like to mention an intervention which looks yes to the Mezzogiorno, but also to the whole country: an intervention which may still be insufficient, but which has seen the unanimity of the Commission in greeting the goodness of this measure. I am referring to the 100 additional million euros, although insufficient, destined to alleviate the suffering, the financial criticality in which the Provinces and the metropolitan cities of our country live, to be assigned to the fundamental functions. We are very clear how these local authorities have lived and are experiencing moments of extraordinary difficulty, which undermine the same ability to deliver the fundamental functions. In some of these institutions there are even risks of financial failure and not only the fundamental functions are at risk, but also the same ability to maintain the workforce and functions. I believe that with the forecast of an additional EUR 100 million, which is added to the interventions contained in the last law of stability and in the so-called maneuver of last spring, we are going in the direction of alleviating a particularly serious problem. Before I come to the conclusion, I would like to draw two more points. With the measure under consideration, we are still talking about the biggest industrial crisis in the country and, I believe, the whole of Europe. I refer to the issue of Ilva, which is dealt with by means of three measures, the first of which is to give stability and certainty to the extraordinary administration. The second measure is aimed at consolidating the legal and legal framework that binds the resources resulting from the confiscation of the assets seized by Riva to the destination that had already been identified in previous laws. More than one billion euros will be allocated to the reclamation and environmental rehabilitation of the site of Taranto and, in addition, the decree-law under consideration realizes the conditions to use the new resources that have been acquired in the last weeks and months by the judiciary. I am referring to the sum of EUR 90 million, also linked to the issue of environmental rehabilitation, but looking at the whole ILVA group and, therefore, at all the plants. I believe that the idea of the administration of the Commission and of the Government itself is to allocate these resources to the other establishments of the ILVA group beyond that of Taranto. The other issue I would like to mention is the instrument, introduced by this decree-law and which we have further strengthened in the Commission, of the so-called standard costs for universities. This is a complex operation, the balance of which I believe will be positive because it could not be otherwise. In this regard, all the Groups and the Government themselves must be thanked for the attention they have put on the subject: the balance will certainly be positive, in terms of additional resources and attention in favour of this new mechanism towards the universities of the Mezzogiorno of Italy. My colleague, Mrs Vicari, has already mentioned the issue of free depreciation, and I shall not dwell on that. This is an extraordinary measure which, if I may say, is working very well and finds the interest and enthusiasm of many companies, so much so that from the business system comes the urge to the Government and the Parliament to lengthen the time of use and to increase the resources made available for the so-called Industry 4.0. We have extended the deadline for a further three months, which means that additional financial resources are needed to support the measure. The last issue on which I would like to focus is the earthquake, which we wanted to recall in the measure and which has been the subject of attention by all the Groups, no one excluded, present in the Senate. It is enough to call for the importance and urgency of changing the rules, improving them more and more and making them as efficient as possible. We have collected the indications from all the groups and summarised them in a rewording of the amendments that have been proposed, together with the Government. An additional EUR 100 million has been provided for urgent measures to dispose of the rubble that still persist in the crater area. The measure also contains rules of simplification and provides for the extension of the state of emergency, the lengthening of the times for the submission of claims for compensation and the elimination - it will seem a paradox, but it took a rule - of the inheritance tax on the houses unfortunately destroyed by the earthquake. It seems to me that we have also done a good job in this respect, collecting the indications from all the groups. These are concrete and targeted measures which, as I said at the beginning of the intervention, are part of a policy and a vision. We are talking about further steps towards an organic policy to relaunch and exploit the extraordinary potential of the Mezzogiorno. All of us, no one excluded, have quite clear how weaknesses and unresolved limitations still remain: let us think of the great infrastructures, starting with railway interconnections, the need to consolidate support for the productive system, the research and the formation of human capital, the themes of tourism and culture. Today, however, even in converting the decree-law that we are dealing with here and the measures that we have mentioned, I believe that we can firmly claim that in recent years we have reversed the trend, a trend that for too long has seen a focus on the Mezzogiorno full of words and commitments but poor of acts and policies. Now, we can well say, we have a policy and finally acts and measures that go in the direction of really relaunching and enhancing the potential of the Mezzogiorno and we are aware that from here too the path of consolidation of that recovery that begins to appear in our country, that with the Mezzogiorno will be even stronger and more solid. [[Applause from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-07-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-865.ana.u12	I declare that a question has been referred to the Court for a preliminary ruling. He asked Senator Cassinelli to intervene to illustrate it. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-07-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-865.ana.u13	Madam President, before explaining the question, I would like to point out that the sound system that I share with Mr Boccardi has been in maintenance for over a month. I would therefore like to ask you, if possible, to ask the competent Bureau, so that on the next occasion I can speak from my post, without having to abuse Mr Pelino's kindness. Thank you. The decree-law under consideration is the 71st urgent measure, if you add those of the Renzi Government and the Silveri Gentiloni Government. The Commission continues to use an abnormal and inappropriate use of the urgent decree, through which there is a radical and unacceptable shift in legislative production from Parliament to the government. My speech will therefore not have the characteristic of novelty compared to the speeches made on similar occasions by my group colleagues, but this is not up to us, but rather to a government that continues to respond to a modus operandi that humiliates Parliament. In particular, the Decree-Law brings measures in favour of young entrepreneurs in the Mezzogiorno, called "Resto al Sud" (Resto al Sud), financial measures in favour of youth entrepreneurship in agriculture and promotion of supply chains in the Mezzogiorno; establishment of special economic zones; tax benefits and simplification measures; simplification provisions for the enhancement of development pacts; valorisation of institutional development contracts; simplification provisions in the field of extraordinary administration; measures in the field of standard cost per student; provisions in the field of environmental rehabilitation by the extraordinary administration of the ILVA; measures in the field of technical and administrative assistance to local authorities in the Mezzogiorno; urgent measures to address situations of social marginality and other measures. However, the technical report, from which it is deduced that all the decree-law is made at zero balance, in the sense that it does not allocate an additional cent on what is planned for 2017 and for the three-year period 2018-2020, is immediately in vain. Therefore, the planned interventions, which in the Government's intentions are aimed, on the one hand, at overcoming the gap between the Regions of the South of Italy and the rest of the country and, on the other hand, at introducing new instruments aimed at the growth of the Regions of the Mezzogiorno, also through measures for young entrepreneurs, seem to us to be absolutely insufficient to achieve the economic objective that they aim and, above all, to determine the existence of the requirements referred to in Article 77 of the Constitution. In fact, these measures could not only be included in more rational and cohesive measures, but even, in some cases, adopted with ordinary instruments to rationalise the development and cohesion funds, being the only financial source from which they draw. On the other hand, we are once again, in the presence of a stratification of provisions, a disordered and incisive regulatory mode. It should also be pointed out that the homogeneity of assistance to certain areas of the Mezzogiorno cannot be used. Dishomogeneousness aggravated by the amendments adopted in the Commission, among which I quote that, in my opinion, which is really not the subject of this intervention, concerning the rules for combating the phenomena of forest fires. There is certainly no question of the need to combat this phenomenon, which is causing serious damage to our natural heritage, but it is not conceivable to include a rule that has such an important criminal importance in an instrument such as that which we should be converting today. In the case of decree-laws, which represent an extraordinary and unusual way in which the Government can legislate, further assessment is necessary if, when converting into law, any proposals for modification or integration of the text conflict with the principles of homogeneity of the provisions and of their necessity and urgency given by current and contingent situations. The measure in our examination is added to a long list of similar legislative initiatives issued by the Government in the last two years, for which the possession of the criteria of extraordinary necessity and urgency, provided for in Article 77 of the Constitution, is residual and the homogeneity of the text appears to be compromised by heterogeneous provisions that make it disorganic. Moreover, the measure, precisely because of the succession of heterogeneous provisions, is objectively lacking in its structural linearity, in the sense that the treated materials are not sequential and united by a link. It should be recalled that the verification of the criterion of homogeneity is one of the fundamental pillars on which the Constitutional Court has always founded the argumentative paths linked to the presence, or absence, of compliance with the indispensable requirements of extraordinary necessity and urgency required by Article 77 of the Constitution for the legitimate adoption of decree-laws. In particular, the judgment of the Constitutional Court n. 22 of 2012 considers illegitimate the decree-law whose content is free of the constraint of homogeneity explicitly provided for in article 15, paragraph 3, of Law n. 400 of 23 August 1988. In fact, as argued by the Court, where it prescribes that the content of the decree-law must be specific, homogeneous and corresponding to the title, although not having, in itself and in itself, constitutional rank, and therefore not being able to become a parameter of legitimacy in a judgment before the Court itself, constitutes explicitation of the ratio implicit in the second paragraph of Article 77 of the Constitution, which requires the link of the entire decree-law to the extraordinary case of necessity and urgency. The measure before our examination, therefore, shows distortions that are to be considered a clear abuse. The Government has in fact considered, in an inappropriate way, that to insert in the title the term "urgent" is sufficient reason to justify the necessity to issue a decree-law. Moreover, the instrument of the Decree-Law is used to propose a type of old measures, such as that of non-refundable or zero-rate financing, which over the years have been widely demonstrated to finish their scope when the rain financing ends. These measures are already seen and tested, which will not bring out new entrepreneurial initiatives, but simply to distribute sums in rain to a crowd of about one hundred thousand young people in the South. It follows that there is an improper political use of the urgent decree, which can also be seen in the fact that the measures adopted by the Commission enjoy a favourable position over those of parliamentary initiative, both in terms of number and duration. Unfortunately, we must note that any initiative by my Group to point out the absence of constitutional principles in the decree-laws has been in vain. If, on the one hand, there is a tendency of the Government to use the decree of urgency for a swift achievement of the objectives of its policy, that is, the decree of urgency to be understood as necessity and urgency in relation to the realization of the program of Government, on the other hand there is an inappropriate condescension on the part of this Assembly. In this regard, it should first of all be pointed out that Article 13 of the Decree-Law contains yet another intervention for the ILVA, whose problems have been going on for years, compared to which it would perhaps have been more reasonable to reflect and evaluate with the necessary deepening all the dynamics connected to the company and remained evidently unsolved by the previous decrees in this matter. It must be reaffirmed that a provision which repeats for the twelfth time in five years an intervention for the major Italian steel industry in extraordinary administration, renewing derogations from the Italian codes in order to allow the disposal of assets of the ILVA, is certainly a way of working once again at the limits of constitutionality. Article 14, on the other hand, extends the time limits laid down in the 2017 Budget Act for investments. This element is combined to point out that the decree-law proposes a series of provisions that clearly impose the absence of the appropriate coordination of the norms, which consequently compromise the characteristics of unity and all-inclusiveness of the decree of urgency and foreshadow a clear violation of the constraint implicitly provided by Article 77 of the Constitution, explicitly reaffirmed by the aforementioned article 15 of Law No 400 of 1988. Taking advantage of this authentic "various goods train" as the instrument of the decree-law, we charge ourselves with everything, even Article 15 which contains provisions of a purely organizational nature of the public offices that did not need a provision under Article 77 of the Constitution and that could be implemented by regulation. In short, once again, there is an inappropriate use of an instrument that our Constitution reserves for truly urgent and necessary initiatives. In conclusion, this is a measure which in any case does not introduce provisions capable of effectively bringing economic benefits to the Regions of the Mezzogiorno, but provisions that could have been applied in any Italian region, even in the North and also in virtuous regions. We therefore request that the Assembly decide not to pass to the examination of the bill of conversion into law of Decree-Law No 91 of 2017, Act of the Senate 2860. [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-07-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-865.ana.u14	Pursuant to Rule 93 of the Rules of Procedure, one representative per group may speak in the debate on the question referred for a preliminary ruling for no more than ten minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-07-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-865.ana.u15	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-07-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-865.ana.u16	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-07-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-865.ana.u17	[[Comments of Senator Sposetti]] Mr Giovanardi (PL-Id) But how, Spousetti, do I share the surgery you're sending me and you're treating me like this? Perhaps, President, Senator Sposetti, after listening to my speech, will realize that Tuesday 25 July will be another tragic day for the Senate. In fact, at 3 p.m. this afternoon I was in the Commission when the debate on a government amendment arrived. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Talk to the Presidency. Mr Giovanardi (PL-Id) Excuse me, Mr President, but I have the attenuating of a provocation. This amendment passed to the Committee on Justice for the opinion and then was passed to the Committee on Budgets, while the Committee on Constitutional Affairs was not even asked. Senator Albertini, rapporteur in the Commission Justice, recalled a sentence of 2014, very recent, with which the Constitutional Court has established the prohibition to configure, through a law of conversion, new norms of substantive criminal law with sanctioning effect whose preceptive content is not relevant to the decree-law, despite the decree-law in question contained criminal procedural rules. Now, I was distracted because I cannot follow everything: I knew that the rules for the economic development of the Mezzogiorno of Italy were under discussion and I was very surprised to find a rule - now I am talking about the method but then, President, I will come to the substance as the Minister of the Interior is present - which I consider to be demencial. We are a country where, if there is a road accident, we run to make a totally wrong road accident law, as it emerged later. Now there is the problem of the elderly who are being cheated and I read that the House of Deputies has been presented with a bill identifying a new crime that is not the scam, all based on the subjectivity of people, not only on age, but also on the physical or psychic conditions of the subject. Now there are fires and what does it do? The first useful instrument is taken, which is the decree-law for the development of the Mezzogiorno, and the umpteenth penal norm of our legal system is inserted in the race. At least they had written it intelligently: I will read the norm to you, so that you realize why Senator Albertini, rightly, had expressed an opinion against it. Then, having noted that the 5 Star Movement and the Democratic Party did not agree with his report, it simply pointed out to the Committee on Constitutional Affairs that the decree-law at our examination, as amended, is totally illegitimate. It is clearly illegitimate and it is a provocation against the Constitutional Court, says one who, at the time of the Giovanardi-Fini law, in 2006, had innocently inserted in the text some norms, before the Constitutional Court wrote in black and white that this is illegitimate in the decrees-laws in conversion. I had the attenuating that never the Constitutional Court had been interested in the decrees-laws in conversion. Now there's a well-established case law, so, in addition to guilt, I can see the malice. But what does the fire amendment say? That if for the crime that happens on a farm or a wood to whose owner is arrogated sentence of conviction for having started the fire, in addition to the sentence, is ordered the confiscation of the same property, which are then assigned, on request, to the Municipality in whose territory they are located. So, excuse us, let's try to reason: as was also said in the Commission, the farmer who burns stubble - why couldn't he do that - on his farm or on his bottom, in addition to the conviction, is also confiscated the farm, which then goes to the municipality? Do you think the Vesuvius incendiaries or the baiters are so stupid that they start the fire from their farm or start it on another farm? What does the judge do in front of one who accuses the other, saying that the fire did not start from his land, but from another land, when we insert such a drastic and draconian rule as the confiscation of the farm itself? I would ask my colleagues whether it is possible, in the method, for a vehicle such as the instrument of the decree-law on economic development and occupation of the South to be adopted and for a penal penalty rule to be put in place when the Constitutional Court has told us that it cannot be done, with the certainty that this rule will be deleted. We are here to make laws or to read the newspaper in the morning, to see what is the most effective news and to run to make a criminal norm, never meditated by anyone, never screened by anyone, in one afternoon, in half an hour, between the Justice Commission and the Budget Commission? But is the Budget Commission, I am addressing the President, a member of the Constitutional Court when, in a decree-law such as this, criminal rules are included, contrary to the provisions of the Constitutional Court? And why was the Committee on Constitutional Affairs not at all interested in deepening this issue? I understand that, since the amendment and the criminal penalty introduced in the text, if the Government puts its trust in it, this reproach will pass. It is an obnoxious procedural, unconstitutional and demencial matter, because I want to see who will be able to apply a rule of this kind fairly. It will serve to have the government write in the newspapers tomorrow that it has intervened immediately to combat the problem of fires. Let us hope that with the problem of drought something similar will not be done and that tomorrow we are not included in a decree-law a penal norm on those who waste water or those who do not close the fountains, because at this point, to run after the headlines, I have the impression that this Senate and this House are willing to approve the most incredible things. However, these are always criminal rules and convictions, with increasingly interpretable rules: not legal certainty, but certainty of the crime. I recall again, because it impressed me, the norm that will be transmitted to us by the House on the crime of fraud, which is declined differently depending on the subject who signs a telephone contract or who is contacted. I want to see, in the courts, how you will determine when the contract has been entered into correctly and when there is an incompetent person, who in some way has been cheated, out of the case of the scam. So we're multiplying crimes and the chances for innocent people to see their lives ruined. As I said before, does it seem possible that those who burn stubble and cause a fire may see the land confiscated? I repeat: who is going to assess the responsibilities of those who certainly go to burst fires away from his house or his farm, perhaps to blame others? Madam President, I should not have spoken today, but those who have tabled the question for a preliminary ruling are quite right. One cannot turn into a serious matter, which was approved in the Commission and which gives a concrete response, with all the effects it can have, to an employment and economic emergency in the South, and eventually derail everything because of a rule of this kind, which has not been examined and deepened by anyone. I know that then there are logics that will lead the House to vote in a certain way, but the debate in this House also serves to bear witness. I want to say to the Members present and to those who listen to us that we are going to exploit public opinion, trying to make people believe that problems are always solved by handcuffs, repression and inserting new crimes. And maybe they were effective! While the rule is written in such a way that some poor man, if the Constitutional Court does not intervene in cashing it, will be confiscated his land and someone else will take advantage of this rule to dig into the turbid. As far as I am concerned, I shall therefore vote with conviction in favour of the question referred for a preliminary ruling.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-07-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-865.ana.u18	I put to the vote the question referred by Senator Bernini and other senators for a preliminary ruling, QP1. It's not approved. ISGRO CHOLIPOTI' (FI-PdL XVII). Let's ask for a rehearsal. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I order the doors closed. We proceed to counter-test by electronic procedure. It's not approved. She is registered to speak Senator Montevecchi. You have the right to do so. [[Brusio.]] I call on my fellow Members who wish to leave the Chamber to do so in silence.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-07-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-865.ana.u19	Madam President, what about the decree-law on the Mezzogiorno when we examine it? It seems that it is the appetizer of Babette's lunch that will be consumed on the occasion of the last law of stability of this legislature, because what should have been a decree-law dedicated to a particular matter has turned into an assault on diligence, but I believe that will be so from here to the next electoral round: every moment is good for making gifts and for the sales at the end of the season! [[Brusio]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-07-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-865.ana.u20	Senator, let us wait a moment for colleagues who want to leave the Chamber to turn away, which I urge them to do in silence. Colleagues, allow Senator Montevecchi to speak with a minimum of silence in the Chamber.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-07-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-865.ana.u21	Montevecchi (M5S). I was therefore saying that, we are faced with the usual assault on the diligence for electoral purposes. Let us also see what has happened in those areas of my competence. For example, we have seen an amendment, which provides for the allocation for the National Academy of Santa Cecilia of 4 million euros for the year 2017 and of 250,000 euros, a regime, from 2018 onwards. Now listen to where the covers have been taken for this extraordinary measure aimed at covering the resources necessary to pay for the emoluments of the teachers of the training courses: they were taken from the Single Fund for the live show. Yay! That is the endless pit, of course, because from there we always go to take, as if we had not just fired in the Commission a measure that even provides for a strengthening of that fund. But then, in the end, what will be the result of this strengthening if we continue to draw fully from that Fund? The other piece of coverage - listen carefully - comes from the "Good School" Fund for the improvement and enhancement of school education. Yay! Already in the good school there was a whole series of measures at zero cost, now we are going to take, from the resources allocated, more money for the special contribution to the National Academy of Santa Cecilia and one day we will find out who we are doing the favor. Among other things, it makes a lot of laugh the motivation given by the former undersecretary Vicari for the inclusion of this measure within the decree-law for the Mezzogiorno, which said that many teachers of the courses of refinement at the Academy of Santa Cecilia are masters of music of the South and that, therefore, there is a certain relevance with the decree Mezzogiorno. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] Then we have the resources for the celebrations of the figure of Antonio Gramsci. I have great respect for a giant of our intellectual heritage, but this amendment was tabled by Senator Ugo Sposetti. My colleague, Mr Sposetti, who is so nice to me, I know that he organized a beautiful photographic exhibition, in Milan, on the figure of Antonio Gramsci: we hope then that the initiatives that this money will go to finance are also further, compared to those organized rightly and - I am told - also with great competence by Senator Ugo Sposetti. Then we have the amendment of the Government 15.0.1000, an additional article 15, which provides a total contribution of 100 million euros for the year 2017 to the Provinces and here would be to say, with a verse of Baptistian memory: You again? But we weren't supposed to see each other anymore? [[Applause from the M5S Group]] But not only that. The coverage, for 90 million, will be taken from the sums committed and no longer due for the eighteen-year-old card, the famous 18App. Here I am laughing because, a few days ago, our former Premier, Matteo Renzi, was boasting of the great success of the 18App and in the Commission we had the Secretary General of MIBAC, Dr. Pasquale Recchia, who came to tell us how it was working and that had already been spent so much money and that, however, many remained and that, therefore, were considering the possibility of extending this magnificent initiative. And, Oplà: the money remaining from the 18-year-old cultural charter initiative goes to finance the Provinces. Great. It's all great. Then we have Article 12, which seeks to transpose a Constitutional Court ruling on the standard cost per student for the repartition of the Fund for the ordinary functioning of universities and, here again, we have missed the opportunity to do something concrete so that the gap between the North and the South universities is progressively filled. During the examination of the measure, a proposal was adopted that includes the inclusion among the parameters of calculation also of students out of course in the first year; this thanks to an amendment of Senator Ferrara and an amendment of ours that was absorbed in the one. If it were not for this, all the other parameters and criteria contained in the decree-law in question are the same as provided for by the Gelmini reform, so in fact you are proposing a measure of Minister Gelmini that has been strongly criticized and opposed and, among other things, you did so without questioning the parties involved, so, of emblée, within a decree-law and without a hearing process. Perfect, let's go ahead with the disparities between North and South and that would be the so-called Mezzogiorno decree. There is also a contrast to school dispersal and child education poverty. Certainly it is a commendable and commendable objective, but it is a pity that you have not been concerned and did not want to take into account our amendments that asked, precisely to achieve this objective, to map the many riches present in the South of Italy and to maintain faith in the addresses given by the 7th Commission, which unanimously approved a resolution following a survey of the abandonment of cultural places, which provided for a mapping for the recovery, reuse, reuse and destination of these places so that they would become centres of cultural aggregation and social promotion to recover that rich intellectual heritage of which the South can boast, because it has many good young people who deserve opportunities and places in which to aggregate and make available to the community their lively intelligences. You didn't want to approve them. Moreover, a report by the organization Save the children reminds us that educational poverty and school leaving are also being fought by providing children with places of cultural enjoyment (cinema, theatres, museums); therefore you did not listen to us, but neither did Save the children and you cared about these proposals that went precisely in the direction of wanting to integrate this battle and make it all round. I conclude with a positive note, which I believe fills with pride not only me, but all the Group to which I belong, because if for the school year 2017-2018 in the schools of the crater hit by the earthquake it will be possible to form classes with a minimum number of students derogating from the current legislation, it will be thanks to the 5 Star Movement that submitted an amendment aimed at extending a derogation contained in a measure of January 2017 that was rightly concerned about the completion of the school year. I conclude with this good news that makes all of us very proud. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]] [[Senator Cardinal's comments. Protests of Senators Montevecchi and Lezzi.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-07-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-865.ana.u22	She's enlisted to speak Senator Pezzopane. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-07-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-865.ana.u23	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, Senators, representatives of the Government, I believe that the importance of this decree-law deserves more attention from all of us than has been demonstrated so far, and above all particular attention to the important measures provided for in the decree-law, which are many and positive. It cannot happen that only a few of the things that may have helped to approve are positive in this House, thanks to a majority that wants them and approves them. The decree-law in fact provides for extended measures, which go to meet a contradiction of this country, which has forgotten in the political and institutional debate the southern question, but which instead finds it every day in its constant work. It becomes difficult in today's debate in the Chamber, well introduced by the rapporteurs, to mention Justin Fortunato or Salvemini, Saverio Nitti or Antonio Gramsci. I shall confine myself to quoting Pertini, in 1982 (during the end of the year), when he said that the problem of the Mezzogiorno cannot be considered just a problem of those regions, but rather must be considered a national problem, if we want to overcome it. He was right and he is still right who supports those arguments, different from those who claim that the South is perhaps a ballast for the country. I don't think so, many of us don't think so, and this government doesn't think so. So he does not think, that within him he has a minister, after years, who deals with the competence of Mezzogiorno and who does not forget that there is a southern issue, because in this decree-law he addresses it in a new and modern way, not through policies of assistance, but through support to stimulate the development of the productive sectors driving and the development of self-entrepreneurship, necessary both to a new vision of the Mezzogiorno, because unfortunately the policies that we have behind have only diminished some of the gaps that there are between North and South. I speak from Abruzzo: Abruzzo is a region that had left the Mezzogiorno, which had come out of the European contributions for the South, which had for a short time a kind of soft exit, but which then had to return, precisely because the policies were not the right ones. Today the approach is new, today there are measures in favour of young entrepreneurs, today we give a clear message to the children and they are told to stay in the South, they identify tools and mechanisms, they identify age groups, controls, tutoring, monitoring, they identify the operators, they identify the supply chains, they insert agriculture within the possibilities for a young person to choose to stay in the South. Then there are the Special Economic Zones (ZES), with ports, which are absolutely important and necessary points of modernization. With this decree-law we have exercised ourselves in an important work in the Commission. Today, those who break down contradict the behavior they had during the constant and daily work of these days. And it is precisely in the Commission that, thanks to close cooperation with the rapporteurs and with the Government, we have brought out further positive initiatives, but they do not contradict those already put in place by the Government, but they go to clarify and strengthen, if anything to detail and improve. There are important measures. Meanwhile, there are initiatives to respond to the multiple needs of the populations affected by the earthquake 2016-2017. Several amendments have passed; the rapporteurs have taken note of certain needs and have arranged them in an amendment that produces some important extensions: the extension of the state of emergency; the extension for the submission of compensation projects; the extension for the system of recovery and intervention on waste and rubble, with the addition of new resources amounting to EUR 100 million. An amendment - which I tabled - which removes, for example, the sanctions related to the Stability Pact to administrators of the municipalities of the earthquake 2016-2017 is also approved. There are other amendments and other new possibilities for those populations, which of course need something else, and we will do more in the next instruments and in the next initiatives for those populations. Some rules and incentives provide strong and certain answers, certainly better and much higher than those given in other similar events. Perhaps we need to review and update governance, which is very complex and very rigid and which often means that the good measures that we approve come late to the people and to the citizens. These are some of the interventions that we have foreseen in the decree-law under discussion. Amendment 16.0.26 addresses the areas of the earthquake, including Abruzzo and other regions not of the South, but absolutely affected by this measure. I believe that we cannot at all postpone the discussion of the issues related to the emergency of the earthquake, still so close to us and still so dramatically perceived by the population. Important - I would like to stress this - is also an amendment tabled by the Government, receiving important actions from the Abruzzo Region and from my modest parliamentary activity, which allocates 250 million for the safety of the A24 and A25 motorways. I want to dwell on this measure, because those highways that connect Abruzzo to Lazio, strongly trafficked because of a daily movement of thousands and thousands of people moving from Abruzzo to Lazio and vice versa, have been affected in recent years by three seismic events (2009, 2016 and 2017), which have produced not only damages to the territory, but also, unfortunately, to those highways. Security must be guaranteed, and this government provision must be met with repeated demands, but further measures will certainly be needed. In this sense I have presented an agenda, accepted as a recommendation by the Government, to take note of a particularly delicate and emergency situation, also in the light of a sentence of the TAR, intervened just today, that denies the action of the Government and authorizes Autostrada of the parks to be able to increase the tolls. This could lead to a further increase in rates on these motorway routes on a daily basis, which we absolutely must avoid. The measures contained in this decree-law, therefore, cover more possibilities and different areas of economic intervention. They also intervene on school dispersal and serious problems, denounced for decades, concerning the Mezzogiorno of Italy, the economic crisis, in particular of certain areas, and the social crisis often linked to the economic crisis, which leads many young people to an early abandonment of the school system and however to the condemnation, unfortunately for themselves, to have to deal with a social system without even the basic qualifications. From this point of view, too, there are important measures in the Decree-Law, reinforced by the amendment of colleagues from the Democratic Party, which I would like to emphasise because of their sensitivity and their importance. In addition to this, the other instruments that we have put in place, the Government and Parliament, for the South, were rightly recalled, in particular the pacts for the South and the programmatic agreements also relating to the use of the masterplan funds that the Regions have adopted. In this regard, this decree-law intervenes above all in order to simplify and determine procedures that ensure that the political decisions that are taken by the institutions, often in close collaboration with each other, can then have a deployment, an exercise of concreteness in the territories faster and more adapted to the need of those same territories, where one no longer escapes with the cardboard suitcase tied by the laces, but where one escapes - still, unfortunately, often with the computer, with the titles of study, with the masters, in search of other spaces and other possibilities. However, in order to respond precisely to these new needs, to these new dramatic leaks, we cannot adopt old, charitable instruments that would not give the answers we want. And, then, just the new cut of the instruments identified in this decree-law that go, to the opposite of old customer and welfare practices, to affect precisely in the problematic areas (but that are identified as areas of potential development) in my opinion represents a fair move, wise, that gives this decree-laws the weight of an important measure, to which we can assign further value with the verification of the adopted instruments and with the necessary adjustments, if they were to serve. In studying the measures taken for the seismic crater of 2016-2017 we also examined amendments - and I conclude - that proposed simplification measures precisely to prevent the titanic effort that this country is making to give answers to those populations is not then cancelled by the laces and laces of complex governance. On this front there was no possibility of intervention in this decree-law, but I am sure that in the preliminary work to the budget law with the Government we will find the right measure to give further space, certainty, trust and future to those populations. [[Applause from the PD Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-07-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-865.ana.u24	He's enlisted to speak Senator Gualdani. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-07-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-865.ana.u25	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, the decree-law before this House follows that of last December, with which the Government launched a campaign of aid for critical situations in certain areas of the Mezzogiorno. The adoption of the decree-law in question has become necessary for the necessity to intensify the interventions aimed at facilitating the overcoming of the economic and social gap of the Regions of the Mezzogiorno compared to the other areas of the Country, introducing incentive measures for young entrepreneurs, as well as new simplification tools. As regards the incentive measures for youth entrepreneurship, significant is the measure "Resto al Sud', as referred to in Article 1 of the Decree-Law. It is expected to finance up to €1,250 million for the new young entrepreneurs under 35 of South Italy and €50 million to promote agricultural entrepreneurs under 40. In addition, some €200 million will be provided for the Special Economic Zones (SEZs), €40 million for active labour policies in the Mezzogiorno and €150 million for administrative support to local authorities. These actions, as cornerstones of the emergency measure, aim to give a greater boost to the economy of the Mezzogiorno, to the entrepreneurial culture and innovation of the regions of the South, in line with the process already begun with the previous decree-law on the Mezzogiorno, as well as to promote the identification of new incentives for new young entrepreneurs and the introduction of simplified procedures. With the measure Rest to the South, each applicant receives funding of up to EUR 50,000, 35% of which as a non-refundable contribution, paid by the measure manager, and 65% in the form of a zero-rate loan, repaid within eight years of the grant of the financing. Business activities relating to the production of goods in the sectors of crafts, industry, fisheries and aquaculture, or to the provision of services, including tourism, shall be financed. Accompanying actions are also planned by public bodies, universities and third sector associations to support this growth process. Who will be able to produce credible and sustainable projects, will have the full support of the State, in a relationship of mutual responsibility. The present decree-law also seeks to upgrade abandoned or uncultivated land and property in a state of abandonment. These are, in particular, agricultural land on which agricultural activity has not been carried out for at least ten years, land subject to artificial reforestation or in which shrub and tree formations are situated, and, finally, industrially built, handicraft, commercial and tourist-recipe areas, as well as related real estate units which have been abandoned for at least fifteen years, or on which there are no more farms or companies operating for at least fifteen years. The municipalities, therefore, must provide for an overall survey of the real estate and agricultural land to be integrated with the lists of the Bank of Agricultural Lands kept at regional level. The goods can be given in concession, for a period not exceeding nine years, renewable only once, to the subjects of age between eighteen and forty years, after presentation of a project aimed at the valorization of the use of the good. The measures implemented to deal with the damage caused by the beetle xylosandrus compactus, with particular reference to the carobs of the Sicilian Region, as well as the damage caused by the bacterium xylella annoying for the wine and oil sectors and all those derived from the diffusion in the wine sector, all sectors of extreme importance for South Italy. With regard to the establishment of special economic zones, new companies and those already operating can benefit not only from administrative simplifications, provided that they increase investment or undertake business programmes, but also from the South bonus, which is increased compared to the one provided for in the last Stability Act, for the purchase of new capital goods that are intended for productive structures in the Mezzogiorno. With the work of the Budget Committee, which I thank, it was not only possible to present up to two projects per region relating to the ZES, but also given the possibility to the regions of the South not closely connected with the trans-European transport network (the so-called TEN-T network) to have a special interregional economic zone. For the exercise of economic and entrepreneurial activities, the companies already operating and those that will settle in the ZES can benefit from special conditions in relation to the incremental nature of the investments and the activities of development and enterprise. In particular, they will be able to benefit from simplified procedures, access to existing and planned infrastructure in the strategic development plan of the ZES and will receive additional tax relief compared to the ordinary tax credit scheme in the South. Finally, the introduction of instruments to speed up public and private investment, as well as the presence of a support measure for local authorities that welcome migrants, are also worth mentioning, so that in emergency situations these municipalities are not left at the mercy of themselves. Another area which is essential for the South and on which the measure has taken action is fisheries. With an amendment approved in the Commission, daily allowances for periods of suspension of employment resulting from non-compulsory temporary arrests were financed. On the environmental issue, given the emergency drought and fires these days, an excellent result has been achieved with the tightening of restrictive measures against those who fire land for back-up purposes. Alternativa Popolare has seen, with the amendment approved in the Commission, recognized the goodness of the issue raised during the emergent phase, giving a concrete response to a plague that is afflicting our wooded areas. To conclude, Madam President, I would like to stress one of the many answers that Italy has given on the issue of safety in city centres. In this decree-law we have previewed a control coming and going from the historical centers of the metropolitan Cities of the flows of goods through the realization of an automatic system of control that exploits a new module of the national logistic platform. This is a tool for reconciling security and tourism at the same time. Tourist flows, therefore, will not be compressed, but their permanence and flow will be guaranteed by an additional state-of-the-art tool. With regard to South Italy, I immediately think of the cases of Palermo, as the capital of Italian culture 2018, and Matera, as the capital of European culture 2019. This measure, long awaited by the southern regions, now stands in a constant process of valorization of the excellences and strengths of the South and stimulation of the sleeping forces and abilities of our country. Therefore, I can only hope that the measure will be adopted quickly. [[Applause from the AP-CpE-NCD Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-07-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-865.ana.u26	He's enlisted to speak Senator D'Alì. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-07-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-865.ana.u27	Madam President, I have to say that if the policy for the Mezzogiorno of the Government and the majority is reflected in this measure, there is little to be cheered about. 18.14 (Follow-up). The gap between the North and the South already grows exponentially every day. Surely colleagues will have the opportunity to read the report by SVIMEZ - which is not a private, but a public institution, at the service of the institutions - which unfortunately takes into account a further increase in the gap between North and South and dramatic scenarios for South Italy if unfortunately, not because of this measure, things will not change. If these are the speeches, then we really wonder what the interest of the Government, the majority and the Parliament itself is in the so-called southern issue, which is a national issue. This is a miserable measure. Since we are going to allocate 20 billion euros for the rehabilitation of the banks of the North, of the Venetian banks, of the Monte dei Paschi, of the banks of the Centre-Nord see to be given interventions all to happen in their happening, coated in long periods - we speak of interventions with planned appropriations and split up until 2020 - it really seems laughable. If this is the policy for the Mezzogiorno of the Government, we have, with this measure, understood that there is no possibility of attention. Nobody asks for welfare, but there is no strategy. There is no direction; there is no exploitation of the great potential of the Mezzogiorno in the overall panorama of Europe and the Mediterranean. Nobody talks about the great international traffic, no one talks about the infrastructural gap, no one talks about the role that the Mezzogiorno could play, not only in our country, but in the entire Mediterranean area. And instead we are here discussing a few, very few, small interventions, linked to some initiatives that young people should take in order to have funding aimed at generic entrepreneurial activities, not knowing, among other things, which cultural basin to draw from. We have returned to the old postwar concepts of land occupation, through intervention on uncultivated lands. There is no question, however, why uncultivated lands still exist in our country. There is no question about our country's agriculture, which we discuss when we approve the motions or when we devote ourselves, at a time lost, to this very important chapter of the national economy and where thousands and thousands of hectares are still every year removed from agricultural activity by urban expansion, because there are still uncultivated lands. But do they exist? Or is this an instrument, very dear to the left, to camouflage expropriation especially on real estate? Lands, in fact, have so little value that very little can produce in economic terms to those who, if necessary, go to use them, where never these projects and these situations can be realized. There are, however, buildings that we already know are the subject of abusive occupation, especially in some large cities; and we know very well by whom and for what purposes they are occupied. Is this a Trojan horse to legalize absolutely illegal situations? But, apart from that, I have learned, also through the reading of the Commission's report, of a whole series of interventions which with the Mezzogiorno have nothing to do with or which, worse still, have to do with it and are resolved in the wrong way, not affecting the causes but, as always, trying to impose situations, especially of a criminal nature, which we have shown not to be decisive of what are the evils. Once again, do fires occur? Well, what do the majority and the government think they're doing? To tighten the pains, as if to tighten the pains were the solution. Instead of allocating resources for prevention, adequate resources to secure the areas (now more and more contained, because of what happened in this last summer season, still not concluded) precious of our country, we think we will tighten the penalties. That's what we think we're doing. Are there environmental problems? Let's tighten the penalties on environmental crimes! Are there any problems with the fires? Let's tighten our pains. For God's sake, every aspect must receive the right attention, even in terms of repression, but what is missing here is the policy of prevention. And I wonder if it is only accidental or accidental that the explosion of fires in this last year is consequent to the abolition of the Forest Corps of the State, wanted as a simplistic whim, which then was not, on the part of the previous Government and by this majority because it was necessary to give a signal of reduction of costs. In fact, not only has there been no sign of cost reduction: the costs have remained such and from a bureaucratic point of view and the consequences and dysfunctions that have arisen following the abolition of the State Forestry Corps have increased enormously. This is certified and documented in the records of what has happened so far this summer. It is precisely in the minutes of emergency fire interventions that there is a delay in the emergency chain due precisely to a confusion of roles and uncertainty as to who should do what and how, when these situations occur. So, ladies and gentlemen, I repeat, if this is the policy of the Government for the Mezzogiorno, alien from any structural intervention, alien from any strategic intervention, alien from the true interest of the people of the Mezzogiorno, then we can really sing the de profundis of our Mezzogiorno unless we really want to force, in the good sense of the term, the people of the Mezzogiorno to a snap of pride. As they say, virtue is made of necessity, and therefore abandonment, in this case, can make virtue. We always trust that the people of the Mezzogiorno will have their pride. In this case it can only be a step starting from the consideration of absolute political, structural and economic abandonment compared to the consideration that, instead, is reserved to other areas of the country. If these are really the measures for the Mezzogiorno, then we must close this decree-law. You will vote for it with the vote of confidence (but certainly not with the confidence of the people of the South). I wonder whether, in the context of the majority, colleagues from the Mezzogiorno of Italy say positive things about this measure out of conviction or obligation resulting from political membership. The political representatives of the regions of the South should put the real interests of their territories ahead of the orders from the political secretariats and the need to maintain the majority and the government. This is unfortunately what has condemned the South from the unity of Italy to this day. We ourselves have been architects of our backwardness because we have subordinated the judgments that we had to make and the proposals that we had to make, for our policy, to the political secretariats that imposed other solutions and certainly imposed other choices that preferred, especially in infrastructural terms, other areas of the country. Therefore, as long as we continue to remain, as a political class of the South, trapped in this belt, in this straitjacket consisting of the obligation to respect the majorities and the obligation to respect the directives that come from the political secretariats that force those who are part of the majority to set aside the interests of the Mezzogiorno in order to give priority to the general political interests, the Mezzogiorno will certainly have no hope. One thing perhaps had to be included in this decree for the Mezzogiorno: the return of those 4 and a half billion resources taken away by the law of stability 2015 when, in order to finance the decontribution on new recruitments, which then created an employment bubble of which we will pay, at the end of the measure, surely the effects at the overall national level, were blocked 4 and a half billion infrastructural interventions in the Mezzogiorno in the absolute silence of the representatives of the countries of the South. I then fought in the Budget Committee so that this would not happen, but with my colleagues, both from my region and from other southern regions, voted in favour of the measure proposed by the central-left government of the time. This would have been enough to return to the Mezzogiorno the malting of an intolerable robbery that continues to weigh on the infrastructural gap between the South of Italy and the rest of the country. And the situation will continue until we are determined to restore these injustices and demand not assistance, but respect for our rights and laws that already provide for these things for our territories, and as long as we are content with such shattered and badly managed inequities, of which we would also like to see the effects, when measures with five-year or ten-year funding will already be forgotten and will not have produced any real change in the economic situation of the Mezzogiorno. As long as we are satisfied, so to speak, with all this and we see the passage of such laughable rules in this Parliament in the form of measures in favour of the Mezzogiorno, then unfortunately even the North of Italy will have to realize that the increase in the gap between the South and the North is a damage to the whole country. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator Ferrara Elena is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-07-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-865.ana.u28	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the aim of this measure is to give greater impetus to the development of entrepreneurial culture and innovation in the Mezzogiorno. This progress cannot be without educational development, which is covered in a number of articles to which I shall refer specifically. Article 11 allows the MIUR to identify, following a decree and in agreement with the Ministers of the Interior and Justice, areas of social exclusion, characterized by child education poverty and school dispersal, as well as a high rate of organised crime, in order to be able to issue notices that will be addressed to networks of schools in agreement with the local authorities, subjects of the third sector, territorial sports structures, or public education services for children, operating in the territory concerned. The aim is to design and implement, in the areas of social exclusion, two-year educational interventions in favour of children, aimed at combating the risk of early training failure and educational poverty, as well as for the prevention of situations of fragility in relation to the attractiveness of crime. We are also told by the data reported by the IV National Plan of Action and interventions for the protection of rights and development of subjects in evolutionary age 2016-2017, which show how in Italy the condition of people of less age who live in absolute poverty has worsened. The widespread worsening of economic conditions has affected the most vulnerable and among them children and new generations who have paid the highest price. The data available to us show how real the risks and fragility are and, consequently, how much action is being taken to combat the phenomena covered by Article 11 of the measure under discussion as a priority as a matter of urgency. We cannot create development unless we start from education, culture and knowledge. And we know that child poverty is not just about the South and it is not just about education. These are issues that we have been dealing with for years in the Education and Culture Commission and in bicameral childhood and adolescence, with cognitive surveys on both poverty and the rights to cultural and artistic heritage. These are issues that we have dealt with with with important government measures that concern both school and social affairs: we think, for example, of the calls for educational poverty that have been issued this year and will bring resources where there will be a need to work in this direction. The risk to minors is primarily associated with the geographical breakdown of residence and the title of study of the adult reference person, as reported in this year's report to the Parliament of the Child Care Supervisor of Adolescence. So, it counts where a child lives and what a degree his parents have. Children in the Mezzogiorno and those living in households with a maximum primary licence present a relative poverty risk of about 4 times higher than those of residents in the North and those living with a reference person at least graduated. We also learn from the report that, as a result of the increased impact of migratory flows in the southern regions, more than 60% of unaccompanied minors are welcomed in the regions of Sicily, Calabria, Puglia, Campania and Basilicata: these territories also have to face up to this. In the report published by Save the Children in 2017, which has already been mentioned, some data are taken from 15-year-olds, who do not reach the minimum skills in mathematics and reading. It is evident that a teenager living in Campania has almost twice the probability of not achieving the minimum competences in mathematics compared to a contemporary living in Lombardy and three times as much as a fourteen-year-old of the Autonomous Provinces of Bolzano and Trento. Very similar percentages are found regarding reading: in Campania 31 percent of pupils are at an educational disadvantage, compared with 14 percent in Bolzano, and 11 percent in Trento. It's, you know, data that makes you think. Much is being done in these regions, also as a result of the investments made in recent years on school and related services. For example, Campania has seen a 20% increase in classroom coverage over two years. This is a positive trend common to most southern regions: we see a 15% increase in Calabria, 11% in Sicily and 10% in Abruzzo. The region of Puglia, which has launched a multi-annual project called "Rights to School," recognised by European projects as a good practice, has reduced the rate of school dispersal by two percentage points over five years. It is possible to intervene and have concrete results, but it is necessary to build network systems with local authorities, the private social and cultural bodies, as indicated in Article 11 of the Decree-Law under consideration in the projects of the National Operational Programme (NOP). In addition to the conditions of absolute and relative poverty, also in the report of the Guarantor for Childhood and Adolescence, alarming signs have emerged for cases of educational poverty, with reference not only to the formal and informal education system, but also to the right to growth and to relational, emotional and emotional development. That is why it is more appropriate to talk about educational poverty. In our country, a minor out of 10, between six and seventeen years old, in 2016 he never went to the theatre or a museum, never visited exhibitions, monuments and archaeological sites, he did not play sports with assiduousness. There are six out of 10 people who have not carried out four or more of the activities mentioned and the peaks are in Calabria, Sicily and Campania. So the decree-law on our examination comes into this very matter. We believe that it was indeed an important element to have put this focus on educational poverty. Article 12 of the Decree-Law concerns the standard cost per student, which is regulated as a criterion for the financing of universities which, along with the criterion of historical expenditure, has the aim of making state funding, through the distribution of the Ordinary Operating Fund (FFO), consistent with the level of efficiency of costs incurred by universities to provide their services to students. The Commission's work in the referee has achieved the result of enriching the original text of Article 12 of the Decree-Law (this did not happen in Article 11, for which there was in fact only one amendment, while in this case we had to work a lot) with some important changes, which emphasize mainly the equalization profiles, in the direction of benefiting particularly the universities of the Mezzogiorno. In particular, I recall the amendment on the standard teaching budget, which determines it so that it remains "constant" within a certain range of student numbers for each study class. It has been specified that the different contexts to which to refer for the assessment of the different contributory capacity of students enrolled in the university, with regard to the average family income of the territorial division where the university is based, usually at regional level, are in particular those economic and territorial ones. Moreover, the standard cost per university student is expected to be multiplied by the number of students regularly enrolled in the course, plus, as has already been said in this House, the students enrolled in the first year off course. I would like to focus two more points and finish. The first concerns national technology clusters. An important amendment has been approved in the Commission, dealing with national technological clusters, such as support and efficiency structures for the coordination of industrial research policies at national and local level, as well as the link between measures promoted at central and regional level and, with reference to the Mezzogiorno regions, also as a facilitator for the implementation and use of interventions on the territory. These are figures related to innovation poles referred to in the Commission's EU Regulation, which will soon have to take the form of recognised association or foundation, where they are not already established in another non-profit legal person. Each cluster is expected to draw up a three-year action plan, updated annually, describing the activities it plans to carry out, including strategically, in order to achieve the objectives, objectives, expected results, timing, organisational aspects, necessary resources, as well as the territorial context of the interventions. Within the three-year action plan is included a special section referring to the Mezzogiorno which, taking into account the productive vocations of the Mezzogiorno areas, sets out the actions for industrial research, innovation and technology transfer in favour of these areas, as well as the collaborations with public and private entities, also of other regions, aimed at the full involvement of the same for the concrete implementation of the action plan. I conclude by making a reference, although it has already been mentioned, to a very important amendment that went hand in hand with an amendment tabled by Senator Puglisi and by the whole PD Group of Commission 7a of the Senate. Instead, it has been acquired that presented by Senator Montevecchi - but this we are pleased - in order to be able to give continuity to the derogation from the teacher's staff also for the school year 2017-2018. I do not think they should be exploited because they are cross-cutting interventions and we are pleased that very often, when dealing with these issues, we are getting along with each other. Senator Puglisi's amendment 15.0.40 provided for a further measure. The government and the MEF have accepted the other and so ours has been absorbed. I repeat: we are very happy and pleased to have been able to include this measure in this decree-law, which was previously not foreseen, because it is certainly very important following the shocks that marked this last weekend. [[Applause from the PD Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-07-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-865.ana.u29	Senator Uras is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-07-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-865.ana.u30	Mr President, I believe that measures on the Mezzogiorno have been needed for a long time and that this, although it contains interesting elements, is not exactly what we need to overcome the economic, cultural, political and institutional limit of Italy at two speeds, with a rich, powerful and industrialized Centre-North and a Mezzogiorno in conditions of difficulty, of deep discomfort characterized by heavy backwardness. This must be said because it places the measure which, I repeat, I welcome for what it can do under the conditions given. It is not a measure that exhausts a necessary path; it is a measure that mentions some issues that need to be dealt with in a more coordinated and homogeneous way in a policy for the Mezzogiorno that we need and that we can no longer put in place. I would remind you of one of the institutions mentioned in this measure. I am referring to action on youth employment, self-employment and self-entrepreneurship for young people between the ages of eighteen and thirty-five. It does so in several areas, using the financial instruments of the European Union, hence the Community support framework, and using the possible forms of financing, both the non-refundable ones and the low interest rate credit, which is even totally downgraded. It does so, moreover, starting from the conviction that it is necessary to enhance local development, that is, the productive vocations of the places, the resources that are distributed in an area of the country that remains poor, but that is rich in potentiality and quality. That's if we defend her. Even in these hours, in fact, there are those who think to attack the territory, not to enhance its capacity for development. There is, in fact, a culture that wants to defend the heritage of all, to bring the land back to its original function, that of production, that wants to safeguard it from pollution. There are those who defend the territory, but there are also those who attack it, those who act on the thrust of personal selfishness and on the basis of irrepressible ambitions towards wealth, towards accumulation, towards a proprietary use of the common good. There are those who have this approach and those who defend the common heritage. I believe that on this line, encouraging self-entrepreneurship, even in sensitive areas such as agriculture, is not a negative element, but absolutely positive. I have also heard here evoke the season of land occupations. I wish there were the same spirit, because that season produced an overall growth of the country and emancipated from poverty entire communities. I wish we were within that logic, because there was a sense of being a people, of being committed to freeing ourselves from poverty and rebuilding a country torn apart by the civil war and the mourning of the Second World War. I think that that was an absolutely productive season of which we must remember at 360 degrees, recognizing the causes of the difficulties of that time, but also the merits in that situation of the desire for ransom that has occurred in Italy and of desire for ransom we must speak for the Mezzogiorno when we address this issue. Local development is a great thing, because it puts in the hands of those who live in the places the possibility of organizing their own existence. Moreover, the employment that we evoke can no longer be found in the right way; that is, healthy employment, good, paid and unexploited work, which is what we know today; I am referring to paid work for its weight and value, a job seen as emancipation and regaining the dignity of those who are engaged in it. Starting from local development, that is, building the conditions of development where one lives and anchors economic activity to the destiny of one's territory, means participating in the life of the community building, for that community, a perspective of progress. This is what is in part in this measure, which still has an emergency character, which intervenes in a very complicated situation, trying to insert some positive elements, but certainly not decisive. Another thing I want to say is that some amendments have been accepted - I think positively - in the debate that has developed in the Commission; they are all amendments of great reasonableness. Every time we make a legislative production, each of us carries out demands of social categories and territorial areas, but it collides with a rather crude reality, that of a government sometimes hostage also of the Ministries. When I speak of Ministries, I speak of that set of provisions and visions that are now the result of the conditioning imposed by bureaucracies, which travel in rigid channels. We need to think about this: politics, Parliament, the ability to legislate according to the need cannot find systematic obstacles to concluding things that are needed. I quote one for all: the Mezzogiorno has a very difficult and complicated infrastructure and transport situation. Well, Mr President, there was an amendment, tabled by myself and Mr Stefano, which concerned a very simple matter: to subject the system of so-called complementary railways, the one-track railways, the ones where the most serious railway accidents are often consumed, and where the mourning for the lack of infrastructure and the inability of those people to put in place adequate safety systems, to the railway supervisory body, ensuring that this body, which is valid for the national dimension, would also apply to the regional and local dimensions of the Mezzogiorno of Italy, where those people mainly manage rail transport. It is obvious that it costs the integration of financial resources to a state agency. Well, we were told that this could not be done, because the agency had to be adapted to this need. So, since we have some cover issues and we have some reorganization issues, what do we leave behind? We leave the local and regionally run railways out of safety parameters. Then, when an accident occurs, we all come here to mourn the dead, to present motions and questions to ask the Government and the Minister of the Chair to intervene on a situation that we could have settled if we had not dealt with the problem on account of reason. We did it positively in another case. Sardinia is one of the regions crossed by fire and has been systematically so: it carries out, through green yards managed by the local authorities, an activity of fire prevention, forest care, cleaning, rehabilitation and environmental restoration of the places. It risked not being able to do so anymore, at the expense of the Region and the Sardinian local authorities, so take care, without drawing from the state's coffers, just because there is a provision that imposes strict limits on recruitment by local authorities, even when it comes to temporary projects, with temporary and completely occasional application of personnel. In this case we met and managed to obtain the extension of a provision that we had already put on the field in even then difficult circumstances, those of the flood of Olbia and the mourning that came from it, precisely because there was a problem of care and maintenance of the territory. I believe that this is the main value of the measure under discussion: the attempt to evaluate and consider the territory of the Mezzogiorno as a resource that must be helped to express the maximum of its potential by making accurate maintenance of that territory and safeguarding it from possible speculative aggressions. [[Applause from Senator Mussini.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-07-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-865.ana.u31	Senator Bertorotta is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-07-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-865.ana.u32	Mr President, this decree-law arrives in this House with the aftertaste of the usual pre-election tips; it could not be otherwise, since we will have to vote in a few months' time. It is worth noting a practice of this majority, more attentive to the search for roboating titles than content aimed at really changing things. So, while the banks in recent years have cashed as many as 85 billion in grants lost by the state, for the re-launch of half of the country how much have you allocated? Just over 1 billion, most of which come from the development and cohesion funds set out in the 2014 Stability Act. You have finally spent this money, which is few and badly spent. How can one seriously fabulize the recovery of the South with practically crumbs, of what remains after a series of measures that do nothing but transfer wealth from Italian citizens to a few large enterprises? Just to understand what are the priorities of this Government and those that preceded it, that is the banks, it must be said that between the young and less young of the South and the banks, you have chosen the latter. Other than pompous speeches, which by us in Sicily are called speeches from "quaquaraquà" to quote the famous Sciascia, which we all know well. So much rhetoric but few facts, as the PD likes. The South is full of emergencies, but you launch the measure "I'm staying in the South" which should encourage our young people to stay in the South, to open up small and medium-sized enterprises. Truly, I am convinced that many of you have done the wrong job: you had to translate the titles of foreign films; nothing but work in this Palace! "I'm staying in the South," recalls very much "Welcome to the South," a lucky film, comic as this decree-law. One of the ingredients is the young people, those with the three Gs ahead, who make every initiative benevolent. Who cares if one of the problems in the South is the least young, just as in need of incentives? And down with useless and counterproductive rhetoric. We, who are responsible, have proposed a series of changes, starting from the basic conditions to stay in the South: to have a decent home. I have tabled an amendment calling for my draft law concerning the self-recovering of abandoned buildings, both public and private, in order to recover the historic centers of our abandoned cities of Province, perhaps establishing craft activities and putting them into tourist routes. Well, this amendment requires a little more than EUR 400 million that we will not take from general taxation, but from small increases in rates to banks and insurance, which are the only entities that have received huge funds from the state in recent years. What are we going to do, Mr President, distinguished colleagues? Do we want to recover this building and give a home to those who need it or do we want our young people, who are already out of work, not even have a home, so they are super encouraged to leave? Those who have presented constitutional prejudices are right: in this decree-law you have put everything, even money for the usual migrant emergency. Here too, however, you have made a mistake, in my humble opinion, because, instead of giving money and encouraging the municipalities that welcome, you simply increased the funds for the reception, creating further disparities between Italian citizens, to whom you continue to deny the income of citizenship and work, and friends of friends who welcome them, who will have even more funds. In the amendment before me, I would ask that we remove the constraints on the sums allocated to the municipalities in order to devolve them on those municipalities which accept as funds to be spent on their own citizens, not on receiving them; but here too it seems to me that we are not there. Last but not least, the idea of inserting an increase in penalties for arsonists, which I had also hoped for and strongly asked for. It was quite simple: we had to limit ourselves to increasing the penalties for the forest fire - as also provided for by an amendment of mine - which in fact pass in the minimum from four to seven years and in the maximum from ten to fifteen years, in fact comparing the forest fire to terrorism; we had to increase the constraints for the burned land to the point of making the fire uneconomical, and instead you introduced a liberticide rule that sequesters the land to the farmer to give it to the municipality that absolutely does not know what to do with it. Congratulations alive! [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-07-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-865.ana.u33	And enlisted to speak Senator Fucksia. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-07-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-865.ana.u34	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, today we are beginning the parliamentary debate on the umpteenth decree-law issued by the Government, which has dealt urgently with the provisions necessary to stimulate the economic growth of the Mezzogiorno. Well, urgency is a stable condition in our Mezzogiorno, since the time of the unification of Italy. Today, once again, the southern question is the whole of the problems posed by the existence of the Mezzogiorno, but I have been telling you from the start of my speech that the issue is much wider and does not concern the only southern pole of Italy. Today there is a situation for which there is a lower level of economic development, a different and backward system of social relations, a weaker development of many important aspects of civil life than the other regions of the country, especially the northern ones. The serious degradation of administrative life and the systems of local authorities, the poverty in the Mezzogiorno, our fellow citizens represent one of the most serious failures of the State, frustrated the recipes proposed by the historical right, by the transformist left, by jolitism, by fascism, by the historical compromise made of Cassa del Mezzogiorno, rain financing, cathedrals in the desert, clientele consent, particularist autarchy that has removed private investments without bringing to profit the large public investments. Today there is a need for measures that reduce the differential of growth of the most depressed areas of our country, of all areas of our country wherever they are located geographically. We need to go beyond the narrow geographical boundaries. To achieve this goal, structural reforms are needed that intervene and radically reverse the current trend throughout the country, not only in the South. Then there is a specific element of criticism of this decree-law. We risk failing the objective set because, while appreciating the economic and financial effort put in place by the Government, I believe that the measure contains only experimental, emergent, non-structural maneuvers, which risk being insufficient to give a stable solution to the age-old problem. What facilitates the birth and growth of new entrepreneurship is always useful, but - I repeat - the new entrepreneurship will be concentrated in particular areas, without guaranteeing the uniform growth of the entire southern territory, nor will it be usable in the rest of Italy. In the provision is in fact previewed the institution of the Special experimental economic Zones (ZES), to be constituted in the harbour areas only. Partly useful is also the measure "Stay in the South" because it offers to young southerners who do not have own resources to start a productive activity a budget of 50,000 euros, one third of which to lose money, and the remaining part granted with soft-rate financing. However, it is regrettable that only some of our young people, young entrepreneurs, wanted to reward their courage and initiative. I wonder why liberals and traders have been unfairly excluded from the benefits, feeding further imbalances within our southern social fabric. I now come quickly to the point that it seems central to me to criticize the rule that we must convert to law. It seems to me reductive and anachronistic to concentrate efforts to improve the economic situation of our fellow citizens by continuing to use the geographical criterion alone. There are many Meridions of Italy and not all are located in the South. I am referring to the depressed areas, where there is insufficient business activity because they are discouraged, hindered and denied, with the obvious consequences for work, or better, for their lack, wherever they are throughout the national territory. I believe that the state must intervene wherever it is needed, without distinction of geographical latitude. A criterion, a compass for public intervention in the economy could be represented by the average of economic data. Well, in all the regions of Italy, wherever the unemployment rate exceeds the national average, we should apply favourable measures similar to those we are about to approve. I take the example of my region, the Marches, which I know well. The most serious and worrying unemployment rate in recent years has exceeded 36%, while only half of the over 50 have stable employment. More generally, economic data as a whole are worrying. The data released by ISTAT show a real change in gross GDP over the years and, therefore, a stalemate in the regional economy, in contrast to the national trend. Be careful, the data do not consider the fact that the earthquake last year has made dramatic the situation of the Region, even if not yet recorded by the National Institute of Statistics. Of all the Regions, the Marche are among the last places for real GDP growth compared to the previous year. Following the trend of the economy between 2011 and 2013, the trend followed by the Marche shows itself sensitive to the Italian economic context, but recording worse levels than the national average, with further decline due to the last devastation of the earthquake. The same value as per capita GDP in Marche is lower than the national average and places the Region and its inhabitants in serious difficulty. We're talking about a region that was rich. In 2008 we had all other parameters. Currently the Marches grow less than the average Italian, only half. The fashion system, which has the most impact on the regional economy, is particularly suffering. I am referring to textiles, clothing, footwear, manufacturing and made in Italy, which has always been excellence and source of wealth given export abroad. The Region struggles to hook up the recovery. This has causes prior to the devastating earthquake that hit us, despite the Marche are a region called for the production of excellence. The impact of production on national GDP fell from more than 5% in 2000 to 1.5% in the phase of the economic crisis and now stands at an even lower value. The next trend was even worse, although - finally - very slight signs of recovery, thanks to the extreme industriousness of the people who populate it, begin to see each other. Consider that the Marches are characterized by the very high rate of entrepreneurship, being able to boast one enterprise about every ten inhabitants. The companies are 152,000 and the production districts are specialized in traditional manufacturing, from wood, furniture to the North, mechanics and appliances, precision instruments to the Centre, as well as footwear and food to the South. However, businesses have a wealth below the national average, just under EUR 25,000 of GDP per capita. The crisis has reduced industrial production by 20 points since 2008 to date, with an unemployment rate that has risen by more than 10% of the total, equal to more than one third of industrial-related employees. You can say a social tsunami, an economic earthquake, a total devastation. Of course, on the regional economy has also weighed the recent, unfortunate failure of Banca Marche, the first credit institution of the territory, and Banca Veneto, I add. Unfortunately, spending on research and development and the share of high-tech companies - the future of any country wanting to keep up with the times - is below the national average. The only positive note is represented by innovative start-ups, demonstrating that social humus is naturally entrepreneurial, if only the conditions were offered to make the best use of all the potential of the citizens workers and entrepreneurs in the Marche region. To resume the path of growth, it is necessary a structured plan of industrial policy that said times and methods, interventions and resources in order to resume a virtuous path of development in all the Regions of Italy, not only in the Mezzogiorno. This applies in particular also in the Marche region, for the benefit of the Region, which can be a driving force for growth, favouring the recovery of the whole country, through the enactment of norms able to realize programs based on effective governance mechanisms that combine national planning strategies with territorial specificities. This is necessary not so much and not only for reasons of shortsightedness and selfish bell towering, but because the Marches risk depopulation. The earthquake has brought out with greater force the weaknesses and the territorial criticalities already existing in the internal areas. It is clear, therefore, that in the absence of a rapid and valid proposal to relaunch, there is the risk of a rapid depopulation, of a relocation of the productive activities from the Marche. The earthquake has surely accelerated the processes of abandonment of the territory, with relative degradation of the productive and social fabric already in place in the internal areas. If all this is to be avoided, the future development of these areas must include a programming that overcomes the simple restoration of the existing, giving effective solution to the problems characteristic of the regional internal areas, supported by a series of specific measures for the revival of the activities of the territory. The hydrogeological balance of the Central Apennines, of the ecosystem, of the protection of biodiversity, therefore of our history and our future, made of production of excellence and - hopefully - of stable and hard-working populations, capable of attracting, thanks to the beauty of our territory, holidaying foreign citizens, able to become testimonial of our exceptional regional and national specificity. Honestly, I am surprised that a government that has pretended to have understood the real needs of our country, that is, the South of Europe, that has allowed to believe that it has understood the need of society and citizens to face serious interventions of structural support of the real economy, instead, when it then had the opportunity to issue a serious and effective measure in support of the South and its inhabitants, did not want seriously to analyze the reality in order to give a solution, thus denying itself the possibility to face and resolve the real problems existing. This government has limited itself to self-delegation, in order to redo the mistakes of the past, to re-propose the usual recipe chopped and retrieved, made of non-structural financing, insufficient, partial, preferring to re-propose what has already been done, and badly, given the constant failures of the measures adopted for the Mezzogiorno, and did not - I am surprised - have had the courage to dare, that is to propose a structural reform because it did not want - or did not know - dare, therefore make us get the necessary, make us get more. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. He's enlisted to speak Senator Tocci. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-07-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-865.ana.u35	Mr President, the definition of standard cost criteria per student is being examined by the House. However, in order to give Parliament the floor, it took the Constitutional Court, which annulled the decrees by which past governments had illegitimately taken over jurisdiction over the last four years. The rediscovered legislative power has allowed the text to be amended to correct at least the most serious errors of the calculation method. The first mistake is to calculate the needs of the students by excluding the counting of the students off course. The criterion disadvantages the southern universities which have a greater number of them. With the approval, however, of amendment 12.25 the calculation is extended to the outside of a year, because it is usually students who continue to attend the courses and often only have to complete the degree. Second point: by adding the needs of all universities, the total requirement of the university system is obtained, but it has never been used as a benchmark in the past years. So far, that is, the Ministry has applied the standard cost to the universities, but not to itself. It's not random. If the total needs are taken into account, the funding of the university system is expected to increase by 20 to 30%. Amendment 12.27 obliges the Government to certify the total needs, which will be the reference point every year in the discussion on the appropriations of the Stability Act. The third mistake is the most serious. The current calculation model fights with reality. Consider a simple example between two universities offering two courses: the first with one hundred students and the second with fifty students. The first university receives twice as much funding as the second, although both face the same costs because they have the same teachers. It is clear that the model hides a serious dimensional distortion without any justification for real costs. The algorithm determines, therefore, a strong penalty of the universities located in less attractive basins, less accessible or, however, at weaker demand, especially in the universities of the Mezzogiorno, in the inner areas of the Centre and even in some Provinces of the North, as in Liguria and Friuli. In the past four years many public resources have been distributed according to wrong and unfair criteria, and it is to be thought that they have contributed to the decrease of registrations, which is in fact greater in those parts of the country. These policies are unacceptable in a country like ours with a proportion of graduates equal to half the European average. If we really want to catch up, we need a leap forward, a growth in high training for the new generations. To this end, it is not enough for the university to grow in large cities, but it is necessary to raise the quality of the universities in the capillaries of the country, in the Province and among the most disadvantaged social strata. The correction of the algorithm is achieved by amendment 12.8 which determines the constancy of needs per number of students, between minimum and maximum values. This reflects the actual functioning of the system. Of course, the largest university will be funded more insofar as it will offer more courses, taking into account its higher real costs. Fourth error: when the number of students exceeds a maximum number, the decree on the accreditation of the courses requires to increase part of the number of teachers, but at the same time another decree, the one on turnover, can prevent the recruitment of the expected teachers. The university is in an embarrassing situation of not being able to hire the teacher for whom it received additional funding based on the standard cost. We are inside a typical paragraph in which rules that respond to different logics are clogged. Coexistence of conflictual algorithms leads to contradictions and provokes behaviors of non-positive universities for the system. The most negative effect is the proliferation of the closed number. In order to avoid the double constraint of having to increase teachers without being able to hire them, the university fixes the number closed to the level of the maximum number of students. This regulation would be unacceptable in the school system, which responds, instead, to the growth of the student population with a corresponding increase in the number of teachers. The same development dynamic should occur in the university if the Ministry consistently applies the logic of standard cost. We have tried to free the university from this absurd constraint by tabling amendment 12.28, which removes the Tremonti rule of the national turnover ceiling. Unfortunately, although the text had been agreed with the MIUR, it was rejected by the Budget Committee on the basis of the negative opinion of the MEF, which, in my opinion, lacks legal and accounting basis. I hope that the amendment can be reviewed in this House. With the introduction of the standard cost, in fact, the constraint of turnover no longer makes any sense. In the new scheme, in fact, university recruitment policy cannot in any way affect expenditure growth because it is forced to move within the budget allocated with the distribution of the ordinary funding fund. Thus, the turnover constraint is not used to prevent debt growth, it also prohibits recruitment to universities with their own resources, it distorts the logic of standard cost. Yet, this constraint has severely damaged the Italian university, keeping two generations of young scholars out of the door, and causing a pernicious aging of teaching. In conclusion, the PD Group's amendments, agreed with Minister Fedeli, make it possible to make important adjustments to the model applied in the past years. However, other unresolved problems remain: insufficient funding of total needs, imbalance at the expense of the humanistic - social area, lack of general revision of university funding rules. To this end, I had proposed to limit the current decree-law to the inevitable sanatorium of the past four years and to provide, instead, another bill to set up on new bases a model of financing for the university. It would also have been an opportunity to submit the model to a wide public debate, certainly obtaining improved contributions. Unfortunately, no agreement was reached on the proposal, and therefore it was necessary to proceed with punctual and partial correctives on the text of the decree-law, without a general revision of the law of financing the university. This requirement is now inescapable. Public discussion and general reform of the rules of the system are needed. For ten years university policy has been at the mercy of seemingly neutral algorithms, as inexorable as natural disasters, incomprehensible to non-professionals and inaccessible to public debate. The governments of the last ten years have used it to implement the worst recession in the history of the Italian university system, a sort of three-fold setback: about 20% less teachers, funds and students. No other section of the public administration has suffered a bloodshed of this magnitude and no other European country has responded to the crisis thus seriously weakening the structures of high training and research. In conclusion, I would like to express my satisfaction with the useful corrections introduced in the decree. In the coming months, however, we will have to do more to correct the entire university policy of the last decade. Enough with the blocking of recruitment and the closed numbers: the doors of the university must be opened to young people, researchers and students. It is in the primary interest of the country. [[Applause from Senator Santini]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-07-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-865.ana.u36	Senator Council is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-07-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-865.ana.u37	Mr President, we have asked ourselves a few questions about this measure. We asked ourselves a very simple question, that is, if everything is all right. The answer was perhaps yes and perhaps not. We wondered if we could do more, if we could give more. Probably. If you then think that problems can be solved by this decree-law, I personally believe not. I believe, however, that it has been an attempt to set a part of this country back on track and that in recent years of crisis it has seen the gap, not only with the North but with the rest of Europe, increasing more and more. The increase in this gap has also been dictated, perhaps, by the inability to put in conditions a part of this country to have those peculiarities that it has always had, that is to say the possibility to easily contend productions of excellence and exports of quality to other European countries. The Senate Act 2860 brings the conversion into law of the second decree-law concerning the Mezzogiorno issued only this year. If then we had to count all the measures that, in various ways, have followed in the last forty-fifty years then it would take a few days to put them in line. If, then, Mr President, we were to report on the results that these measures have achieved, then it would probably take a few minutes. The decree-law at our examination consists of 17 articles that concern exclusively the territories of the South, with various interventions in fields such as entrepreneurial and industrial development, agriculture, tax facilitation, employment, child illiteracy and university, investment, ILVA and social marginality due to the presence of immigrants. In this regard, the Government, in the law of stability, had announced for the South a river of resources, departing from Rome to the South. Now, with this provision, another river of money should leave to the South; it is a pity that the rivers are not enjoying good health lately. I have the feeling that the election campaign has begun for some time now and that we are trying to go along with the South with some funding, given by rain, to ensure a certain visibility. It is in fact that this decree-law will have the same result as many other measures, destined to fail due to inconsistency or structural issues, because they are not homogeneous, not fit with the real problems, since not all have had the opportunity to obtain the famous 80 euros and, above all, did not have them who really needed them. Crisis and recession have hit the entire world economy in recent years and have had a heavy impact on our economic system and even more on the southern regions, with a negative effect on employment and incomes. Youth unemployment in the South reaches peaks of 60% and it is intolerable that in this Senate we talk about anything less than the only thing that matters that is work. Perhaps it is urgent for the Government to launch an extraordinary plan for the work that has long been called for by several parties, which is indispensable in order to restart the entire economic system in a structural and lasting way. In Calabria there is about 59 percent youth unemployment, in Sicily 57 percent and Sardinia is just one point behind. Added to this is a picture in which the Mezzogiorno is increasingly dangerously far from the rest of the country and above all from Europe. In this regard, the policies adopted so far by the Government have certainly not helped to improve the situation in the South, leading to its serious redemption, and to guarantee a future for the new generations. Very simply, Mr President, there is no industrial plan, no tourism plan and no doubt no agriculture plan. We need serious plans that can bring an area of this country, which certainly has enormous potential, on par with other European areas. But you teach me that there is no potential. The revival for the South can only go through a reduction of taxes, but this must be valid for the whole country and cannot be simply limited to some areas, as provided for in Articles 4 and 5 of the decree-law, with which it is expected the establishment of special economic zones: a noble attempt to put these areas in a position to be able to re-launch economically. The special economic zones are aimed at encouraging the establishment of new businesses or enterprises, but a flat tax of 15% would be desirable throughout the country. As we said, there is no industrial plan, but former President Renzi had presented a masterplan for the South. The same leader of young industrialists asked to involve those in the South who actually worked and did business in the South in the project. The entrepreneurs themselves wished to be involved in order to bring their experience to a territory that they knew very well and asked for a project of strong impact and positive shock. None of this. And what about Article 11, which provides for urgent action to combat child education poverty and school dispersal in the Mezzogiorno? It's a beautiful title. The article is very well written, but it is little to identify areas of social exclusion to predict and promote projects, other tables and concerts that are useless and that will probably lead nowhere. All this without any resources. Mr President, I had stayed in Industry 2.0. We've jumped to Industry 3.0, which I haven't heard from, probably because of me, and we're now version 4.0. I realized that we probably only use even numbers: the next version will be 6.0. I probably missed a few passages because of me. Mr Calenda told it well in the Commission and also in all the meetings he had with the industrialists: of course we did not solve any major problems. Mr President, I would never have thought that the economic growth of the Mezzogiorno could go as far as zeroing hazardous waste by means of an amendment. All of this is covered by Article 9 of the measure under consideration, which magically drives violets and daisies out of the waste, which were considered dangerous just before. Perhaps in this article we try to bypass all those promises, which in the last twenty years have been made on the restoration of the territory, especially in the South and in particular in the so-called land of fires. Perhaps we should remember the annual report on mafias and environmental crimes. Perhaps the development of the South passes, instead, from a serious attention to these enormous problems, which certainly harm agriculture, health and tourism, in full contrast, in terms of results, with Articles 2 and 3 of the decree-law in question. As I said earlier, I have probably missed something about the industrial issue, but perhaps the South should focus on other issues, perhaps related to the ability to do agriculture and tourism. The one-month extension of the facilitated measure, introduced by the Stability Act for 2017, in the field of investments in high-tech tangible and instrumental goods, could in fact be a good thing, except that the majority of these investments are certainly not made in the South. There could certainly be some articles on the ILVA, an eternal unresolved problem, which now counts more commissioners than workers. We hope that the money seized from the Riva family will actually be used to pay creditors and for environmental reclamation. Mr President, I would also like to mention the absence of an article on immigrants and immigration in this measure. Article 16 concerns certain degraded areas, with the greatest concentration of foreigners. One or more special government commissioners are expected to be appointed as prefects, but they will do so free of charge. Their task - heard - will be to promote the gradual integration of foreign citizens regularly present in the territories concerned. I could also name some of the province of Bergamo, such as the area of Castione della Presolana and that of other municipalities, such as Botta di Sedrina, where a few hundred have arrived these days. But then, Mr President, unlike the article I mentioned earlier, EUR 150 million was found for this measure only for 2018: power of reception. Mr President, let us also look at the issue of the exploitation of uncultivated land and unused buildings, and also at the creation of special economic zones, in order to increase employment in the South. However, I believe in my heart that the idea of public employment should be somewhat abandoned and should become less attractive and that society should be well oriented to understand that the main problem remains work, seriously, especially for women and young people. The solution is compactness and we need seriousness: there can be no responsibility without power and there can be no power without responsibility. I believe that our Members in the South will certainly have to take advantage of this. The positive approach to free enterprise and production must be extremely serious. Mr President, sometimes we forget about production and think we can import it from other parts of the world. The departure or restart cannot fail to incorporate the idea that we must move from words to deeds, from commercial instruments, such as this decree-law, to structural interventions. Enough with the Land of Fires, with the water crises and with everything that makes the South a caricature of itself. Mr President, there are never any examples, but we are always talking about a Lombardy that is the locomotive of the rest of the country. This is probably an irrefutable thesis, but I think it can no longer function as a metaphor: a locomotive drives a train in which all the wagons proceed at the same speed. True, they get towed, but they have the same speed as the locomotive. This does not happen because, however, if there is no reversal of trend in this country you risk that the wagons will remain unlocked. Then I appeal to the South because they are true the sayings "helped" that God helps you and "wider to men of good will" that enable the South to have a locomotive of its own that makes young people the real protagonists, that helps them to think that you can make a business in absolute legality, standing out from issues related to relationships with mafia and so on. This decree-law, probably, discontented a little 'all: those of the North complain because they did not have some attention; those of the Center already complained before and, therefore, little has changed, and they certainly complain also those of the South, that perhaps they expected something more from the economic aspect, that was not really satisfied. President, I'm closing with a nail. It is beautiful to see written that the goal is to stay in the South because the real luck is to stay at home and live in the land where you were born without having to play force emigrate for work and necessity. If this decree-law thought of achieving such a result, I think it's a warm cloth. If the idea is that it can trigger a mechanism for the South to make a sort of self-criticism and take the example of some well-functioning territories in the country, then it can achieve a result ranging from five to five and a half, as a form of encouragement. President. - We have been critical of the measure. The 17 articles have not always fully understood the needs of the South and enable this Group not to be positive, not on the attention to the South, but on the measure that we even consider insufficient to solve extremely serious problems. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-07-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-865.ana.u38	She's enlisted to speak Senator Ricchiuti. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-07-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-865.ana.u39	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Decree-Law No 91 of 2017, laying down provisions for economic growth in the Mezzogiorno, contains certain social measures, but lacks a design strategy for the Mezzogiorno. Firstly, there is a great deal of concern about the need to respect the principles relating to the characteristics and content of the emergency measures laid down in Article 77 of the Constitution and the Constitutional Implementation Act No 400 of 1988. As is well known, these principles have been reiterated in several judgments of the Constitutional Court. In particular, in judgment no. 22 of 2012 the Court noted that the inclusion of heterogeneous norms with respect to the object or the purposes of the decree-law breaks the logical-legal link between the assessment made by the Government of the urgency of the provision and the provisional measures by force of law. Assessment carried out under its own responsibility and subject to the judgment of the Head of State at the time of issue. The Court concludes that the necessary homogeneity of the decree-law must also be observed by the law of conversion, and reserves the right to annul the provisions introduced by Parliament in breach of the above criteria. In some cases in the text we see a real assault on diligence, in an old way. The proposal that tries to save the Romanesque National Academy of Santa Cecilia, the amendment that protects the working conditions of truck drivers, the derogations for the formation of classes of pupils for schools damaged by the earthquake in Central Italy, beyond the merit, that can be even shared, what do they have to do with the development of the Mezzogiorno? There are also many oddities: in the matter of contrast to forest fires, instead of introducing a questionable provision, that news an article of the penal code inside a bill of conversion of a decree-law, why did not choose to make operational the law n. 353 of 2000 that, in order to strengthen the prevention, introduced the land register of areas crossed by fire, in order to be able to exclude these areas from any subsequent speculative project? Yet today, seventeen years later, the municipalities are far behind, with the consequence that the constraints of the case cannot be applied. I also wonder if we can introduce with absolute lightness a rule that prolongs the stay in service of the judges of the Court of Auditors that can be placed in quiescence by 31 December 2018. In order to be on the merit of the measure, the text we are examining proposes some warm cloths, but no structural and incisive intervention: in short, we could say that it does not do damage, but it is fresh water. Of course, we can argue that the identification of the measure in favour of young people in the Mezzogiorno called "Resto al Sud" contains acceptable proposals, as well as the approval in 5th Commission of an amendment of the Article 1-MDP Group that for this specific forecast raises to 50,000 euros the provision of funding for each individual applicant who intends to form an individual enterprise or company. However, we continue to follow a non-solving line and so we even witness paradoxical events, such as the introduction of the rule that intervenes on agricultural consortia, with a genuine forcing that harms the principle of free competition, creating confusion between profit and mutual purpose, as supported by various associations in the sector. I shall now go on to outline some of the guidelines that could be adopted. These are just examples of a different way of thinking about the Mezzogiorno. First of all, it is necessary to unite companies and technology on the basis of an established design: only through institutional direction can small and medium-sized enterprises be brought together with technology. It must be borne in mind that small enterprises are often unable to express and formulate the demand for innovation which is appropriate to them (which remains therefore unexpressed), although they generally feel the need for innovation. More than incentives, aid to small and medium-sized enterprises in the field of the progress of work processes requires political and institutional leadership that irradiates in various directions. It is necessary to create an interface between research and enterprise and to focus on intermediate figures of centres and professionals who know the problems of production and know how to dialogue with the world of applied research, in order to adapt it to any specific case, translating it into projects. Companies must easily identify their dedicated interlocutor or find a private offer of such services on the market and be encouraged to do so. The regions are the first to be led to dedicate their own institutions to this task. Good initiatives in this sense already exist but there are few, mainly concentrated in the North and generally belong to the chambers of commerce. The government's study of providing tax relief for the use of small and medium-sized digital angels (experts for the technology rating) is better than nothing, but the need to conceive a governance of processes, which are not triggered by themselves, goes even further. We need at least six or seven applied research centres in the country at the service of companies and as an interface of professional graduations. We can start with the Mezzogiorno in order to establish them. Another key aspect is logistics. Logistics and transport are also connected with the southern issue. After the doubling of the Suez Canal, the South of Italy should propose itself as attractor of the world-wide traffics that transit in the Mediterranean (20 percent of all the world-wide traffics via ship) and connect to the North with the National Central Network (multimedia). Today the South is isolated from the most important directions. High speed should reach Reggio Calabria and include Naples-Bari-Taranto (which may have a first funding in 2017). For what regards the crocieristico traffic (for which we are second in Europe, with 10 million presences), the Regions should be helped with co-financings to connect the potenziamento of the harbour system (and of the connections with the ports) to the offer is tourist that productive of the territory behind, in an integrated approach. Regions should be encouraged so that port ports are transformed into tourist attractions and become an integral part of the social life of the urban fabric, with recreational, sports and commercial facilities and with landscape regeneration. The national and regional rail network should be unique and integrated, capable of meeting relevant interconnections. Then there is the question of business networks. They can range from the aggregation for the development of the territory to the pooling of after-sales services in some part of the world or an export manager, to the joint development of engineering projects. We need to focus more decisively on these aggregations: the 122 million spent over the last five years on these types of projects is not enough. National efforts to detax what companies allocate to the network heritage for joint initiatives (only 9 million for digital craft networks and 8 million for tourism business networks, with restrictive clauses) should be resumed. As for the university, it has focused on sporadic excellences, in a medium framework not excellent, rather than raising the average general quality, with the result of producing a very strong differentiation between locations, which is also territorial. This has penalized the universities of the South. There was no commitment to universities, whose teachers rose from 62,000 in 2008 to 50,000 in 2016, while students rose from over 320,000 to less than 260,000, with a 20 - percent cut in funds. There is also a migration of students from the South to the North, not always justified by the quality of the training offer, but only by the expectation of better employment opportunities. Assigning funds only to 28 percent on the basis of enrolments and the rest on a premium basis means penalising universities in the South. The university was left to itself and without training demand scenarios rather than making it an element of the country's growth. Many mechanisms are perverse: allocation of funds, selection and replacement of teachers, evaluation processes, absence of rebalancing plans based on pacts and checks (indispensable for the South), types of training offers, organization of research, competition instead of collaboration. We need a review. First-level degrees did not achieve the goal, if 55 percent of graduates continue for master's degrees (five years average for three-year degrees, with 1/3 with low grades, less than 90). Five years after graduation, only 50 percent fully use the skills they have acquired. The "three plus two" should therefore be revised, with professionalising degrees not subject to specialized graduation courses. Short courses of study, which are more directly linked to high-level technical professions, are very weak - apart from nursing professions. Professional degrees with one year of theory, one of laboratory and one of training at work are needed; they must be established and incardinated in universities. In Germany they produce between 30 and 40% of graduates. The Rector's Conference is putting the problem, our political class is not. Without applied technical education, it will be difficult for our industry to thrive. High-training apprenticeships do not take off. We cannot leave the problem to the higher technical institutes, which are only 74. Governance of these processes is needed, especially in the South. The right to study requires a unitary direction to coordinate regional and national efforts (the supplementary fund has been reduced after 2008 and is only now uphill), avoiding inequalities that ensure that 90% of eligible people receive the grant in the North and 50% in the South. It would be necessary to absorb into public responsibility what falls on universities in terms of lower revenue for relief from tuition fees. Investment in university residences needs to be increased. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, even if the very latest figure shows a recovery in the South like that of the whole of Italy, the effects of austerity since 2008 must be taken into account, which have been deeper in the South due to a decrease in income, for employment, for a decrease in public investment, for disinvestment in universities, for a decrease in public services. Emigration has resumed, affecting 70% of young people and 25% of graduates. The improvement is in agriculture and construction, but industry continues to lose ground. There is, I said, no idea of development and coherent response to the crisis. The masterplan for the South, within which pacts are signed with the Regions and with some cities of the South, leads to the fragmentation of the projects. This is a survey of existing resources, of the list of measures to be implemented, with date and expenditure. It must be appreciated that these pacts are there and are a step forward, but in essence we are only faced with an attempt to speed up the use of the Structural Funds and a substantial re-establishment of dormant projects, on which the resources already allocated to the South flow in a late and partial way. There are no additional commitments compared to the ordinary public expenditure (assignment of 13.3 billion decided by the CIPE on the Development and Cohesion Fund, which allocated 44 billion for the South for the period 2014-20; the others will be unlocked by CIPE decisions only from 2018). The design of the funds remains full of duplication. In conclusion, it is an illusion to continue to think that development can rise from the bottom up. We need an entity that produces system coordination, that organizes capital and private and public subjects, interacts with the territories, carries out policies of attraction of the investments linked to the uniqueness of the same, interacts with the technological and industrial districts and with the cities; above all, that sets the priorities. Not a subject who manages money, but who coordinates and addresses, trying to accompany change. Moreover, in the absence of public investment to attack the conditions of underdevelopment of entire areas of the South, creating stable and skilled employment, the serious risk is that, after some evocative slogans, the results will continue to be insufficient. [[Applause from the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and ……]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-07-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-865.ana.u40	I shall refer the following to another session of the draft law.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-07-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-865.ana.u41	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-07-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-865.ana.u42	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-07-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-865.ana.u43	DI GIACOMO (FL (Id-PL, PLI)). Mr President, on yesterday's day the entire territory of the lower Molise was brought to its knees by a devastating fire that caused the closure of the A1 motorway in the two directions of road, the Adriatic railway line and the 87 highway, breaking the country in two for the whole afternoon of yesterday's day. All afternoon, the institutions were absent. The site of the Region did not give any statement on the facts. The Civil Protection website, which was stopped on July 7 of this year, was only updated in the late evening of yesterday. Virtually, an entire territory of the Molise Region was left alone, without the institutions intervening. In this way, the coordination of operations has failed, with serious delays in the shutdown of the fire and with serious risks to the population. The houses in the Municipality of Termoli and in the Municipality of Guglionesi have been lapped by the flames and the factory of FIAT has even been evacuated, where 4,500 people work. This complaint also applies to reminding this Presidency that on 25 June 2014 I submitted a question on the dismemberment of the Civil Protection of the Molise Region, Act 4-02393, to which I have not yet been answered. I ask this Presidency to take action so that the Government can answer my question.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-07-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-865.ana.u44	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-07-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-865.ana.u45	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-07-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-865.ana.u46	WOMAN (M5S). Mr President, ten years ago a large fire devastated Peschici, destroying hundreds of hectares of forest, with a dramatic balance of three deaths and dozens of injuries. Yesterday, again in Peschici, in the Gargano National Park, in the bay of Manaccora, the fire has returned to sow destruction. So many houses are affected by the fire. Due to the flames, the section of the highway 89, in Mandrione, was also blocked to avoid further inconveniences for drivers in transit. As if that were not enough, the fire continued its work of devastation throughout the night, right between Peschici and Vieste, pulverizing the surrounding Mediterranean maquis, with incalculable damage to the ecosystem and the environment. The Gargano, therefore, returns to be the scenery of events caused by arsonists and unscrupulous people, after having already been the victim, in the past, of other fires. I also remember the wound, still open, relating to September 2014, when weather phenomena and alluvial events of particular gravity have caused serious damage: it is shameful that for an event dating from three years ago we are still asking what is the state of compliance of the planned interventions and of progress and shipbuilding of the works. I would therefore like to take this opportunity to ask the answer to Question 4-07533, tabled by myself and other colleagues on 17 May 2017. I would also like to take this opportunity to thank all those people who have been busy in the Gargano area these days to avoid the worst: I am talking about volunteers, citizens, Forces of Order and Firefighters, who have been truly commendable. I don't know if you know the area in question. It is a beautiful area, which is part of a National Park and must be absolutely protected. I take the opportunity to say that the Gargano must not be left alone, but must be protected and supported by the State. Above all, it is necessary to prevent these episodes from happening again and that the Government - I am referring above all to the territorial one - avoids the laxity to which it prefers to yield. I do not want to think about the facts that have occurred in Sicily and Campania. I don't want to get to that point. However, even Puglia is going through a season that really can't stand anymore. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-07-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-865.ana.u47	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-07-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-865.ana.u48	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-07-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-865.ana.u49	DIVINE (LN-Aut). Mr President, I would like to take advantage of the presence of a Minister and a Undersecretary in order to point out an issue that literally concerns the entire population of Trentino. About twenty years ago, the European Union had proposed to the Ministry of the Environment the introduction of the bear in some territories, the famous Life Ursus project and were introduced, in several sequences, pairs of bears from Slovenia. Now the problem becomes serious: today there are people in the hospital in quite serious conditions. In the last three years there have been four episodes that have resulted in important injuries and hospital admissions: in Pinzolo, near the cable cars; in 2015 in the woods of Zambana, north of Trento; again in 2015, in Cadine, there was a serious episode that involved a person who was walking with his dog; three days ago it happened more or less in the same areas, in Terlago, where a person is alive by miracle, with injuries to his legs and arms, but he got away because he had a dog, who disturbed the bear and therefore the person managed to get free. Who are they and where are they? Not all bears have a radiocollar, so you can't even locate them. Let's say this project hasn't been well managed. We have 27 forestry agents who follow the project, but cannot guarantee a minimum of peace for the population, so we have to say that this is not good. What do we ask the Environment Minister? To find a solution, in tune with the Autonomous Province of Trento, which has some hands tied. It must be established that now bears - which are undoubtedly overnumbered - are a problem of public safety. They're not furry puppies, as you'd like to see. Yes, they are cute, no one says you have to kill all the animals in Trentino, but at this point it is necessary to contain the numbers. Since the disciplinary that we have is not a maximum number, the Ministry must set a limit. We know that today 60 are sure, but, not having all the radiocollar because they forgive him or for who knows what motivation, they will certainly be more, probably 70-80. There is, then, an economic problem: since these bears reach the streets, tourists themselves do not go to areas where they can endanger their lives and people living in Trentino are changing lifestyles. The undersigned spoke to an elderly person, a grandfather, who has two little houses in the mountains: in one he lives, in the other his son with his grandchildren. Well, you have seen the bear passing through the lawn that divides the two houses where the grandchildren play. Now neither the grandfather nor the son with the grandchildren go to that area anymore: we are undoubtedly changing habits of life. Minister, we ask you to make contact with the Autonomous Province of Trento and find a solution, because this state of affairs is no longer sustainable. You say this animal is beautiful, we say it is beautiful, but when the number of specimens surpasses the possibility and the ability to manage them there is a problem of public safety. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-07-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-865.ana.u50	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-07-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-865.ana.u51	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-07-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-865.ana.u52	ANGIONES (PD). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, my speech today, at the end of the sitting, continues the relay through which, together with many senators and senators, for more than a year now, we have decided to remember every woman who is killed at the hands of a man to whom she has been linked by a sentimental relationship. We will continue with this relay until it is necessary to remind Parliament and our country of the urgent need to stem violence against women. In just over a month, two other crimes have been added to the very long chain. I am referring to Erika Preti, a 28-year-old girl from Pralungo, in the province of Biella, who was killed on 11 June last while on holiday in Sardinia with her boyfriend, who, after having charged for weeks the responsibility of a fantomatic robber, only two days ago confessed to being the real author of the crime. What makes Erika's disappearance even more dramatic, if possible, is the motivation that would unleash the boyfriend's murderous intention, that is to have been reprimanded by her for bread crumbs on the table. And again, on July 24, in Musile di Piave, in the province of Venice, Maria Archetta Mennella, 38 years old, was stabbed by her ex-husband, among other things generously hosted in the apartment of her ex-wife and was killed with some heinous ways to say the least. Finally, just yesterday, in Castellammare there was a feminicide luckily only attempted: a meeting between two former boyfriends, who had to be peacemaker and that ended with the man who brutally invested in his car the woman who, even if in serious condition, managed to call for help directly. With these episodes, up to 71 women we remembered in this relay, started in 2016. The data presented by ISTAT at the end of March on gender violence confirm that feminicide is only the most extreme conclusion of a widespread problem of male violence against women and those data are impressive: 8 million women would be victims of psychological violence, 4.5 million women who have suffered degrading and humiliating sexual acts throughout their lives, reports suffered with violence, abuse, attempts to rape and rape. Mr President, with these testimonials we strongly reiterate our appeal, an appeal first of all to the Government and in particular to the Undersecretary with delegation to equal opportunities: the directing booth monitors the application, the merits and the limits of Law No 119 of 2013 and gives full and effective implementation to the Extraordinary Action Plan against sexual and gender violence. We appeal also to the media and to the whole of our country: to the media we say that we stop justifying, even with the sometimes condescending language, the murderers, because we risk to blame women who instead of violence are victims and to the whole country we say that we cannot accept from any point of view that in the last year alone there are a hundred women killed in our country with modalities and motivations similar to those we have mentioned. In conclusion, it seems appropriate to quote a phrase that Maria Archetta Mennella wrote on a social media a few days before she was killed, a phrase that seems to me a warning to the quality of gender relationships: "They scare me" - the woman wrote - "men who do not understand that loving someone means loving his freedom." [[Applause from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-07-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-865.ana.u53	The motions, questions and questions received by the Presidency will be published in Annex B to today's report.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-07-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-865.ana.u54	The Senate will meet again tomorrow, Wednesday, July 26, in two public sessions, the first at 9.30 a.m. and the second at 16.30, with the following agenda: (See agenda) The sitting was closed at 8.04 p.m.
