ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-827.ana.u1	The sitting was opened at 16.31 a.m. The Minutes shall be read. Mr Petraglia, Secretary, read the Minutes of the afternoon sitting on 17 May. PRESIDENT. - The debate is Since there were no comments, the Minutes were approved.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-827.ana.u2	The list of senators on leave and absent on assignment received from the Senate, as well as further communications to the Assembly, will be published in Annex B to today's Minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-827.ana.u3	I would warn you that qualified votes can be taken in the course of today's sitting by electronic means. Therefore, from this moment the period of 20 minutes from the notice provided for in Article 119, paragraph 1, of the Regulation (at 16,34 hours) begins.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-827.ana.u4	[[He stands up and with her the whole Assembly]] Ladies and gentlemen, as you know, in the late evening of yesterday the nightmare of fundamentalist terrorism has returned to materialize in Europe, with a barbaric, terrible attack perpetrated in Manchester, during a concert in which many teenagers and young people participated; a concert by an artist, Ariana Grande, who is loved by the youngest, in the United Kingdom as well as in Italy and in other Western countries; therefore, an attack that purposefully aimed at striking innocent young people at the moment of their carelessness. The provisional budget is 22 dead and about 60 injured and, among the victims, there are also many children. As President Grasso said a few hours ago in Palermo, while today the country is engaged in the memory of Giovanni Falcone and Paolo Borsellino, on a day of pain but above all of hope and union, it really strikes as a fist the news of the inhuman massacre of helpless people in Manchester. However, dismay cannot give way to resignation and must, therefore, be reaffirmed the commitment of all institutions, at national and international level, to effectively prevent and severely combat terrorist aggression, while respecting the values of freedom and coexistence which are the foundations of our societies. "We will not give in to the blackmail of fear," said our President Grasso this morning, recalling how Italy fought terrorism and the mafia with the instruments of law and democracy for decades. And - I say - we will be able to do so - I am convinced - even with the new terrorists. We are sure that the next meeting of the G7, chaired by Italy, will relaunch, strengthen and make even more concrete the common commitment against fundamentalist terrorism. In expressing the deep condolences of the Senate of the Republic for the pain of the British people and the sincere closeness to the families of the young victims and to the many injured, I invite the Assembly to observe a minute's recollection. [[The Assembly observed a minute's silence.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-827.ana.u5	Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to inform you that the Budget Committee has not delivered its opinion on the draft law on the recognition of the Italian sign language and the related amendments and, therefore, it is not possible to proceed in the debate. Furthermore, the Commission has not concluded the examination of and related to draft law No 2134. We shall therefore proceed to the next item on the agenda.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-827.ana.u6	The next item is the debate on draft law No 1641, already approved by the House of Deputies in a text resulting from the unification of the draft own-initiative law of the Members of Parliament, Mr Cirielli and Mr Totaro; Catanoso Genoese; Mongiello and others; Oliverio and others; Russo and Faenzi; Caon and others; Catanoso Genoese. The rapporteur, Senator Scoma, asked for permission to carry out the oral report. No comments were made and the request was accepted. I therefore call the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-827.ana.u7	Madam President, representative of the Government, ladies and gentlemen, the draft law before us, approved by the House of Deputies at the conclusion of a process which has dealt with various initiatives converging on the same objective, is intended to protect and enhance certain agricultural areas which are of particular economic, cultural and environmental importance, cultivated historically with citrus fruits. [[Brusio.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-827.ana.u8	Colleagues, I see a certain ferment and I understand that the day is special. However, we allow the rapporteur to carry out his report.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-827.ana.u9	Please, Senator Scoma. SCOMA, rapporteur. These agricultural areas are considered of considerable interest for their historical, landscape and conservation value of the rural territory. It seems necessary to remember that the citrus cultivation over the centuries has been characterized by a progressive growth, such as to shape and condition the society, the territory and the environment where it was practiced, becoming an integral part of the territory and the popular traditions for extensive areas. However, it must also be stressed that a sector that was a source of well-being has suffered from the 1960s an increasing loss of importance due to the changed commercial, social and cultural conditions, to be traced back to several factors, including increasing production costs, the reduced size of companies and increasingly strong and aggressive foreign competition. The result of this process has resulted in a state of crisis aggravated in recent decades, which has led to the abandonment of those areas where the conditions of cultivability were more difficult and onerous, with consequent negative impact on both the landscape and the protection of the territory and with reflections also with reference to the abandonment of those traditions that have been a strong point of Italian culture. And it is for the protection of those areas that are addressed the provisions of this bill, aimed at countering the consequences of crop abandonment in those particular areas through promotion and support actions in favour of producers. It seems important to recall that the measure under consideration is the result of a long work of inquiry that derives from previous legislation, with particular reference to the initiatives of the last legislature, demonstrating how the importance of the problem and the need for intervention are felt by the various political and parliamentary forces. Moving on to the illustration of the text, the bill consists of eight articles. Article 1 outlines the aims, with reference to the particular value of citrus groves and to the close connection of the product with the peculiarities of the territory of origin. Article 2, dealing with the discipline of interventions, refers to a ministerial decree for the identification of the territories where the characteristic citrus groves are located, the definition of the interventions admitted to the contributions and the determination of the percentage of the contributions payable. Article 3 provides for the granting of a contribution to cover part of the costs of recovering and safeguarding citrus fruit, whereas Article 4 provides for a single contribution to cover part of the costs of supporting the restoration of abandoned citrus fruit. Article 5 regulates the implementation of interventions, requiring compliance with the provisions contained in the Ministerial Decree referred to in Article 2 and the relevant legislation in force, as well as with European legislation. For the allocation of these contributions, Article 6 establishes the Fund to safeguard characteristic citrus groves, with a budget, unlike the original text, of EUR 3 million for 2017. The original article 7 on protection consortia is repealed, while the current text regulates the procedure for the allocation of contributions, which sees the involvement of the Regions, which will have to determine the amount of resources to be allocated to recovery and restoration interventions, the modalities and times for the submission of applications, the selection of projects and the formation of rankings on the basis of the investigation carried out by the competent municipality. Finally, Article 8 lays down the provisions on the system of checks and penalties, entrusting the definition of the modalities and the conduct to the Regions and providing for administrative pecuniary sanctions to owners and conductors, in the case of both partial implementation of the actions indicated, and non-implementation of the same. The bill is accompanied by the examination of petition No. 380, which calls for a commitment to defend the production of oranges, especially in the South. I therefore call for rapid approval to enable the appropriations to be used in the current year.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-827.ana.u10	I declare the general discussion open. Senator Cantini is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-827.ana.u11	Madam President, Senators and Senators, the bill No 1641, which today arrives in this House, after several attempts in previous legislation, is a text which aims to support and protect a sector, that of citrus cultivation, which is very important for the economy and the maintenance of our territory, especially in areas particularly suited to this type of tree farming. Protecting and enhancing the agricultural areas of our country today more than ever has become an opportunity for many of our young people who, through new forms of farming, contribute to the recovery of the territory. Agriculture, in recent years, is also an accomplice to the economic crisis, has been abandoned after being exploited intensively. With this in mind, the measure, which aims to promote restoration, recovery, maintenance and safeguard of characteristic citrus groves in areas subject to hydrogeological failure or having particular landscape, historical and environmental value, represents an aid and a stimulus to those who today in Italy have decided to return to reinvest in the land, recovering abandoned crops in marginal areas. The present legislature, moreover, has also been characterized by having wagered on agriculture as a key sector for the economic recovery of the country and of employment. The measure under consideration is only the last of an important series of laws passed by Parliament to protect and support agriculture, especially when it meets other sectors, such as culture, tourism and food and wine, which in Italy are one with the landscape cultivated by man over the centuries. The history of citrus fruits has gone hand in hand with that of man, covering over time a strong meaning in the cultural, economic, social, mythological and religious aspects. Oranges and lemons are among the best known and appreciated fruits in the world, both for the easier adaptability to the different climate-environmental conditions and for the versatility of the use in the food and non-food sectors. There are 5,000 varieties of citrus fruits in the world, but we can say without any fear of denial that in Italy we find the highest expression of the quality of this crop. The citrus sector, despite the very high quality of the product, has undergone a profound economic and structural crisis in recent years, leading to a gradual abandonment of the crops and, consequently, to depopulation and impoverishment of our agricultural landscape. If, on the one hand, the measure we are going to vote on today in this House is aimed at recovering and protecting citrus groves, on the other hand, it relates - in my view correctly - crops with the landscape-cultural value of the territories where they are located. The Italian landscape is the result of many years of history in which different civilizations and cultures have succeeded and intersected in its structure constituting its cultural identity. What distinguishes the complexity of the historical characteristics of the Italian landscape compared to other European landscapes are the multiplicity and stratification of the footprints that the many civilizations that have followed have left in the territory, in the forms of woods and countryside. Civilizations have made a huge contribution to our countryside in terms of plant species, cultivation techniques, methods of water collection and use, constructions and artifacts, so much so that the Italian landscape assumes a unique historical value and very particular compared to other European and world countries. A clear example of this are the terraces of the Amalfi coast. In certain regions of Italy, the cultivation of citrus fruits, as well as representing a fundamental source of income for farmers, has produced landscapes so unique as to represent the icons of beauty of our country. Just think of the lemons of Garda, the Amalfi coast or the coastal areas of Calabria and Sicily. These unique landscapes also affected Goethe. In a quotation from his travel diary to Italy he said: You know the land where the lemons blossom and between black fronds, the orange trees burn. The landscape is so unique and important that it brings added value and characterization to citrus productions both in quality and in recognizability of the product in the world. We can see the importance and centrality of the landscape within the measure through the reference to the European Convention on the Landscape, Article 1. The aim of the European Landscape Convention is to promote the protection, management and planning of European landscapes and to promote European cooperation. The Convention was the first international treaty exclusively devoted to the European landscape as a whole. In addition to providing a uniform and shared definition of landscape, the Convention provides for the recognition and protection measures which Member States undertake to implement. It provides for the protection of all landscapes, regardless of pre-established canons of beauty or originality and expressly includes all types of landscape. The high value of our landscape and the high quality of citrus products have not, however, been enough to counteract the progressive abandonment of the countryside that we have witnessed in recent years. The abandonment of the countryside in areas particularly suited to the cultivation of citrus fruits has produced not only a loss in economic terms, but also a impoverishment of the landscape and a consequent less prevention from the point of view of failure. In recent decades it is evident that changing climatic conditions has accentuated the occurrence of hydrogeological failure. We cannot, however, fail to note that the abandonment of marginal areas has led to the occurrence of problems where they have never occurred when agricultural activity was present. For this reason it becomes strategic, for a country like ours, to do prevention through the maintenance of activities in those places particularly fragile from the environmental point of view. It is a landscape, the Italian one, so diversified that it needs a constant and punctual garrison that only the quality agricultural activity can guarantee. And for this reason it becomes important, even in terms of the prevention of hydrogeological failure, to promote and encourage the return to agriculture in marginal areas. In this sense, legislative instruments such as the one under consideration, which give citrus growers a role to serve the environmental protection indispensable for certain areas of the country. In my opinion, therefore, devices such as this come well, which support both the recovery of historic citrus groves, and the new and old farmers, who are committed through their work to maintaining and preserving the Italian citrus landscape. [[Applause from the PD Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-827.ana.u12	She is registered to speak Senator Fasiolo. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-827.ana.u13	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, the measure that we are going to adopt - as has already been well mentioned in the previous speech - has an ancient genesis, which dates back to two legislatures ago. However, the importance and the need to conclude its approval remains unchanged, because we know how much the agricultural sector has suffered from serious difficulties that have persisted for many, too many years. I come from a region with a winemaking vocation, from a territory that produces excellence and that has been able to question itself since the seventies-eighties, preferring to an extensive production an intensive production, quantitatively reduced and selected, which wanted to look at the quality of production instead of the quantity. At first it might seem a heresy to give up production numbers, but time has given reason to that generation of young farmers who have been able to make a courageous choice and, in many ways, in opposition to the way of thinking of their parents and grandparents. It is an example of a happy choice. However, there are conditions - the term must be understood literally - that go beyond the will of the operators and do not allow to choose, do not allow other roads. These conditions are dictated by nature, by the morphology of the territory: for us the karst ridge, which runs along the sea to Trieste and has morphological characteristics similar to those of the land destined to citrus grove, which is the subject of discussion today. Again we are in a situation where the use of machinery is inhibited by the morphology of the ground, which involves manual processing. Here too we are talking about intensive and non-extensive plantings. Also in this case we are in the presence of dry walls that need continuous maintenance. Here again we are talking about areas subject to hydrogeological risk, which constitute a historic heritage in the production of indigenous crops with virtually unchanged methods over time. It is the island territory of the coastal bands of particular landscape value at hydrogeological risk. This preamble means that the measures contained in today's draft law - and I am referring in particular to the allocation of contributions in support of those who challenge the time and the laws of free competition of the markets - are indispensable in order to safeguard both the territory, understood as heritage, from a degradation and a progressive abandonment, and the agro-food excellences that distinguish, here as elsewhere, our country on a global level. With all due respect for European regulation, which we know is essential and to which we stressed in the measure the alignment on the basis of the principle contained in Article 1 ('Finalities') there are no justifications if, in order to standardise the market and its rules, we risk destroying the peculiarities that distinguish each country of the great European family. Therefore, rules are indispensable for the protection, recovery and protection of the precious citrus groves characteristic of the territories that are of particular value for the country. These are the terraces of our coastal areas, such as the Amalfi Coast, Gargano, the coasts of Calabria and Sicily, Garda, where the cultivation of citrus groves is not only a fundamental source of income, but also an important factor of environmental protection, preservation of the integrity of the territories and coastal natural balance. The measure in our examination favours the conservation of traditional landscapes and the protection of biodiversity in order to enhance a product with unique characteristics. The objective of the legislative intervention is therefore to support one of the characteristic crops of our coastal and island territory in the Mediterranean, re-launching the Italian citrus cultivation for years in a state of deep crisis; crisis determined by unsustainable production costs due to the presence of small companies, little connected with each other and with the processing and distribution industry; with obsolete promotion and marketing strategies, which no longer hold up to the increasing foreign competition. The harshness of the places not accessible by mechanical means - as I have already said - determines the use of manual work which today is inexpensive and tiring both for crops and for transport. From this comes the abandonment by the farmers, already highlighted by the colleague who preceded me; farmers few and elderly who still practice so-called heroic agriculture, with the degradation of the social fabric and the loss of a job become over time a fundamental part of the culture of those territories, but also with the progressive alteration of the landscape. In fact, the presence of uncultivated areas and land-use damage, deprived of the maintenance of the farmers, is increasingly visible and hydrogeological phenomena are increasingly visible, due to the loss of the function of dry walls that the terraces carry out in the containment work of both water and land. As I said initially for the karst ridge, we must stop the slow and inexorable degradation and the abandonment of those territories, supporting those who work to safeguard an invaluable rural landscape and productions of unique quality. That is why I would like to congratulate the Members who have been able to conclude the legislative process of a measure much awaited by all the producers of citrus fruit, especially the smaller ones, who, with difficulty and so much effort, have been able to resist in recent years, at the cost of great sacrifices. These farmers deserve, with gratitude, to keep alive the extraordinary, spectacular coastal landscape. [[Applause from the PD Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-827.ana.u14	He's enlisted to speak Senator Candiani. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-827.ana.u15	Madam President, it is my wish to be a speech which I would call more of a testimony than of substance, because it is objectively difficult to talk about a dated measure - I take the text of the draft law, President - 15 October 2014, because the current situation, which remains important, also greatly affects its context. Unfortunately, today we have opened the sitting with the commemoration of the victims of the Manchester bombing, which certainly deserves a reflection. We had to discuss the anti-mafia code and other measures, but they are not ready and, therefore, we come to deal with this topic, which is worthy and absolutely important because it protects a historical tradition and a culture, as well as a culture, that our country sees spread throughout the territory: we go from the shores of Lake Garda to the Amalfi coast, from Sicily to Gargano. It is certainly true - I am addressing the Government - that this measure could and should have been approved from the outset. Deputy Minister Olivero, you are always present, unlike your owner, the Minister... what is the Minister of Agriculture's name? Arrigoni (LN-Aut). Martina. CANDIANI (LN-Aut). Martina, I'm told. We lost the memory of the face. We still have the name written somewhere in the newspapers, but we certainly wouldn't mind being able to enjoy its presence, at least to have a slightly more accomplished comparison. In any case, Minister Martina - if he is still Minister - should have also made a commitment not to make Members of his party look bad. You see, Deputy Minister Olivero, before I went back to look at articles that I had read at the time, and in particular an article that appeared on "La Stampa" in 2014, after the approval of the measure. I read: "We recapture and value the characteristic citrus groves also to defend the territory from failure and its identity from abandonment." This is stated by MPs PD Nicodemo Oliverio and Colomba Mongiello, respectively leader and member of the Chamber's Agriculture Commission, commenting on the adoption, at first reading, of the law on citrus groves characteristic to the outcome of the synthesis work between the five proposals put forward, two of which presented by Oliverio and Mongiello. The same MPs of the Democratic Party continue, as reported in the article: To the owners of these oases of biodiversity, which are located on the Gargano as on the Amalfi coast or along the coasts of Calabria and Sicily or overlooking Garda, we guarantee, through the Regions, a financial contribution of 4 million for the three years 2014-2016 destined to restore, recover and safeguard the citrus groves characteristic of the areas at risk of hydrogeological failure" Well, as I said, Deputy Minister, this is an article of October 15, 2014. The law was passed on that date and we find it here in the Senate exactly two and a half years later. Not for nothing, amendments have been made by the Commission in the legislative measure. I quote the article 6 where, in paragraph 2, it is indicated that: "to the burden deriving from the implementation of paragraph 1 shall be provided by corresponding reduction of the appropriation of the special fund of registered current part, for the purposes of the three-year budget 2014-2016 (...)." Obviously, this says that the provision, when launched in the House, was also enthusiastically supported. But it is equally clear that this measure and the content, apart from the fact that in the heart of the signatories and of those who supported it in the Commission, the Government is not interested at all. And this is because it is a crime, it is a mistake, it is wrong: it depends, of course, on a Minister of Agriculture who, apart from being photographed and appearing on television, does not really have a conscience and at heart the interest of the cultivations of our territory. There is little to be said and done about this. The measure is here and it will certainly be adopted today, even with smears and inaccuracies, because the rapporteur has confirmed to me that there is no intention of amending it - the rapporteur's textual words, which I would ask you to deny - otherwise the time would be longer. Dear fellow farmers, bear in mind that the measure is here, not because the opposition does not want to approve it, but because the majority did not want it to be approved until now. At the moment when, now, it is brought into approval, even with differences with reality, having passed two and a half years, and is quickly closed, in order not to waste any more time, it becomes a further mockery, in addition to the damage. It's not a serious way to operate. We will support the measure. We support this because we are absolutely convinced of the need to protect characteristic crops. I add and say to the government - although, with the premises I have just made, this can have a very relative meaning - that we cannot stop at a single cultivation. Woe to limit the vision to the cultivation of the characteristic and typical citrus groves, forgetting the cultivation of the vine in the mountains, rather than the grasses or, again, the other typical crops that we have appropriately included on the agenda G1,100, such as chestnuts. Well, in the face of this, we would like to see a real policy of support for "temperary" agriculture (let us call it that), that is, historical agriculture, an agriculture that goes far beyond market values and that is rooted in the territory precisely because it belongs to the culture of those lands, not limiting itself, of course, to solicitations. In fact, Madam President, this measure is also a request. I am pleased that, at the end of the dossier, a reference has been made to petition No 380 by Mr Francesco Di Pasquale, as provided for in the Rules of Procedure, which reads: Mr. Francesco Di Pasquale, of Gate and Arnone (Caserta), asks for measures to defend Italian oranges. This is petition No 380, inserted in the file containing the text of the bill, in a correct manner. I would like to ask what happened to the other 379 petitions, on other subjects and on other issues, but this gives the sense and the idea of how, if well implemented, our system of law-making also allows individual citizens to move forward petitions that are understood and even become the pillar on which an entire law is based. It is a pity that this petition fits into a provision that has been neglected for two and a half years. It is significant, however, that there has been this request, which therefore arises not only from the interests of the category, but also from a consideration which I repeat and will repeat again in my explanation of vote: ours is an agriculture that has peculiarities, which must be defended. It has peculiarities that also correspond to the history, tradition and way of life of people, because our territory has not been shaped by nature in its autonomy, but it is a territory that in its beauties, as we know it, derives from an extraordinary mix of natural aspects and anthropic aspects, with the people who, with their work and agriculture, have modified and shaped the territory, until making it in the uniqueness in which we know it today and who is envied by us from all over the world. We are continuing with this measure, although we are not satisfied - I repeat - because we have already understood that the amendments calling for more appropriations will also be rejected. We will insist on every legal opportunity for the funding included in this measure to be further extended and for the same rules that are put in place to protect characteristic citrus groves to be extended also to other crops that I have just mentioned. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-827.ana.u16	We welcome the students and teachers of the Istituto comprensivo "Colle Sannita" in Colle Sannita, in the province of Benevento, who attend our works. Welcome to the Senate. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-827.ana.u17	Senator Dalla Tor is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-827.ana.u18	Dear President, ladies and gentlemen, this measure is extremely important for the natural heritage of our Peninsula. It is a measure that tends to safeguard and enhance some characteristic areas historically cultivated with citrus fruits. These are mainly some areas located on the Ionian Riviera of Sicily, on the Ionian and Tyrrhenian Riviera of Calabria, on the Sorrento peninsula, on the Amalfi coast and on the islands of the Gulf of Naples, in the Gargano and around Lake Garda. The history of traditional Italian citrus cultivation has its roots in Roman times, to reach the maximum of economic expansion around the middle of the eighteenth century; the production areas developed mainly around the sea, due to the presence of a temperate climate and the possibility to compensate for the lack of rains with irrigation interventions. In contemporary times, these areas have suffered a fall from the commercial point of view, also because of the increasing costs of production, the small size of the companies and the difficulties of connection with the large distribution. Therefore, ad hoc measures are needed to ensure the protection of typical productions and, consequently, support companies that cannot compete, for costs and production, with the challenges of globalisation. These actions also allow the protection of agrarian biodiversity, fundamental to protect the excellence of Made in Italy and the cultivations of the Mediterranean basin. Moreover, the actors involved in the interventions carry out an important garrison of the territory in territorial areas at great risk of depopulation and hydrogeological failure. Therefore, the text fired after a work of Carthusian by the Committee on Agriculture of the Senate aims to restore, recover, as well as the maintenance and safeguard of characteristic citrus groves, where characteristic citrus groves are meant those with particular landscape, historical and environmental value and which are located in those areas particularly suited to the production of citrus fruits and in which the particular environmental and climatic conditions make the product unique precisely because it is closely linked to the territory. Specific interventions are planned both for the recovery and the safeguard of the characteristic citrus groves and for the restoration of those abandoned. For these interventions, an appropriation of 3 million is foreseen for 2017, to be distributed among the territories concerned. In this regard, it is specified that the contributions are granted as a priority for the development of traditional farming techniques and for integrated and organic agriculture, as well as for interventions that facilitate the use of sustainable techniques related to integrated, traditional and organic agriculture and enhance the tradition of local entities. Finally, the measure provides for a series of controls and sanctions for infringements of the provisions contained in the text. In particular, it is expected that, in the event that the interventions are carried out in part or lacking in relation to what is indicated in the application, the financial administrative penalty of an amount equal to a sum from a third to the entire contribution paid; the responsible person is also excluded from the possibility of obtaining contributions in the future. Where, on the other hand, the measures indicated in the application are not implemented at all, a pecuniary administrative penalty shall be applied equal to the amount of the contributions paid, increased by a third. In this case too, the exclusion from the possibility of participating in the provision of additional contributions is confirmed. This text is an improvement of the text which was fired from the other branch of Parliament a few years ago. Now, after the unanimous approval of the Committee on Agriculture, I would like to see the measure finally approved by the House quickly before the end of the parliamentary term. It will then be up to the Government, in agreement with the Regions, to identify the areas of intervention to be protected. Unless you stumble, the right legislative recognition will finally come to this heritage, more historical and environmental than simply agricultural. They will then be preserved by a law, for example, the lemon trees, unique architectural artifacts in the world that since the fifteenth century modified for productive purposes the landscape of the Brescian shore of the lake from Salò to Limone. The bill in question recognizes the connection of citrus fruits with the territory of origin, the fact that it is an element of characterization and therefore also of protection and fair valorization. This measure is yet another step for the valorization of Italian excellence. For these reasons, the Group of the People's Alternative - which our President will then reiterate in his explanation of vote - looks positively and convincingly at the draft law under consideration. [[Applause from the AP-CpE-NCD Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-827.ana.u19	He's enlisted to speak Senator Liuzzi. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-827.ana.u20	Madam President, the arrival of this measure in this House, at last, after a long wait, perhaps of meditation by the Government and the majority, cannot fail to draw to the attention and memory of this House some references, if you want of literary nature, because the same can be taken as an example and as an archetype of the importance of the landscape as they came to form by natural action and by virtuous human action over the centuries. The reference is that well known to Wolfgang Goethe's training novel "The years of Wilhelm Meister's apprenticeship" and to the more or less well-known phrase: Do you know the country where lemons bloom? Oranges of gold are shining between the dark leaves. I think that in these two lines there is all of Italy of the eighteenth century, the Italian landscape and its extraordinary uniqueness, to which I imagine the provision to our examination today wants to add a seal of protection, protection and valorization. Well, one cannot but agree with the spirit and content of the bill. It cannot be thought that the protection of such unique, diverse and attractive landscapes should not be given the greatest attention, although - as I said - it has been a long time since this measure could be approved and has not been. This is a grave fault to which today in this House we must certainly put a patch and do it in a almost unanimous and shared manner. It is necessary to extend the need to protect the characteristic cultivations of citrus groves also to other types of cultivars, to other crops, I would say to other varieties of fruit and vegetables, the same ones that have helped to give shape and substance to some characteristic, suggestive and fascinating corners of our Peninsula. Therefore, in addition to the areas indicated in the measure, as rightly Lake Garda, I would like to add a peculiarity that concerns Gargano and the Ionian Apulian and Lucanian belt, so strongly marked by the presence of these extensive and characteristic crops. The hope is to take into consideration also these forgotten places of our country, to the full benefit of biodiversity and biotypicality that finally return to being the cornerstones of agricultural productions and therefore also those excellences of the so-called Made in Italy to which the bill in question wants to give a contribution of valorization. On the basis of these considerations, we know that we must pay the greatest attention to this type of agriculture and to the farmers who are the real protagonists of so-called feared agriculture. Today there is already, is shared and quite sanctioned the idea in agriculture, in the wine sector, of the so-called historic vineyards, those very peculiar and in which there is the need to safeguard the traditional and ancient spirit. They are so-called heroic vineyards, because the concept is extended to the quality and the amount of time that operators devote so that these enclaves of our landscape resist, resist from all points of view, including that of hydrogeological failure. In this spirit, we are quite in favour of the measure being approved as soon as possible and being implemented, in the need for the country to give priority to this type of safeguard. [[Applause from the LAG Group (DI, Id, GS, M, MPL, RI, E-E). Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-827.ana.u21	Senator Gaetti is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-827.ana.u22	Madam President, strange but true: more than two years have passed since this text came to the Senate and is finally being brought to the Chamber today. It is a draft law which, in turn, comes from a unified text approved to the Chamber, the result of a work of inquiry that originated in the previous legislatures and which was then taken up in the current one through the presentation of numerous proposals on the subject. A copy and paste work, handed down over the years, which has approached the conduct of a series of hearings in order to have a complete cognitive picture. For a long time, therefore, this Act of the Senate 1641, with provisions for the protection of characteristic citrus groves, has kept us company between one session of the Commission and the other, although, to be honest, they had to pass many months (from October 2015 to February 2017) to move from the mere illustration of the amendments to the actual vote, always in 9th Commission. Having made these initial considerations, the picture must be enriched by the current situation, a very uncomfortable situation, with an export of citrus fruits reduced to bone and an import that goes with the vocation and climate of our territory. We know, according to the latest available data, that between 2010 and 2015, Italy imported 2.3 million tons of citrus fruits with an expenditure of almost two million euros. This is an average of 390,000 tonnes of imported product each year, equal to a sum of €290 million per year. From the point of view of origin, 12% of these imports - both in volume and value - come from the countries of southern Africa. At European level, in seventeen years, between 1999 and 2016, the countries of the European Union imported - again from southern Africa - more than 10 million tonnes of citrus fruit, of which the prevalence is precisely oranges. This incessant trend has played a bad blow not only to the ordinary citrus crops present in Italy, but above all to those characteristics, whose typicality and traditionality has gradually been lost. In an increasingly competitive global context, the protection of the territory and the preservation of traditional landscapes have, therefore, suffered a strong attack. Unfortunately, in fact, good and, in some cases, optimal orogeographic characteristics are not enough to determine the fortune of a territory and its citrus products. We also need constant care, a rational organisation of the supply chain, efficient logistics infrastructures and the presence of bodies and bodies that are able to promote the diffusion, through the widespread trade, of the fruits harvested. Structural surveys speak of a decrease of 22% - from 2010 to 2013 - of farms operating in the sector, which literally condemned the many farmers and small entrepreneurs who had invested in the field, aiming at the enhancement of the rural heritage. Now, since the text has changed its wording with respect to reading in the House, it is clear that it will be examined in a later third reading. This is the case, which makes the need to give speedy legislation to the matter fall into the void. We wonder, therefore, what is the point of this practice, which degrades Parliament's work and which exonerates them. Having said that, we hope that the discussion of this bill in this House will not be one of the many attempts of delay by this Government. It would be yet another mockery of millions of Italians who look forward to voting, to forgetting, once and for all, this sad and final escape of a legislature without head or tail. [[Applause from the M5S Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-827.ana.u23	Senator Padua is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-827.ana.u24	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, the measure we are examining contains rules for the recovery and preservation of citrus groves characteristic of the territories at risk of hydrogeological failure and of particular landscape value, within the framework of the broader objectives, of state competence, relating to environmental protection, the protection of land and soil, the conservation of traditional landscapes and the enhancement of agrarian biodiversity. As provided for in Article 1, interventions are expected to restore, enhance and safeguard characteristic citrus groves, that is those located in the areas intended for their cultivation, equipped with particular environmental and climatic conditions, which give the product unique characteristics and closely related to the peculiarities of the territory of origin. The objectives of the protection and enhancement of agrarian biodiversity and the preservation of certain characteristic areas historically cultivated with citrus groves cover many areas of our peninsula, including eastern and south-eastern Sicily. The rules before us, therefore, have as a priority the environmental-landscape aspect, but it is not to be overlooked, in addition to the economic support provided by the Fund under Article 6 for direct farmers and farmers, the aspect relating to the indirect promotion of physical well-being linked to a healthier diet. In fact, the strengthening of the support of the production of citrus fruits, as provided for also by the rules on the activities of the consortiums of protection, also aims to improve the production yield and revive citrus groves placed in areas impervious or abandoned, with the aim of bringing the local communities closer to the consumption of typical products of the territory. This can have direct effects on the consumption of citrus fruits in our country, also because of the numbers that affect the sector, helping to assume more correct lifestyles, inviting us to choose healthy products, those at zero kilometers. I think above all of the boys, but also of us adults, who too often make us take from the use of drinks certainly not harmless, very sugary, that do not help to maintain our well-being. Why not choose, instead, in the winter period, those beautiful orange squeezes, so rich in vitamin C, that nature gives us precisely during the period in which they serve? I want to remind myself and all of you that the citrus sector, in the area of eastern Sicily alone, involves about 80,000 farms, with 130,000 hectares of cultivated areas: here, as in other areas of Italy, are cultivated those quality products, with a high nutritional value, which represent a characteristic symbol of the island. Considering the historical aspects that bind citrus fruits to many areas of southern Italy and island, certainly Sicily is one of the most closely related to citrus production, also thanks to the historically accomplished use of citrus plants in function of embellishment of gardens and palaces. The citrus fruits, as well as the palm trees, are part of our landscape, as if they were living monuments, real, to be touched as palaces, but even more beautiful than the palaces because they are indeed alive. Considering the historical aspects, Sicily, like other areas of the Mezzogiorno (and not only: we think, for example, the area of Lake Garda), is by nature linked to citrus productions thanks to the presence of a temperate climate and rather mild even in winter. In general, the citrus growing, in our country, has had progressive growth that has often been shaped intertwining with the history of the territories where it was practiced: the red orange of Sicily is intimately linked, even in the collective imagination, to the same culture of some Secure Provinces and is certainly linked to the landscapes and traditions of the local communities. We think of the varieties Tarot, Moro and Sanguinello, which are known in all national markets and represent a flagship for the Provinces of Ragusa, Syracuse and Catania. It is essential, therefore, to provide for interventions that restore and enhance commercial, social and cultural conditions relating to citrus production, which have changed over time, sometimes causing to lose, in the areas concerned, importance to that source of well-being that citrus fruits represent for the whole of our country and, in particular, for the Mezzogiorno. It is therefore very important to support the revitalization of abandoned areas, because of conditions of cultivability that have become increasingly difficult and burdensome, because with these interventions you can obtain benefits, as well underlined in the measure, both in terms of protecting the landscape and protecting the environment. Moreover, it helps to restore momentum to traditions that for a long time have been the strength of a national culture founded, first of all in the South, on the cultivation of the land, helping concretely those who lead a citrus grove and suffer in conditions of difficulty. Think, for example, of the obstacles that can be encountered by a farmer or a direct farmer who has a citrus grove on a terrace typical of our coastal areas, from the difficulty of harvesting to those that meet for the transport of products. I would like to stress the aspect of the rule under consideration which certainly encourages more and more the presence of young people who are returning to take care of the land and agriculture, increasingly stigmatizing the interweaving between tradition, history, innovation and the ethical and social value that agriculture itself has. We have said that intervention to safeguard and restore where necessary, these productions have a particular importance for the purposes of landscape protection. The degradation of the terraces and the abandonment of impervious places involve the impoverishment of the soils, with the consequent risks linked, as already mentioned, to the divallation of its slopes, which can cause rather serious damage from the hydrogeological point of view. Legislative intervention, therefore, is in line with the provisions of the Council of Europe Convention of 2000 for the establishment of common rules for the protection, planning and management of landscapes in international law. It affirms the centrality of landscape protection as an indispensable component of the strategies of land management within the competence of the acceding States. The discipline of the interventions, entrusted by the measure to the regional competence, previews the concrete identification of the territories in which the characteristic citrus groves are located and the definition of criteria and typologies for which the state contribution is granted. In this context, it should be borne in mind that interventions eligible for assistance should primarily respect sustainable techniques linked to integrated, traditional and organic agriculture and must be carried out in compliance with the structural elements of the landscape and with techniques and materials appropriate to the protection of the characteristics of typical local communities. In this way, the link between the protection of the landscape and the environment merges with the enhancement of agricultural biodiversity, helping to achieve the objectives set by the law. Finally, one last point to mention concerns indirect effects as an opportunity for financial stimulus and encouragement to support the agri-food chain, also because of its relative weight (about 7%) in national exports. Despite recent upward trends, in fact, the trade balance of the sector is on the whole negative due to the deficit in agricultural production compared to the needs of the food industry and the burden on the shoulders of our farmers, which is certainly much higher than that of other countries. It will not be decisive for international competitiveness, but the measure will certainly help the sector to increase and improve the production of citrus fruits, intervening on the mechanisms that concern the production and distribution of typical products of our coastal territories. Certainly the transport of products and goods on rubber, which is by far the most used mode in our country, does not contribute to reduce the costs incurred by agricultural companies, generally lowering the efficiency of the agri-food chain, which suffers from the inefficiencies of the country system. For this reason, far-reaching strategies must be implemented that, starting from a renewed centrality for the land and its products, aim to safeguard, protect and make increasingly competitive local productions, in addition to that of landscape-environmental protection, recognizing the national value of an inestimable landscape formed by a centuries-old interweaving of nature and culture. I should now like to conclude with a comment. We have talked about landscape, safety, environment, citrus fruits and the quality of our agriculture, but I would like to conclude with an emotion. How many of us - the Sicilians, in particular, who leave their land, but also those travellers who, by chance or by choice, go on vacation - leave Sicily carrying in the heart and in their luggage that ineffable perfume, I can not say if unmistakable or unforgettable, of the zagara? This perfume is carried in the heart, comes a deep nostalgia and you want to go back to Sicily. This applies to Sicily and all the other areas involved: let's think about Garda, Gargano or Calabria. All these areas, which we discussed in this measure, could not be what they are if they had not had citrus gardens and would certainly have lost their identity. For this reason we recognize them and remember them also with a perfume, which really remains in our heart. [[Applause from the PD Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-827.ana.u25	He's enlisted to speak Senator Ruvolo. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-827.ana.u26	Madam President, my speech will be very brief. I would like above all to remind my fellow Members who have spoken in the debate that the measure under consideration is not dated 2014, the year in which it was transmitted by the House of Deputies, but is dated 2006. A discussion began then, which for that time was very profitable, then, after the resignation of the Prodi Government, nothing was done. It was resumed in 2008 and, between one ballet and the other, the measure was no longer discussed, except a few months ago. I come from an area that can boast the cultivation of oranges with a protected designation of origin: in fact, I come from the city of oranges, called Ribera, in the province of Agrigento. I therefore intervene in the light of the many experiences that have been experienced in that area and I think I can, as I did in the Commission too, give the small contribution of those who take care of these activities on a daily basis. What is the proposed measure? Simple: it deals in particular with protecting the landscape, because there are many so-called terraced citrus groves, that are on the terraces, that being able to cultivate has now become a tragedy, because the costs are hugely greater than any revenue. The measure also provides for the creation of a fund of EUR 3 million and I would like to remind you that this is a very small amount. However, I would like to thank the President of the Committee on Agriculture and Food Production, Mr Formigoni, and the rapporteur, Mr Scoma, who really made a great deal of effort, for finally concluding this parliamentary passage. It is clear that the three million euros that have been allocated are insufficient: it was a figure to be included in the measure to make it practically operational. In this respect, Madam President, you who are always very careful about my remarks and considerations will remember that I have said several times, even during one of the many sessions you have chaired, about the three million euros that you have taken a tester of the so-called Electromechanical Experimental Module (MOSE). Three million euros earned them only a tester, because the MOSE test cost citizens' pockets 19 million euros. I respect all the very heartfelt speeches by my colleagues, but let us look at the things that matter and what is a hypothetical perspective. The measure is important, it is opportune and necessary, expected from 2006, and I hope that it will finally be approved unanimously; the question still remains as it is possible - I ask the Government above all - that a parcel of a MOSE tester can correspond to the support for such an important and significant activity as the Italian citrus growing. I don't think so. Of course, I know that nothing can be done at this time, and I too will vote for the measure in spite of these remarks. There are few resources; we can support only a few areas, but if I imagine the whole world of citrus growing, characteristic of this country, they are really change. I hope that the governments that will come and that those who care about citrus cultivation, given that many have intervened and that citrus cultivation is a backbone of the agricultural economy of our country, will soon work for a filling up of the sums that, I repeat, are not sufficient. However, I shall vote in favour of the measure.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-827.ana.u27	I'm afraid the MOSE test isn't over yet, Senator Ruvolo.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-827.ana.u28	RUVOLO (Misto-UDC). We've said that many times, President. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. He's enlisted to speak Senator Stephen. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-827.ana.u29	Madam President, my speech will be a brief one, given that the measure comes to the end of a trial period, as all my previous colleagues have said. It is handed over to us from the previous legislature, when, for several reasons, it did not mark the goal of its formulation in law, although it had almost unanimous agreement. Today, in this House, we have a more general need to secure crops and cultures. I am referring here to the citrus groves, which characterize our landscape, our territory and which are the witness that we should give to the new generations. The measure also expresses, I believe, our rediscovered ability to invest on the specificities of our territory, closing a very long phase in which we have experienced our productive and landscape peculiarities almost as a burden, a ballast that held back the need to modernize the country, converting it to other cultures and cultures. Today's measure is certainly significant: it puts a piece. A piece from which it is too difficult to imagine the complete design, but it is a piece of a wider mosaic that we will have to continue to build, not through national regulations, but with our more significant commitment in the European framework. As a convinced European, I think that we find ourselves in the need to interpret national regulatory instruments to defend, recover and enhance our cultural and landscape identities, because for too long we have embraced an idea of Europe that has tried to standardize us not giving us the opportunity to highlight the peculiarities of the individual territories. I believe that we should work on that front, even on the basis of what has been happening in recent years: these characteristic cultures and cultures of ours are increasingly threatened by plant health emergencies, the result of a globalisation without rules that the European Union has not been able to manage with the will of those who instead had to determine conditions of protection. The measure of today therefore is fine, even if it is a measure that cannot be exhaustive neither for the citrus groves nor for our productive peculiarities, but let's think about what are for us secular olive trees, what are the vines, what is all that landscape heritage that we have the task of enhancing. So let us welcome this measure, and I have shared it in the Commission and I share it here in this House, but only if it represents the path of a new commitment that we are going to make in a Europe that we would like to accompany us in these processes of recovering our identities. A country like ours, recognized all over the world as a country of greater significance in the primary productions and in the specific territorial landscapes, has the need to start again, investing on its own identity, on its own history, on the witnesses that are delivered to us by generations of farmers. In this regard too, it is easy for me to say that a country that does not invest in the valorization of its past is a country that has no prospect. Let us all then adhere - I first - to this measure, but let us ensure that it is only the beginning of a new political will. Mr Deputy Minister, Government, we need these measures no longer to be needed in the future, because we will have the opportunity to influence European policies that allow us to safeguard and enhance our identities and not to defend them from imitations. As long as Europe is able to have a protected geographical indication that allows a butterfly of Andria to be produced with the German curd, worked in France and then packed in Andria, we will also have the strength to take measures of valorization like this, but we will be doomed to lose, because our battle must consume it on that front and not through individual regulatory interventions, however with financial resources always too scarce to overcome a challenge that we could instead overcome with greater agility.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-827.ana.u30	The general debate is closed. As the rapporteur does not wish to speak in his reply, I call the representative of the Government.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-827.ana.u31	Madam President, I would like to say a few words to answer some of the objections and remarks made by my fellow senators. First of all, I would like to point out that the process of this measure has certainly been a very long one, and I say this particularly to Senator Candiani and Senator Gaetti who have mentioned it. (Brusio). PRESIDENT. - The debate is Colleagues, I would ask you to allow the Deputy Minister to speak, there is too much buzz. Mr Olivero, Deputy Minister for Agricultural Food and Forestry Policy. It is, however, something that has been stopped - and I repeat this - also by continuing to work in the legislative field on measures of an agricultural nature. Never before have far-reaching measures been adopted in the field of agriculture which have had much to do with the specific subject matter. We have intervened in the face of crisis in the sector, but also for the whole reorganization of the supply chains. Just think of the Campolibero project as the last important work that has been connected agriculture. This is, in my view, particularly important in order to place the measure on the market within a set of choices made together, largely by a very large majority of this Parliament. Above all, there is one crucial aspect to this measure, which many of my colleagues have said, which I thank. To some extent it is the key to reading the perspective of our agriculture: I am referring to the connection between the territory, its beauty and our products. This element, which we had often simply evoked in the past decades, has actually become a strategic-political choice in recent years. Our Government, also through the choice of product traceability, ultimately milk and dairy products, but also durum wheat and rice, is giving priority to a very precise strategy of product protection and protection of the territories. That's why it is useful and important to go to safeguard, a heritage that is set of traditional culture, agricultural culture, but also environmental and landscape heritage. It is true that the measure is not exhaustive, but goes in the right direction. It is a measure - let us never forget, ladies and gentlemen - which interprets what Parliament has chosen for the agricultural sector, namely that ours was the Ministry of Agricultural Policies. We then have the appropriate financing instruments, the RDP, we have territorial investments made by our regions, which of course must be addressed politically, as we do with these rules, but which exist and are substantial and can interact to go to fill in meaning and content the measure itself. We have placed some resources, others may be added, no doubt at national level but even more, I repeat, at territorial level. We take, then, the signal that comes from here but we do not underestimate the importance that this norm has for our territories, and indeed consider fundamental the task of safeguarding this as of many other specific agricultural sectors that are true representation of Italian culture; not of a minor culture but of a great culture that makes Italy great in the world. I would like to end by thanking all my colleagues who have worked in recent months to speed up the process. I would like to thank Senator Scoma, rapporteur for the draft law, and those in the Commission who strongly wanted the measure because, even with all the limitations inherent in partiality, it is important and I am sure that his approval this evening is a sign that, in any case (in addition to drawing up the overall framework), we do not want to forget the individual aspects. [[Applause from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-827.ana.u32	I would like to inform you that the Presidency - and I am in distribution - has received the opinions of the 1st and 5th standing Commission on the draft law under consideration and the amendments, which will be published in an annex to today's report. I note that the Presidency declares amendment 2.4 inadmissible because it is intended to make binding the opinion that the Permanent Commissions of both Chambers will have to express in relation to the Ministerial Decree implementing Article 2. [[Brusio.]] Senator D'Anna, please, you can't even preside over this buzz. The provision of a parliamentary opinion of a binding nature in relation to a legislative, delegated or regulatory power attributed to the Government is, in fact, contrary to the division of competences between bodies of the State established directly by the Constitution on which the ordinary legislator cannot affect. Moreover, the binding nature of a parliamentary opinion does not appear to be in line with the rules of reasonableness and institutional correctness, since the opinions given by each Chamber could potentially be expressed in a different sense, thus making it impossible to adopt delegated legislation. We shall now proceed to the examination of Article 1, on which an agenda has been tabled which is intended to be presented and on which I invite the rapporteur and the representative of the Government to give their views.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-827.ana.u33	Madam President, on the agenda, I shall return to the Government.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-827.ana.u34	Madam President, the opinion is in favour, with the following rewording: it commits the Government to assess the adoption of legislative provisions similar to those laid down in the draft law under consideration, for all agricultural productions such as mountain vines, chestnuts, minor herbaceous plants, such as medicinal plants, as well as all spontaneous mountain and land products such as truffles, mushrooms and small fruits, which still need to be safeguarded in order to maintain intact the tradition and the typicalness of local varieties of great importance, not only because of their agricultural and economic value, but also because of their environmental, tourist, industrial or multifunctional character.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-827.ana.u35	I ask Senator Candiani if he accepts this reformulation and, at the same time, if he insists on voting on the agenda.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-827.ana.u36	Madam President, I accept the Government's proposal and, if possible, I would also ask for a formal amendment to the proposal, because there are calls that have already been made. Where we read that in the Agriculture Commission in the Chamber of Deputies the examination of the legislative proposals to support and enhance one of the oldest crops of the hilly and mountain territory, the chestnut growing, this reference, which was current in 2014, is now outdated. So, I would ask to correct the text by putting the verbs in the past. In any case, I insist on the vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-827.ana.u37	We shall therefore proceed to the vote on the agenda ( Text 2). MARINO Luigi (AP-CpE-NCD). We call for simultaneous ballots to be carried out by electronic means. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of the agenda G1,100 (text 2), tabled by Senator Candiani. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Article 1. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the examination of Article 2, on which amendments have been tabled and an agenda to be presented and on which I invite the rapporteur and the representative of the Government to give their views.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-827.ana.u38	Madam President, the opinion is against all the amendments. On the agenda for G2,100, I return to the government.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-827.ana.u39	Madam President, the opinion is in line with the rapporteur on the amendments. On the G2.100 agenda, the opinion is in favour if the system is reworded and the words 'in so far as they correspond to the characteristics set out in Articles 1 and 2 of this draft law' are inserted.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-827.ana.u40	The rapporteur points out that he accepts the rewording. We shall therefore proceed to the vote on Rule 2.1. GAETTI (M5S). We call for simultaneous ballots to be carried out by electronic means. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous vote on Amendment 2.1 tabled by Senator Donno. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 2,100 tabled by Senator Campanella and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Amendment 2.4 is inadmissible. Are you insisting on voting on the agenda for G2.100 (text 2), Senator Scoma? SCOMA, rapporteur. Yes, Madam President. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by a simultaneous vote on the G2100 (text 2) agenda, tabled by the rapporteur. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Rule 2. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B).
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-827.ana.u41	We welcome the teachers and students of the Liceo artistico Statale (State Art School) Via di Ripetta (Via di Ripetta) in Rome, who attend our works. Welcome. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-827.ana.u42	We shall now proceed to the examination of Article 3, on which amendments have been tabled which are intended to be presented and on which I invite the rapporteur and the representative of the Government to give their views.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-827.ana.u43	Madam President, I am against all the amendments.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-827.ana.u44	Madam President, I agree with the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-827.ana.u45	We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 3,100. GAETTI (M5S). We call for simultaneous ballots to be carried out by electronic means. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of Amendment 3,100, tabled by Senator Donno. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of Amendment 3,101, tabled by Senators Gaetti and Donno. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous vote on Amendment 3.7 tabled by Senator Donno. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by a simultaneous vote on Amendment 3,102 tabled by Senator Donno. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Amendment 3,103 tabled by Senator Campanella and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Rule 3. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the examination of Article 4, on which amendments have been tabled and an agenda to be presented and on which I invite the rapporteur and the representative of the Government to give their views.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-827.ana.u46	Madam President, I am against all the amendments and I turn to the Government on the agenda for the G4100.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-827.ana.u47	Madam President, I agree with the rapporteur on the amendments. As regards the G4100 agenda, I am in favour, provided that, in the principle of commitment, the words "to be adopted" are replaced by the following:
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-827.ana.u48	Does the proposer accept the rewording proposed by the Government of the G4100 agenda?
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-827.ana.u49	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-827.ana.u50	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-827.ana.u51	GAETTI (M5S). Madam President, I would like to add my signature to the G4100 agenda and accept the rewording proposed by the Government.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-827.ana.u52	We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment No 4,100. GAETTI (M5S). We call for simultaneous ballots to be carried out by electronic means. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 4,100, tabled by Senators Gaetti and Donno. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 4101 tabled by Senator Donno. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 4102.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-827.ana.u53	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-827.ana.u54	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-827.ana.u55	PUGLIA (M5S). Madam President, I would first like to subscribe to this amendment and then invite the House to vote in favour and the rapporteur and the representative of the Government to reconsider. Amendment 4.102 also seeks to include small farmers and family businesses as a priority. We must bear in mind that very often these citrus fruits are not part of large properties, but of very small realities that we must absolutely support. There are historical areas with an important cultural and landscape value, where citrus groves are managed by small family realities, but in some areas - alas - the citrus groves wither strangely and after a while become parking spaces. Small realities are, for example, in the beautiful and wonderful Sorrento peninsula, also thanks to the morphology of the territory. This peninsula is made in such a way that there can be no great reality, but only small and very small. We have this opportunity and we must not miss it. I'm glad he's talking about it, but I'm afraid he's just talking about it and once he's voted on in the Senate, the Democratic Party will "kill" him in the House. In our examination, however, there is an important measure, so I call on the Democratic Party to ensure that it is also approved in the House immediately and to take into account this amendment, which also opens up to children and protects the Sorrento and Amalfi coast.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-827.ana.u56	I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 4102 tabled by Senators Donno and Puglia. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 4103 tabled by Senator Campanella and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Having been accepted by the Government, the agenda G4100 (text 2) will not be put to the vote. I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Rule 4. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Rule 5. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the examination of Article 6, on which amendments have been tabled which are intended to be presented and on which I invite the rapporteur and the representative of the Government to give their views.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-827.ana.u57	Madam President, I am against all the amendments.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-827.ana.u58	Madam President, I agree with the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-827.ana.u59	We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 6,100. GAETTI (M5S). We call for simultaneous ballots to be carried out by electronic means. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of the first part of amendment 6,100, tabled by Senator Donno, up to the word "days". (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). The remaining part and amendment 6.5 are therefore excluded. I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 6.6 tabled by Senator Donno. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Rule 6. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). Let us move on to amendment 6.0.100, on which the 5th Commission has expressed an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution. DE PETRIS (Misto-SI-SEL). We are asking for the vote. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). Pursuant to Rule 102-bis of the Rules of Procedure, I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 6.0.100, tabled by Senator Campanella and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the examination of Article 7, on which amendments have been tabled, which I would ask the authors to explain.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-827.ana.u60	Madam President, Article 7 is particularly important as it lays down the procedures for allocating contributions. I have tabled a number of amendments to this article, which I would like to make a general explanation of, thus making our work more time-consuming. In paragraph 1 (b) of that Article, the procedures and time limits for the submission of applications and the allocation of contributions shall be laid down. Amendment 7,100 also calls for the criteria for the formation of rankings and specifies how the scores should be allocated, which should favour areas of landscape interest as well as those at risk of hydrogeological failure. Another particularly important proposal is that the list of beneficiaries should be published at least on the Ministry's website, as well as the information on how much money is allocated, because it is an element of great transparency and clarity. The Deputy Minister referred earlier to the RDP and the European funds that are being received. I would like to remind you that in the past seven years we have lost 1.8 billion of the RDP and 2.2 billion of European funds are being negotiated. It is therefore necessary to use maximum transparency on the allocation of public money. I think this is the best form of control, because when the neighbor realizes that the other perceives sums of money not due, it is very interesting. Another proposal, which I believe to be extremely important, is contained in Amendment 7102. In paragraph 1 (c) of Article 7 it is stipulated that the Regions shall provide for the selection and training of the lists of beneficiaries and for the provision of contributions on the basis of the inquiry carried out by the competent municipality. Here, too, the criterion for initiating the investigation is not established. With amendment 7.102 I would like at least to replace the words of the inquiry until the end of the letter with the words of the documentation submitted by the applicant, in such a way as to justify, with special documentation, if you have more or less the title of the contribution. I believe that they are all amendments of great common sense and transparency, the transparency that we always fill our speeches with. So let us see whether these clear amendments will be accepted by the Government, so that we will finally know who takes the money, with what criterion and on what basis. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-827.ana.u61	The remaining amendments are set out. I call on the rapporteur and the representative of the Government to comment on the amendments under consideration.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-827.ana.u62	Madam President, I am against all the amendments to Rule 7.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-827.ana.u63	Madam President, I agree with the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-827.ana.u64	We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 7,100.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-827.ana.u65	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-827.ana.u66	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-827.ana.u67	PUGLIA (M5S). Mr President, I would ask you to be able to add the signature to all the amendments tabled in Article 7. I would also ask that votes be taken by simultaneous ballot by electronic means. 18.15 p.m.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-827.ana.u68	I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 7,100, tabled by Senator Gaetti and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 7,101, tabled by Senators Donno and Puglia. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 7102 tabled by Senator Gaetti and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 7.103 tabled by Senator Gaetti and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Rule 7. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the examination of Article 8, on which amendments have been tabled which are intended to be presented and on which I invite the rapporteur and the representative of the Government to give their views.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-827.ana.u69	Mr President, I call on the authors to withdraw and turn amendment 8.0.103 into an agenda, otherwise the opinion is against it. I am against all the other amendments tabled.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-827.ana.u70	Senator De Petris, do you accept the rapporteur's request?
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-827.ana.u71	Mr President, I agree to turn amendment 8.0.103 on the agenda, but I would like to take this opportunity to highlight the fact that the other additional amendments concern, as you know perfectly well (I am also addressing the Deputy Minister) one of the weaknesses of the measure, namely the fact that there is no real sector plan for a sector that is unfortunately in crisis. I therefore ask whether it is possible to turn amendment 8.0.100 into an agenda, because it would give an indication of a real issue that the Deputy Minister knows perfectly well.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-827.ana.u72	Mr President, as regards the amendments tabled, I agree with the rapporteur's. As far as Senator De Petris' proposal is concerned, I would ask her instead to turn Amendment 8.0.102, which is the most consistent one, into an agenda. In this case, the opinion would be favourable. I also welcome the G8.0.103 agenda, knowing that specific projects such as fruit and vegetables in schools are already taking place on this subject, in which particular attention can be paid to the citrus sector.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-827.ana.u73	Senator De Petris, do you accept the government representative's proposal? DE PETRIS (Misto-SI-SEL). Yes, ma'am. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 8,100. GAETTI (M5S). We call for simultaneous ballots to be carried out by electronic means. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 8,100, tabled by Senator Donno. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 8,101, tabled by Senators Gaetti and Donno. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Rule 8. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). Let us move on to amendment 8.0.100, on which the 5th Commission has expressed an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution. DE PETRIS (Misto-SI-SEL). We are asking for the vote. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). Pursuant to Rule 102-bis of the Rules of Procedure, I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 8.0.100, tabled by Senator Campanella and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). In view of the contrary opinion expressed by the 5th Commission pursuant to Article 81 of the Constitution, amendment 8.0.101 is impervious. Having been accepted by the Government, the agendas of the G8.0.102 and G8.0.103 will not be put to the vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-827.ana.u74	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-827.ana.u75	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-827.ana.u76	CANDIANI (LN-Aut). Mr President, I will make a brief speech in order to declare the Lega Nord Group's vote in favour of the draft law under consideration, but I should also like to remind the Government, as has already been done before, of the responsibility for having delayed the adoption of a measure on which such a broad convergence has been found in the Senate Assembly by two and a half years. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group]] What has been done for this measure is both by memory and example to the Government: if you listen to the territories, the answers can only go in the direction of giving support to those who do agriculture, as in this case, preserving the cultivation of traditional citrus groves and especially the culture that is linked to the cultivation of citrus fruits. The same is true for chestnuts and other typical crops. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group]] If there are also funds available, we will declare ourselves satisfied and express further praise to the Government; if this does not happen we will be the greatest chastisers towards the Government, because we cannot deceive citizens with laws that are not financed. Pending the verification of the facts, I confirm the vote in favour of the Lega Nord Group. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-827.ana.u77	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-827.ana.u78	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-827.ana.u79	GATTI (Art. 1-MDP). Mr President, a few words to declare my Group's vote in favour, Article 1 - Democratic and Progressive Movement - to the measure we are considering today. It is a favorable vote, because the provision contains norms for the recovery and the safeguard of characteristic citrus groves that, as specified by paragraph 2 of Article 1, are those of particular value landscape varietal, historical and environmental, located in areas intended for the cultivation of citrus species in which particular environmental and climatic conditions give the product specific characteristics closely related to the peculiarity of the territory of origin. The aim of the measure, therefore, is that of the wider objective of environmental protection, of protecting the territory and the soil, of preserving traditional landscapes and of protecting and enhancing agricultural biodiversity. Many people in general have mentioned Goethe and then, if our country is the one where lemons flower and the golden oranges burn between the dark foliage, we must protect all this, cure it, safeguard it and if necessary restore it. There is a broad involvement of the Regions in the implementation of the law; agreement is required in the State-Regions Conference on the ministerial decree that must identify the territories in which the characteristic citrus groves are located; in the same decree the criteria and types of the planned interventions admitted to the contributions are to be defined and the measure of the contributions payable must be determined. The Region concerned shall define the amount of resources to be allocated to the contributions, lay down the procedures and times for the submission of applications and shall select and form the ranking of the beneficiaries, as well as the granting of the contributions, which shall be granted in accordance with EU State aid rules. The measure makes available for 2017 a fund with a budget of €3 million. This commits everyone to do soon, so as not to frustrate the financing, as unfortunately happened with the one planned for 2016, which the long iter of the measure did not allow to use profitably. [[Applause from the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and ……]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-827.ana.u80	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-827.ana.u81	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-827.ana.u82	PANIZE (Aut (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT)-PSI-MAIE). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Vice-Minister Olivero, following the approval of the House of Deputies, the Senate's Agriculture and Agri-food Production Committee was found on the draft law to safeguard the characteristic citrus groves an important convergence. The Commission has approved the measure unanimously and we are therefore pleased to be able to examine it and - I hope - to approve the final text at last in a short time. I would therefore like to thank all the presenters, the rapporteur, Mr Scoma, and the Deputy Minister, Mr Olivero, for the important work they have done together with the members of the Committee on Agriculture and Food Production. The draft law in question recognizes the link of citrus groves with the territory of origin and the fact that it is an element of characterization and, therefore, also of protection and proper valorization of landscape and environment. Not surprisingly, alongside the Ministry of Agricultural, Food and Forestry Policies, the Ministry of Cultural Heritage and Activities and Tourism and the Ministry of the Environment and Protection of the Territory and the Sea are involved. The measure provides for the possibility of financing interventions that promote the restoration, recovery, maintenance and preservation of our characteristic citrus groves and that, through appropriate techniques and materials, ensure the maintenance of the characteristics of typicality and traditionality of local identities, giving priority to traditional farming techniques, integrated agriculture and organic farming. The economic contributions, in the order of EUR 3 million for the current year, identify as priority beneficiaries direct farmers and local farmers, with an eye to the restoration of the characteristic abandoned citrus groves that we hope can be saved and recovered at least in part by this measure. The measure in question therefore affects all Italy and, as far as my direct experience is concerned, also the historical lemonias of Garda, being able to contribute to their safeguard and to the maintenance of a specificity as an element of economic, landscape and even cultural value of the territory. The presence of citrus groves and their characteristic crops contributes primarily to the maintenance of biodiversity and typical vegetation, but also to the tourist attraction of our country. I believe that everyone in this House has in mind the beautiful lemon trees of the Garda coast, which, with the characteristic structures of protection created many decades ago by the peasants, emerge from the Mediterranean flora, recognizing in an unmistakable way the beautiful landscape of the lake. Unfortunately some lemonias have been destroyed, others have been recovered in building interventions that have saved the architectural peculiarity, others are still cultivated and others have been recovered in recent years, although unfortunately, following the construction of the gallery Adige-Garda, the characteristic stalls that until a few decades ago sold the braided strings of tasty citrus have disappeared. In conclusion, I therefore declare the vote in favour of the Group for the Autonomies (SVP-UV-PATT-UPT)-PSI-MAIE, in the hope that the House of Deputies will also be quick to finally approve a measure that the territories concerned have been waiting for too long. [[Applause from Senator Buemi.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-827.ana.u83	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-827.ana.u84	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-827.ana.u85	Formigoni (AP-CpE-NCD). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, this measure is extremely important for the natural heritage of our peninsula, as has been pointed out in many speeches in the debate and in the explanations of vote. I remember that there are about 170,000 hectares of citrus groves in Italy, mainly in Sicily and Calabria, but also in other regions. It is, therefore, a heritage that must be defended and relaunched because it has great potential. Oranges, lemons, mandarins and Italian mandarans are very high quality products, controlled from the plant health point of view and that are also suitable for industrial transformations that do not limit themselves to juices and jams, because, thanks to innovative technologies, you can get to exploit in a virtuous way even the waste. In this sector of great numbers, therefore, a comprehensive strategy is needed to safeguard, protect and enhance Italian citrus cultivation and its entire supply chain: production, marketing and processing. The citrus cultivation over the centuries has been characterized by a progressive growth, such as to shape and condition society, the territory and the environment where it was practiced, becoming, for extensive areas, an integral part with the territory and with the popular traditions. This sector, which represented a source of well-being in the past decades, has suffered from the 1960s an increasing loss of importance due to the changed commercial, social and cultural conditions, to be traced back to several factors, including the increasing production costs, the reduced size of the companies and the increasingly strong and aggressive foreign competition. The result of this process has resulted in a state of crisis certainly aggravated in recent decades, which has caused very often the abandonment of those areas where the conditions of cultivability were more difficult and onerous, with consequent negative impact both on the landscape and on the protection of the territory and with serious reflections, also with reference to the abandonment of those traditions that have been a strong point of Italian culture and identity. I want to deepen the data that I recalled at the beginning, citing ISTAT: as I have already mentioned, in Italy the areas cultivated with citrus trees are around 170,000 hectares, with a clear prevalence of orange (over 60 percent), followed by clementines and clementines (over 22 percent), lemons (over 16 percent) and so-called minor citrus fruits, such as bergamot, grapefruit and others. During the four-year period 2008-2011 production amounted to 3,9 billion tonnes, with a similar incidence of the different species (about 63 percent of oranges, about 22 percent of clementines and mandarines, about 14 percent of lemons and about 1 percent of other citrus fruits). With regard to regional distribution, Sicily is national leader with 55.8 percent, followed by Calabria with 25.6 percent, while a lesser incidence have Puglia with 6.6 percent, Sardinia with 4.8 percent, Basilicata with 4.7 percent and Campania with 2 percent and also other regions, among which I am allowed to remember, even in minor terms, Lombardy itself, on the coasts of Garda. Over the last two decades, the national citrus sector has undergone significant changes in terms of both supply and demand, reflecting what has also been recorded in other production sectors. They concerned the increase in labour costs and technical means, the tightening of tax and social security policies, the reduction of producer prices and the dismantling of Community policies to protect and support the income of citrus growers, which have led to a critical and sometimes critical situation. At the level of production this state has increased especially in the last five to ten years, with strong imbalances between costs and revenues, which have led to the consequent less attention to the cultivation, determining, in some cases, even the abandonment of the fields, with negative effects on the production, the incomes and the employment of the entire national citrus chain. However, operators in the sector have very often reacted, for example through the introduction of a wide range of technical innovations, from those specifically agronomic, based on methods of operation of plants other than the past for irrigation and soil management, to the adoption of new protocols for organic production. As often happens in fruit farming, innovation is immediately understood and perceived when it comes to new varieties and porters, who tend to satisfy the adaptation of the product to the demand of the markets and so often has happened. It seems important to recall that the measure under consideration is the result of a long work of inquiry, which derives - it is true - from previous legislation, with particular reference to the initiatives of the last legislature, demonstrating how important the problem and the need for intervention are felt by the various political and parliamentary forces. The measure has found special attention in this legislature, especially in the Commission which I have the honour to chair. It also provides for the granting of a contribution to cover part of the costs of recovering and safeguarding citrus groves, and a single contribution to cover part of the costs of supporting the restoration of abandoned citrus groves. For these interventions, an appropriation of 3 million is foreseen for 2017, to be distributed among the territories concerned. In this regard, it is specified that the contributions are granted as a priority for the development of traditional farming techniques and for integrated and organic agriculture, as well as for interventions that facilitate the use of sustainable techniques related to integrated, traditional and organic agriculture and enhance the tradition of local entities. Finally, the measure provides for a series of controls and sanctions for infringements of the provisions contained in the text. Finally, I would like to point out that the measure recognises the link between citrus fruits and the territory of origin, the fact that they are an element of characterization and, therefore, also of protection and proper exploitation. In declaring the Group's vote firmly in favour, I would also like to stress the unanimous approval of the Committee on Agriculture and to hope not only for a large vote in favour of the measure by this House, but also for the immediate interest of the House of Deputies so that the final adoption of the law can take place in just as rapid terms. Ladies and gentlemen, these are the reasons why the Group of the European People's Alternative will vote strongly in favour of the adoption of the measure, hoping that the whole Assembly will be able to support the measure. [[Applause from the AP-CpE-NCD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-827.ana.u86	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-827.ana.u87	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-827.ana.u88	DE PETRIS (Misto-SI-SEL). Mr President, the Senators of the Italian Left and the whole of the Mixed Group will vote in favour of the measure because of course we are very much in agreement with a bill which has as its fundamental objective the safeguarding of characteristic citrus groves. I'm sorry the measure comes to approval after two and a half years. We must not underestimate the scope of the safeguard of characteristic citrus groves because the cultivation of citrus fruits is certainly of great importance for our country, not only from the productive point of view. There are about 130,000 hectares dedicated to the cultivation of citrus fruits and these have formed the landscape of many areas; they are certainly an element of identity. I would like to remind myself and this House that two legislatures ago I carried out a measure that concerned the safeguarding of all the agricultural systems that have characterized in a particular way the history of some territories and landscapes contributing to that important work that is the national catalogue of historical rural landscapes: Italy is also this. There is, however, a "but" and we cannot keep it quiet. We have also allowed ourselves, through the amendments - some of which have become agendas - to bring to the attention of the Assembly, the Government and the rapporteur an issue which - alas - is not dealt with by this measure, which comes late and, although positive, is insufficient to face a real crisis in the sector. We must certainly make the most of the environmental importance of the trees, also in view of the traditional characteristics of the agricultural landscape, but we must also realise that there is a crisis in the entire production chain, both in cultivation and in processing. The market data also recently released by Ismea indicate that there is a serious crisis of profitability that remains in the sector - I am addressing, in particular, the Government - which unfortunately puts the survival of companies at risk. So the measure for the protection of characteristic citrus groves is fine, but here I want to draw the attention of the Government and urge it to face also the crux of the crisis of the sector. That is why we have tabled amendments which were intended precisely to indicate the need and the need for such a plan. I just mention some data: oranges are paid less than twenty years ago, with low price points recorded during the 2015-2016 marketing year, up to seven cents per kilo. It is becoming increasingly common, therefore, the tendency not to reap the fruits, as farmers are no longer able to cope with production costs. There is also the problem of the sharp increase in imports, particularly from North Africa, and that of structural delays throughout the sector in terms of producer organisation, transport infrastructure and marketing. A situation that - alas - is likely to explode is becoming more and more aggravated. For this reason it was necessary, in my opinion, to give a signal in this sense, putting hand to some instruments that might have anticipated in this bill (so much more that it remained in the Senate for two and a half years) the plan of sector. Therefore, guidelines could already be drawn up for a sector plan for citrus cultivation, with appropriate funding for the next three years, which would obviously have been devoted to the dissemination of good practices, technological innovation, the problem of irrigation, the strengthening of supply chain policies and integration with the processing sector and thus to ensuring that the weakest link in the chain, i.e. agricultural producers, as is done in a small part of this measure, is supported by those who are committed and working to safeguard the characteristic citrus groves. I repeat, however, that, although this bill is important and although we are particularly linked to the idea of the environmental relevance of these plants, also in order to safeguard our agricultural landscape, we believe it is absolutely necessary to intervene also to give support to the sector in crisis, as well as to give a series of contributions under the de minimis regime. The other key element, contained on the agenda that was adopted, was to ensure that a number of instruments were put in place to increase consumption, especially in schools and by the younger generations. In reconfirming our vote in favour, however, we are here once again to submit to the Government the absolute necessity, before the end of this legislature, to put hand to an organic plan for the sector, because the risk is that while we are working to safeguard the characteristic citrus groves the sector dies, and of course this concerns not only our landscape, which is absolutely fundamental, but also the life of many small companies and many producers. We hope that the agendas which have been approved by the Assembly and which have been accepted by the Government with the positive opinion of the rapporteur will have a rapid implementation.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-827.ana.u89	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-827.ana.u90	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-827.ana.u91	COMPAGNONE (ALA-SCLP). Mr President, if in these days you happen to come to Sicily and land at the airport of Catania or even in Palermo, just before the plane lands, you will see so much green: all that green, especially in the plain of Catania, are our oranges (I say "our" because, as everyone knows, they are Sicilian). If you walk through the streets that go through these orange groves, you can smell it beautifully: an extraordinary and wonderful scent. Here, these are the oranges of Sicily: our gold, the gold of Sicily (and in part of Calabria). When you tend to value this great heritage, which is also and above all economic, as well as cultural, you have to think that behind the crops there are entire generations who have learned to cultivate this gold. Entire generations that, day after day, over the course of hundreds of years have refined an extraordinary cultivation. When we talk about peculiarities, about typical characteristics of a product, I would like to remind everyone in this House, for those who do not know - I know that many are not aware of this - that the Sicilian red orange is a unique in the world; it is because that extraordinary red colouration is such because only there it is formed. It is given by the anthocyanins that fall into the orange and give it that red color. This process takes place only there, in the plain of Catania, and is linked to the thermal excursion that takes place during the night, caused, on the one hand, by the presence of the sea and, on the other, by the snow that settles on Etna. All this determines the precipitate of the anthocyanins in the orange that gives it this extraordinary red color, which is the peculiar characteristic of the Sicilian red orange. Anthocyanins are linked to the extraordinary agro-food and organoleptic capacity of the orange, which is also used as an anticancer and anti-drug substance, because anthocyanins fight the so-called free radicals, therefore have an extraordinary antineoplastic action. This is the red orange in Sicily. Not to mention the economic data; a great economy to which entire generations of Sicilians have been able to entrust their own well-being and the welfare of their children. All this has been put in crisis by a series of mechanisms, especially by that globalization that has led to the introduction of oranges from other parts of the world (where cultivation is not of quality, where products are used that we can no longer use today, where the labour is not paid or is underpaid, therefore we can no longer be competitive), not to mention the costs that no Government, unfortunately, decides to eliminate. I am referring to the lack of infrastructure which leads to an increase in costs, not only in production but also in the transport of the same oranges. In the face of this great crisis, the measure in our examination goes in the direction of protecting this extraordinary good and all that can result, not only in terms of the use of the fresh product but also of its use as juice and of what, as many know, is called pastazzo, that part that remains from the pressing of citrus fruits: indeed, there are countless uses that can be done in the agro-food sector. It is the other day the experiment for the production of flour with which you can make the famous Sicilian brioches, made, precisely, with pasta. A thousand uses can develop an extraordinary economy, so a measure like this, which goes in the direction of the protection of a great cultural tradition and of a fundamental - for us, for Sicily - economic process, cannot but be welcomed by our Group. We will therefore vote favourably in the hope that this will be the direction that the Government will take in the future, in a more comprehensive strategy to protect this extraordinary good for Sicily. [[Applause from the ALA-SCCLP Group and Senator Puppato.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-827.ana.u92	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-827.ana.u93	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-827.ana.u94	D'ALI' (FI-PdL XVII). Mr President, the Forza Italia Group will vote in favour of this measure. However, I would like to clarify a few questions, especially to myself: are we talking about the national citrus policy or are we talking about characteristic citrus groves? Because if we talk about the national citrus policy, to reduce to a fund of three million euros for 2017, obtained within the same funds of the Ministry of Agricultural Policies, it seems to me something very small: indeed, worrying. As always, agricultural measures must be compensated within the Ministry's own funds. Vice Minister, don't want me to; sometimes you convince the Ministry of the Economy to give something more to the agricultural sector, something that is not to be cut out in a kind of war between the poor within the various components of the agricultural sector. I hope that the debate will be brought back to the characteristic citrus groves. I must say then that there is another disappointment within this bill: precisely those who at this moment in our landscape defend the characteristic citrus groves (not wanting to freeze the crispnesses, even poetic ones, of colleagues who preceded me, in some cases) will not be the beneficiaries - if ever there will be - of this measure. This is because they are not professional: they are very small farmers, people who very often live on the hills or in the mountains or even in very rugged coastal areas. However, I repeat, they are not professional persons or members of the agricultural insurance system, as this measure is intended to do. This measure should have been of particular interest to those excluded from the ordinary contributions of Europe, i.e. non-professional farmers. It should then have imposed, in my opinion, two precise conditions. Firstly, the census and the absolute untouchability of these extraordinary examples of agriculture, very often ancient and traditional; therefore, it should have submitted to an exhaustive list from the point of view of the regulatory plans of the municipalities the areas where intervention should be prohibited to root out the trees (the citrus trees, in this case). Secondly, it should also have established a defence against soil consumption by those who are constantly attacking our traditional crops. Of all this nothing is said. The measure should also have exempted these farmers from the agricultural IMU, which, on the other hand, will continue to be affected by the agricultural IMU because they are not professional. In fact, in the great mystification of the elimination of the IMU in agriculture we condemned small traditional agriculture, limiting that exemption only to professional farmers. Most of those who with great difficulty keep the citrus groves alive in terraces, coastal areas, hill areas, areas sensitive to hydrogeological failure are not professional and, once again, will not benefit from this very small intervention. I agreed with Senator Puglia's amendment and voted in favour. I do not understand, however, why your Group has tabled two amendments: one to give that exemption exclusively to professional farmers and the other (with the same signatures or, at least, with coincident signatures) to propose their applicability to non-professionals and very small farmers. I regret to say that, once again, we are faced with a bill that has an excellent title but a content that is almost completely non-operational. If it gives me so much, I can think of the excellent law that we passed last legislature for the protection of trees, which has not yet been applied throughout the country: this provision will have to pass through the State-Regions Conference, the Regions will have to quarrel about how to divide three million euros (we are talking about three million euros) and then they will have to activate the procedures. Who knows which and how many of these moneys will actually reach their specific destination, which then - I repeat - already in the content of the law is not a destination that favours the traditional characteristic citrus cultivation but a hybrid between this and the professional one. Please, let us not talk then about national citrus fruit policy, because in this case we should talk about serious and substantial interventions, we should talk about blocking imports following international treaties with countries that are not part of the European Union and that we do not know how they produce (but in the meantime their products come into our market anyway) and we should defend the great productions; but that is not the context. It comes to mind, Mr President (perhaps you were one of the few present at the time, or perhaps you were in the House), when, in 1994, Senator Moltisanti came to the Chamber with an orange, because she had found that at the senate's buvette the juice was made with oranges with a Spanish label. Perhaps these are the things we should intervene on rather than politically flattering ourselves (even rightly). Maybe we should've put in something about the search for the endangered species. We could have remembered the Pirandellian snails, which perhaps no longer exist in our characteristic biological landscape; we should have descended, in my opinion, into details that this law - alas - does not face. However, since rather than nothing better, we will vote in favour. The rapporteur has defended a very strong characteristic of typical agriculture, that of the Mandarin of Ciaculli in Palermo, which now exists only in the impervious hill areas, because for the rest, intervening in favor of the Golden Conca means defending the condominiums rather than defending the ancient citrus groves that were the pride of Sicily and Palermo in particular. It may be that this bill prompts and stings to really address the problem of Italian citrus cultivation, of those 170,000 hectares of which President Formigoni spoke, which are certainly not included in the forecasts of this law. So we will vote in favour. [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII and Senator Scoma.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-827.ana.u95	Let us remember the question of oranges raised by Senator Moltisanti.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-827.ana.u96	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-827.ana.u97	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-827.ana.u98	BERTUZZI (PD). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, with this explanation of vote I want to highlight a couple of things, taking into account the passionate contributions that have come from the Senators of the Democratic Party, bearing witness to the fact that the subject of the landscape is not a matter of a region and does not concern a type of culture. It is a precious asset, which belongs to the country; in fact I noticed that the senators intervened are one of Trieste, one of Tuscany and one of Sicily. This has an important political value, regardless of the size of the contribution and also the meaning that we have always given to this issue in this House when we dealt with most of the measures relating to the agricultural sector. Through this measure there is the recognition of the interweaving that exists between the traditions and the history of this country, which finally - as we did during this legislature - is recognized as value, which on the one hand increases, the economy and, on the other, characterizes an important part of it. The adoption of this legislation has seen a very long path, started in the 15th legislature. Some of my colleagues were already present in that legislature, but today I do not think they have dealt honestly with the real reasons why this measure dates back to a time of distant thought and in fact comes to the approval only today, despite the hardship that the Deputy Minister has also told regarding a legislature that has had on its way a constant frequency of measures dedicated to the agricultural sector. I believe that we have come to the end of this measure precisely because this was the legislature that managed to put agriculture back at the centre and to recognize the agricultural and agri-food sector as not only an anti-cyclical sector, but strategic for the economy of our country. This measure, which also refers to the characteristic topics and to an extraordinary duration and intervention, establishes the definitive link between agriculture, the territory and a history that we want to recognize in the potential of tradition, but which is also identified in an ability to innovate. Those lands can represent not only the nostalgia of the past, but also new opportunities for development and protection of those territories. The landscape tells our story and protecting those places means not only safeguarding how much more beautiful our country offers, but also having respect for those who continue to live in them and have responsibility for future generations. The landscape thus becomes the result of the past, but also what we want is our future. Any parliamentary result that has set itself the objective of protecting biodiversity coincides with the ability to combine today's development and tradition, the sustainability of the environment and economic growth. The European Convention on the Landscape of 2000 was signed in Florence by the Council of Europe and by all the States which belong to it. It is within it that the principle of the cultural uniqueness of the landscape has been established in its complexity and in its entirety; a landscape to be protected not only with bound areas but also in its agricultural landscape, in urban areas and in the outskirts. The bill that we are preparing to vote on acts in a segment of the landscape, cultural and social heritage in which we imagine that tradition can be innovated by offering to those territories new elements in areas that today are perhaps marginal. Our intervention is useful for this purpose and I believe that we must be very objective in relation to a parliamentary term which also adds these interventions to a number of other measures which have the same direction. I would like to mention, for example, the resources against hydrogeological failure and the interventions we have taken on very specific sectors: olive groves, viticulture, the dairy sector, durum wheat, fruit and vegetables, beekeeping and honey, and the flower industry. It is clear that this intervention is linked to a not merely agricultural concept; otherwise we would have missed this characterization on the citrus groves, on which we wanted to intervene. We have linked this intervention to the Landscape Act precisely in order to recognise the role that Europe still cannot recognize in its measures: the role of farmers and those who do agriculture to safeguard the territory. I conclude by saying that the Democratic Party voted in favour of this measure and thank you for the tenacity we have shown in arriving at the end of your examination. It is another piece that we add to other pieces: I believe that we will be able to draw at the end of the legislature a puzzle that will tell us that all the choices have brought back the agriculture of our country to have its centrality. These are precise choices that are characterizing this sector in an innovative and modern way, where sustainability must be together with respect for biodiversity and where tradition becomes an element on which to build innovation and development. The Democratic Party will vote strongly in favour of this measure and I hope that it will be approved quickly in the House, as was the case at first reading. [[Applause from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-827.ana.u99	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-827.ana.u100	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-827.ana.u101	GAETTI (M5S). Mr President, the need to support and enhance an increasingly integrated, traditional and organic agriculture is becoming a real priority in the primary sector. And the bill we are considering today is the expression of this trend with regard to characteristic citrus groves. On the point, when it comes to the territory of origin, one cannot ignore the numerous citrus areas scattered throughout Italy. From Lake Garda to the Amalfi coast to the Sorrento peninsula, passing through Calabria and Gargano, to reach Sicily, the entire Boat boasts a variety that, however, is not sufficiently valued. With particular attention to Gargano, there is a spread of leopard of citrus cultivation, with an area invested of about 250 hectares. Most of them are grown oranges with blonde pulp, but also lemons and, to a not too significant extent, lemons. It is a territory that, unfortunately, still serves the great damage caused by the flood of 2014, with many municipalities that still navigate in uncertainty and land afflicted by an irrigation system not in step with the times. When it is not the atmospheric adversities that make it master, affecting most of the crops, it remains the great plague of the backward cultivation techniques, with occasional prunings and fertilizations not satisfying the real needs of the plants. Added to this are high production costs, which further penalise the scenario and expose the few farmers left to a definitive detachment, tired of carrying on an activity that does not grow as it should. We come to our proposals, I think of common sense, which unfortunately have not been accepted, such as reducing the deadlines for issuing the implementing decrees of the bill in words. For example, in the identification of the territories in which the characteristic citrus groves are located, in the definition of the criteria and types of interventions and in the determination of the contributions payable, we have asked that the ministries concerned take sixty days and not ninety to issue the decree of reference. In this respect, we have noticed that giving the Commission too much time is tantamount to dispersing it into the void. We have also asked for reasoned criteria in the allocation of contributions. In particular, we ask that the contribution for the recovery and safeguard of characteristic citrus groves should be given priority not only to farmers and professional agricultural entrepreneurs enrolled in their social security and welfare management, but also to particular weak groups, as Mr D'Alì also pointed out earlier: I am referring in particular to small farmers and family businesses and to those who have land that fall within the territories of the municipalities that have been affected by alluvial events, plant diseases or infections of organisms harmful to plants. The same should also be said for the planned contribution to abandoned characteristic citrus groves, as set out in Article 4 of the draft law. This means giving a breath of oxygen to those territories that risk oblivion and that otherwise would not be able to seriously restart the cultivation activity. Furthermore, in the procedures for allocating contributions (Article 7), compliance with the transparency and publicity criteria must be an obligatory step. We have therefore asked that the ranking of the beneficiaries, with the indication of the funds allocated, be published on the website of the MIPAAF, on that of the Region of reference, as well as of the municipalities concerned. Where is the transparency that is so much hoped for? In order to give new life to the sector, we asked for specific contributory benefits to be provided for agricultural enterprises employing staff to carry out the restoration of abandoned citrus groves. As you can see, they are all proposals of common sense, so we do not understand why they have not been taken into consideration, since the bill must return to the House. Having said that, we express our vote in favour of this bill that, although in its inaccuracies and inaccuracies, constitutes a first step towards the protection of an area that risks being supplanted by massive productions and alarming foreign competition; a picture in which, unfortunately, there are more shadows than the lights and where the rule is given by a progressive disposal of the areas invested. In fact, the combination of non-innovative techniques - on the one hand - and insufficient structural measures - on the other - condemns the production of citrus fruits only to local markets. For this reason, I conclude with a clear exhortation, which leaves no room for doubt or interpretation. No more commercials and tips: the agricultural sector deserves - in our opinion - much more. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] We also call for the vote to be taken simultaneously by electronic means.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-827.ana.u102	I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of the draft law as a whole, in the amended text as a result of the amendments introduced by the Commission. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (see Annex B). [[Applause from Senator Formigoni.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-827.ana.u103	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-827.ana.u104	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-827.ana.u105	URAS (Mixed). Mr President, I would like to point out that my vote was in favour.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-827.ana.u106	The Presidency takes note of this, Senator Uras.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-827.ana.u107	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-827.ana.u108	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-827.ana.u109	LUMIA (PD). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, today we remember the 25th anniversary of the massacre in Capaci. On 23 May 1992, at 5.58 p.m., the country was faced with a dramatic event. Giovanni Falcone, Francesca Morvillo, Rocco Dicillo, Antonio Montinari and Vito Schifani were killed in that massacre. Around the Falcone tree, a few minutes ago, thousands of young people flocked from all over Italy to observe a minute's silence, commemorating, around an educational design dimension, the life of Giovanni Falcone, Francesca Morvillo, Rocco Dicillo, Antonio Montinari and Vito Schifani. This morning, in that bunker hall where the maxi trial was celebrated that ripped the veil of the impunity of Cosa Nostra for the first time with a condemnation that managed to reach a final judgment in January 1992, the head of the State, Sergio Mattarella, in his Palermo, was able to represent with clear, firm and decisive words the quality of the work and of the Falcone method. I would also like to mention Tina Montinaro's valuable initiative. This morning, right near Capaci, in the place where the open hole made the country tremble - it looked like an earthquake and it was a massacre - was remembered the Fourth Savona 15, the diction with which the escorts were called. In that place was finally placed the escort car that, dramatically crumpled, represented then the sign of pain but today is the sign of hope, of the path that, in the meantime, our country has completed; a country that away, away has put aside the negationism of the presence of the mafias. How many times have we experienced this devastating and corrosive attitude? As well as the other, perhaps more insidious, the minimalist approach, which takes into account the presence of the mafias, qualifying them however with so many "butò" that eventually brings us back precisely to negationism. The country woke up, made a journey, but still a lot remains to be done in the fight against the mafias. The country has known a partial truth of the massacre of Capaci; it has known the dynamics within Cosa Nostra. It remains to be discovered the system of collusions, of what are called the external leaders, those who participated in the determination of the defeatist season of 1992-1993. I would also like to recall here the massacre of 19 July 1992 in which Paolo Borsellino, Emanuela Loi, Vincenzo Li Muli, Claudio Traina, Agostino Catalano, Walter Eddie Cosina fell. I wish that Falcone's words in that season were never forgotten when, during the Addaura bombing, he said: They're acting very refined minds. Following that attempt to blow up Falcone, on June 21, 1989, Agent Nino Agostino, along with his wife Ida Castelluccio, fell, a woman carrying a child, and then disappeared Agent Emanuele Piazza. And then there were the massacres of Rome, Florence and Milan. I mean, the country has a right to know why the wound is still open. Our democracy is strong, it is ready to know all the truth, even the bitterest and most terrible, because so a country becomes adult and so we can look into the eyes of the new generations, to walk with them to free us from the presence of the mafias, of all the mafias. [[Applause from the PD, FI-PdL XVII, Mixed, AP-CpE-NCD and Aut (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT) and PSI-MAIE Groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-827.ana.u110	Ladies and gentlemen, the Presidency is united with the sentiments of renewed condolences for the tragic story that marked Italian history, that of 23 May 1992, as well as the subsequent massacre of 19 July, which, however, then led to a strong commitment of the State and a legislative activity that strengthened the apparatus of rules to combat every kind of mafia, which precisely from that emergency and from those dramatic hours drew a decisive thrust. He retraced the history of Italy, as the Supreme Council of the judiciary courageously did yesterday, recalling also the moments when perhaps Falcone's work did not have the recognition it would have deserved. The Assembly, with a minute's silence, recalls the victims of the Capaci massacre. [[The President stands up and with him the whole House, who observes a minute's silence.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-827.ana.u111	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-827.ana.u112	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-827.ana.u113	AMATI (PD). Mr President, at the age of eighty years Antonio Papisca, professor emeritus of the University of Padua where he taught International Protection of Human Rights and International Organisation for Human Rights and Peace in the Faculty of Political Science, a faculty of which he was also principal from 1980 to 1983. With Papisca there goes an international point of reference for human rights and not only. It is a great loss: leading the faculty of political science in difficult years, founder of the first University Centre for Human Rights in Europe, awarded the title of Professor Jean Monnet ad honorem by the European Commission. With him, the people of peace lose one of their most significant guides, one of their most tireless animators. His teachings and lessons have been the reference point of political pacifism that has grown in Italy since the 1980s, as has not happened in any other part of the world. Antonio was an extraordinary man, so reserved that he never resorted to the light of the media. For this reason, many do not know how great its contribution to the growth in our country of an authentic culture of peace has been. Antonio was a scholar, a researcher and an intellectual engaged like few others in those movements of Italian society that generate change, participation, commitment and transformation. With Flavio Lotti, sitting next to Father Ernesto Balducci, on March 15, 1991 in Perugia, he launched the campaign for the inclusion of the article "Peace-human rights" in the Statutes of the local authorities and the Italian Regions. Antonio strongly believed in institutions and the institutional path to peace - from the neighborhood to the UN he always loved to say - and effectively described the field of action of peacemakers: from small to large, from local to global. For this reason, since the eighties he has promoted the commitment of local authorities and regions for peace and human rights with a myriad of ideas, campaigns, documents, legislative proposals, agendas, studies, reports and appeals, accompanying the journey of the National Coordination of local authorities for peace and human rights, of the Table of Peace and March Perugia Assisi of peace and fraternity. In that splendid path I met him and with him I worked both in the Regional Council of the Marches and, finally, in the Extraordinary Commission for the Protection and Promotion of Human Rights of the Senate. His family and all those who have worked with him and who will certainly miss him go a big hug from the Senate Assembly. [[Applause from the PD Group and Senator Cappelletti.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-827.ana.u114	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-827.ana.u115	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-827.ana.u116	URAS (Mixed). Mr President, I have asked for the floor to ask, also through your speech, for the Minister of the Environment and Protection of the Territory and the Sea to come to this House to report on the events concerning the discovery of illegal landfills in the industrial area of Cagliari. This is an issue which is under the scrutiny of the judiciary, which has initiated investigations and uncovered the offences. The judiciary has carried out and proceeds, with our utmost care and confidence, to verify the state of responsibilities precisely in relation to the activity of an industrial plant for the transformation of fluorite - the Fluorsid - and to the modalities of storage and treatment of industrial waste, even of a toxic nature. A great political debate has developed on this investigation and the Ministry has been involved in an investigation action that concerns the industrial area of Cagliari, but that could probably be extended to the other industrial areas of Sardinia. A permanent table was formed by the Region, the metropolitan cities and the municipalities concerned. And great is the worry, because the majority of industrial areas that host sites of this nature is neighboring or even includes the wetlands of Sardinia, which are real naturalistic oases protected by international conventions and of great value also for the development of tourism and the environmental enhancement of the resources of the Region. For this reason, Mr President, I would ask the Minister to come to this House and report on this matter.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-827.ana.u117	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-827.ana.u118	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-827.ana.u119	COUNCIL (LN-Aut). Mr President, I am speaking on a subject on which we should cry, but perhaps we should have a laugh. I would like to address a few newspaper articles which, just today, have highlighted a somewhat Kafkiana issue, even though it has been reported by the press, and not only local, for a couple of months now. I'm talking about what happened to a ninety-five-year-old man, an alpine man, Serafino Preda, who still bears today the signs of a Russian anti-personnel mine, with two splinters stuck in his body, which surely remind him of the horrors of war. This good man of ninety-five receives a retirement pension and a small ex-fighter's share. But what neither war nor mine could do was the Fornero law, which provides for the prohibition of cumulation between those two sums. Mr President, we are talking about EUR 8.80 a month, or about 0.27 or 0.28 cents a day. It is money that has been taken from the INPS, even with the request for arrears of what has been paid in the last year. What changes for the INPS with these 8 euros? It's likely that nothing changes at all. I also wonder how many veterans are still alive that can affect the state budget so much, through cumulation. Mr. President, put this money on Fornero! She cried, but with her law she humiliated a lot of people. No one is asking, at this moment, for an economic return, but we believe that it would certainly serve the public apology to this man of ninety-five years, to this alpine man who lived the campaign of Russia. The Fornero cancels 0.28 cents a day of retirement, but does not cancel the memories of this man, his national heroism and his dignity. He said: "The war I did, despite the INPS and despite the Fornero". [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group and the Senators Malan and Puglia.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-827.ana.u120	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-827.ana.u121	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-827.ana.u122	DIVINE (LN-Aut). Mr President, in the Province of Trento - but the problem is much wider - we have experienced a very mild winter season, with a particular February and even an exceptional March; The season was very advanced and the flowering was early; in the two nights of 20 and 21 April, however, there were exceptional frosts on the blooms, which resulted in a total disaster to agriculture. We had an average temperature of three or four degrees below zero, even with peaks of seven degrees below zero, in certain valleys, and it was calculated that this lasted for almost seven or eight hours, causing devastating damage to agriculture. It seems that there is a loss of cherries that reaches 100 percent and the same applies to apricots. There have been very important damage to vineyards and kiwis and apples, which represent the main cultivation of Trentino, is estimated to be a loss of about 50 percent. We still don't have real estimates of the damage. Today's news is that the processing companies have put almost all the employees in cash. We therefore call on the Government to pay particular attention to this event, setting up a provision of funds. I am told that the share of the insured sector is less than 50% and that, in any case, insured persons will receive 80% of the damage they have suffered at most. Therefore, in the next financial manoeuvres, a sum that is now estimated, by default, at no less than EUR 30 million, must be taken into account in order to give a response and a refreshment to all farmers. I speak of the Province of Trento, but the Province of Bolzano has suffered more or less the same fate. It may be significant - or not, since it does not have an agricultural vocation - that Austria has estimated 50 million euros of agricultural damage from frosts. I call on the Government to keep this episode on the agenda and to prepare the right provisions, because it will be necessary to respond to a sector that has suffered almost total destruction in Trentino-Alto Adige and probably also in many other neighbouring Provinces of Veneto and Lombardy. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-827.ana.u123	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-827.ana.u124	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-827.ana.u125	Mr Barani (ALA-SCLP). Mr President, I rise to urge the Government and the Ministries of Economy and Justice to answer my questions, of which I will quote the numbers, and not from other authorities who are employees of the public administration and the government, who should work and not waste time and abuse their office to respond to a senator. President - as you know - a Senator, on the basis of Rule 145, asks the Minister responsible for information and explanations, and the President, on the basis of Rule 146, finds that the question corresponds to the content of the previous Rule and is not misspelled, admits it. At this point she is admitted by the President of the Senate. Instead, there is a gentleman, whom I do not know or even care about, who gets angry and answers my questions. This is not allowed to him, not least because a little scare does not intimidate a socialist; no one has ever intimidated him, much less one who, in order to defend himself, accuses others. The question that made the anti-corruption so disturbing is the 4-07499 of 11 May 2017, with which I ask whether it is legitimate and transparent the supervisory activity carried out by the DAC and if it is not fair and correct to expel Romeo for the Council from the races in which it is involved. This question led to a delirious article being written in the newspaper "Il Tempo." That is why I ask you for the answer to questions 4-06691 of 23 November 2016 and 4-06765 of 20 December 2016 concerning the same subject. In the two questions, which I forgot, there is a common thread: it is Romeo's construction with surnames - names change - that are always the same. President, I have a brother who is a pensioner and collects mushrooms and, when he finds them, we eat them together. This is my family and environmental DNA. Perhaps others have different environmental and family DNA that I do not comment and discuss, but it is certain that to a senator of the Republic representing the Italian people is the Government that gives the answer and the minister competent and not the employees, the salaried, that is, who must think about working and giving answers for the office that occupies and not to be a tourist by chance in the Commune in Rome and of which, even, the Court of Auditors denies the work. President. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: In this last question I make an even more explicit request to the Government and I want answers from the Government itself and not from anyone who thinks he is intimidating a socialist. This will never happen on matters of personal, family and environmental DNA that I think are not inferior to that of anyone else.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-827.ana.u126	The motions, questions and questions received by the Presidency will be published in Annex B to today's report.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-827.ana.u127	The Senate will meet again tomorrow, Wednesday 24 May, in two public sessions, the first at 9.30 a.m. and the second at 16.30, with the following agenda: (See agenda) The sitting was closed at 19.36.
