ParlaMint-IT_2017-04-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-804.ana.u1	The sitting was opened at 16 p.m. The Minutes shall be read. Mr Volpoli, Secretary, read the Minutes of the afternoon sitting of the previous day. PRESIDENT. - The debate is Since there were no comments, the Minutes were approved.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-04-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-804.ana.u2	The list of senators on leave and absent on assignment received from the Senate, as well as further communications to the Assembly, will be published in Annex B to today's Minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-04-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-804.ana.u3	The next item is the holding of questions. The first question will be asked 3-03047 on the shortage of nurses in Italy. The representative of the Government may answer this question.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-04-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-804.ana.u4	Madam President, as is well known, the Financial Act for 2007 (1EGG No 296 of 2006) has provided that the National Health Service bodies contribute to the achievement of public finance objectives, by taking measures necessary to ensure that staff expenditure does not exceed the corresponding amount of the year 2004, reduced by 1.4%. To this end, expenditure on staff with a fixed-term employment relationship, a coordinated and continuous collaboration contract, or service with other forms of flexible employment relationship or agreements shall also be taken into account. The effects of these regulatory provisions have led, in particular in the regions with a high economic and financial imbalance, to the need to introduce mechanisms to limit staff expenditure, including the application of a total or partial blockage of recruitment. For these regions, the legislator then ordered that, if the necessary measures are not taken for the correction of the management deficit, the automatic turnover block of the staff of the Regional Health Service should apply until 31 December of the second year following the current one. The effects of these provisions have in fact led, over the years, to a decrease in the numbers of health workers, particularly in the regions subject to a recovery plan from the health deficit such as Campania, Lazio and Calabria. For the aforementioned regions, as for the others subject to a return plan, the Ministry of Health, in its accompanying activity for the monitoring and implementation of the plan, still makes a constant comparison with the regional bodies on the effects that the reduction of staff is generating on the regional health systems. In order not to compromise the provision of health services at the essential levels of care (LEA), the legislator provided, in 2012, for the possibility of disapplication of the turnover block within the limit of 15%. Subsequently, with Law 208 of 2015, all the Regions and the Autonomous Provinces were called upon to prepare a plan on staffing requirements, containing the exposure of the organisational arrangements taken to ensure compliance with the new provisions of the European Union on the articulation of working time. The same legislation also provides that the bodies of the National Health Service may call, by 31 December 2016, and conclude, by 31 December 2017, extraordinary competitive procedures for the recruitment of medical, technical-professional and nursing staff, necessary to meet any recruitment needs arising in relation to the assessments carried out in the staff requirements plan. However, the national health service bodies continue to make use of the above mentioned staff, including by way of derogation from the provisions in force, in the interests of the completion of these procedures. In relation to this derogation, therefore, the same entities were authorised to enter into new flexible employment contracts, within the limits laid down in Law No 208 of 2015, until the deadline of 31 October 2016, which was subsequently extended by one year. With specific reference to the requirements plans of the Calabria, Lazio, Molise and Sicily regions, precise that they have been evaluated in the context of the work of the aforementioned monitoring table, in December 2016, with reference to the information communicated by the Regions on the staff stocks at 31 December 2015. As a result of these evaluations, where a budget of undersized staff has emerged in relation to the estimated need for the LEA guarantee, the regions have been authorised to recruit and stabilize the professional figures of doctors, nurses and social health workers. Regardless of the contingent measures, aimed in particular at the regions mentioned above, I would like to inform the interrogating senators that the Ministry of Health, in full awareness of the importance of the topic mentioned, has taken, for a long time, important initiatives of system, calibrated on medium and long-term perspectives. In this regard, I would point out that, in order to improve the process of predicting and planning the health workforce, the Ministry of Health joined in 2013 the European joint action on the planning and forecasting of the health workforce. As part of this project, supported by the European Commission, the Ministry of Health conducted a specific line of activity on the exchange of good practice on planning methodologies. The inclusion of the second annual conference as part of the events of the programme of the Italian Presidency is a concrete evidence of the importance attached to this Community project. Beyond the European dimension of the project and the objectives of Community interest set, the joint action has taken on a strong importance also within our country and has brought great added value to the planning and definition of the needs of health professionals, considering that the regional administrations have become protagonists of the so-called pilot project. This project ended on 9 June 2016, with the completion of the agreement between the State, the Regions and the Autonomous Provinces. In particular, the current situation of healthcare professionals has been analysed, with reference to the health system as a whole. At national level, starting from the data on nurses enrolled in professional colleges, broken down by year of birth and gender and crossing the same with other sources of information, it has reached an estimate of the nurses active in the labour market and above all a quantification of the number of nurses already trained and licensed, but still seeking employment. With reference to the data for 31 December 2015, it is a quota of more than 19,000 professionals. However, I must point out that the situation is extremely varied at regional level, with values far above average, for example, in the Autonomous Provinces of Bolzano and Trento, in Liguria and Friuli-Venezia Giulia and considerably lower than the national value in Puglia, Sicily, Calabria and Campania. Analyzing the age pyramid of the nursing population, it was also deduced that over 27 percent of nurses are over fifty years of age and, above all, that there is a strong concentration of workers in the age group between forty and fifty years of age, which suggests important exits from the labour market between fifteen and twenty years of age. In this regard, it is necessary to specify that the current number of places available for access to the degree courses in nursing is to complete exhaustion of the training offer, being the total requirement of the Regions historically superior to the places made available at the universities. In addition, while serving today a percentage of job seekers, the current number of registrations will allow in the future to manage easily the exits due to the future pension scheme, even if there is a higher demand than the current one for these professionals. In summary, the employment situation of nursing staff at system level is well known to this Ministry and it can be said with certainty that the shortage is not of formative character, so much so that, although with a fucking regional variability, the study illustrated above shows that there exists at national level a not indifferent proportion of qualified nurses not yet employed. This issue is therefore closely related to the assumptions imposed by recent financial laws. In this context, therefore, the activity of the Ministry of Health has concentrated - and may be further concentrated - as has been demonstrated, particularly on measures aimed at improving the identification of needs. In this last regard, I inform you, in conclusion, that for the purpose of the detection of needs for the year 2017, whose iter is still in progress, the Regions and the Autonomous Provinces are determining their needs as professionals, distinguished by the individual health profession, on the basis of the methodological principles that - as has been explained - have been agreed during the important pilot project merged into the State-Regions Agreement of 9 June 2016.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-04-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-804.ana.u5	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-04-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-804.ana.u6	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-04-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-804.ana.u7	ANGIONES (PD). Madam President, I would like to thank the Undersecretary for his articulate, unappealable and very truthful and honest response, first of all from the point of view of the historical reconstruction of the need to block recruitment. I find it very positive that the Government itself recognizes a shortage of nursing staff and is concerned about it. And, for the same considerations made a moment ago by the Undersecretary, I too believe that at the end of 2017, with the possible release of recruitment, we can know exactly what the presence of nurses in our country's public health facilities will be. I hope, then, that with the next budget law - but also with measures designed ad hoc in the coming years - we will be able to prevent a further worsening of the situation. I am therefore totally satisfied with the answer.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-04-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-804.ana.u8	The following is the question 3-03183 on the initiatives against the spread of an epidemic among livestock in Veneto. The representative of the Government may answer this question.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-04-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-804.ana.u9	bluetongue (or blue tongue) is a viral disease, transmitted by insects, affecting all domestic and wild ruminants. In order to combat diseases that, like this one, spread through vectors, it is necessary, in addition to indirect prophylaxis (vaccination), also the implementation of a capillary surveillance system, able to detect the viral circulation early, the incursion of any new serotypes, as well as to evaluate the ability of insects-vectors to transmit the virus. This surveillance system, implemented in a reinforced form throughout the national territory in recent years, has enabled early detection of the raids of the different viral serotypes, and to be able to classify the various territories as seasonally free, on the basis of the planned annual frequency. Over the years, in order to deal with this disease, the Ministry of Health has in fact adopted a series of health measures aimed at preventing its spread, including the emergency use - already since 2001 - of the only immunizing garrison available to the world. This vaccine, partially financed by the European Commission's funds, belonged to the attenuated live type: a garrison, therefore, certainly very effective, but which presented contra-indications both in the methods of administration and because it had to be used only in a certain period of time (by 30 April of each year before the resumption of the activity of vector insects). Subsequently, from 2005, the extinguished vaccines were made, which in fact replaced the use of live attenuated vaccines. With regard to the disease situation, I remember that since October 2012 a new epidemic wave has been recorded from Blue Tongue serotype VI, first in Sardinia and then in many regions of Central-South of Italy. Moreover, since September 2014, several raids have been recorded in Italy originating in the Balkan countries, which first affected the Puglia Region and then other regions of the Centre-South. From August 2016, finally, a new epidemic arose that affected, at first, the Veneto Region, having originated in a pasture pasture in the province of Belluno, and then interested the whole Region, up to expand in Friuli-Venezia Giulia, Lombardy and Emilia-Romagna. In order to cope with the latter occurrence of the disease, the Ministry of Health, under the current European legislation, has established restricted zones of 150 kilometers around confirmed cases of disease. As far as vaccination prophylaxis is concerned, this Dicastery has entrusted only and exclusively the task and burden of assessing the opportunity to vaccinate, with regional funds, its sensitive animals, while continuing to maintain the role of coordination and liaison with the European Union, which is also recognised by the Constitutional Court's judgment No 12 of 2004. This being so, it can be assumed that the Blue Tongue serotype V4 entered Northern Italy through the movement of calves coming from areas already infected or due to contiguousness. In fact, some Eastern European countries have been heavily affected by the active circulation of Blue Tongue serotype V4 since 2014, contrasted with partial and ineffective mass vaccination campaigns, so much so that the disease has spread to the West. With regard to the epidemiological situation in the Veneto Region, it can be concluded that, even in the light of the opinions issued several times by the national reference laboratory of the Experimental Zooprofiling Institute of Abruzzo and Molise, the factors that promote the epidemic cannot be attributable exclusively to a late intervention of the same Region, following a lack of mass vaccination and a vaccination carried out only on the wandering and transhumant flocks, but also, and perhaps above all, to the following factors: ecological conditions favorable to the insect vector (wet areas and marshes); high stocking density of species sensitive to the blue tongue; high presence of sheep in the affected areas; high number of introductions of sensitive animals from infected areas. For the sake of complete information, I would point out that, in terms of regional importance, the President of the Veneto Region has indicated that, following the establishment of the first outbreak of bluetongue, the competent regional offices have readily activated, with the aim of preventing the spread of the disease, to determine its effective extension and to solve specific problems, such as the return of animals from the pastures for animal welfare reasons. The President of the Region has also wanted to emphasize that the provision of the Ministry of Health of 14 March 2014, n. 5662, introducing control and eradication measures to contain the possible spread of the virus of the blue tongue in national territory, does not provide the obligatory vaccination strategy, but gives the regions, according to their financial resources, to opt for this solution. In conclusion, I would like to reassure the Senator that the national epidemiological situation is being constantly monitored. Moreover, a revision of national legislation is under way, with the possibility of access by the regions to the funds related to the National Health Fund for the reimbursement of the costs incurred in the purchase of vaccines for the ovine species, in the context of targeted vaccination plans and made compulsory. Finally, I would like to point out that, as far as beef is concerned, there is provision for trade associations to contribute financially to the supply of vaccine stocks for handling purposes.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-04-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-804.ana.u10	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-04-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-804.ana.u11	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-04-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-804.ana.u12	BELLOT (Misto-Fare!). Madam President, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, I am partially satisfied with the answer because the problem of the blue language is now a long one. I would like to remind you that economic intervention in this area was already envisaged in the 2013 Stability Act. This problem has first been found in some parts of our country, but with the years it has unfortunately spread, affecting both the farms and the territories. The Undersecretary has rightly highlighted the regional autonomy that allows to intervene directly on possible vaccination plans. However, speaking with the farmers and listening to their problems, I have found that they are in a position to vaccinate on a voluntary basis the heads of cattle, with burdens on them, being reimbursed only the vaccines performed in the regions that made them compulsory, and therefore through the Region and the Community fund. The categories concerned also showed significant differences in the cost of the vaccine itself, the need to calm down and monitor the proposals from an economic point of view and the honesty of the vaccines. On this point, therefore, I would like to ask the Government to verify, while the groups concerned are asking for the vaccination plans to be made mandatory, not only because of the problems related to the cost of the vaccine, but also because of the death of animals that, unfortunately, the breeders have suffered. The Undersecretary mentioned the last problem that Veneto had involved with the entry of animals into its territories from uncontrolled areas. I therefore strongly appeal to the Government to ensure greater control of the leaders who cross our country. I also call very strongly for this endemic disease to be recognized as a problem which, after many years, still has a strong response to it. I have spoken with a colleague from Sardinia, in whose territories the phenomenon has manifested itself. The problem, therefore, concerns the whole national area and this should make it clear that more attention must be paid to the control of the leaders who enter our country. Mr Undersecretary, a further request that I would like to make is to carry out an action not only of monitoring but also of support for farmers in the case of substantial losses of animals, taking into account the importance of this sector, particularly in certain areas of the country. I come from a mountainous area, the Belluno, which you mentioned earlier, where, unfortunately, the first outbreak of the Region has manifested itself. I think it is important to assess a remuneration not only for the losses suffered, but also because - I repeat - agriculture, livestock farming and all that concerns them represent a strong ecosystem garrison in territories already subject to population impoverishment, and therefore certainly not attractive to new opportunities for activities that we can install, in order to repopulate a reality that must be monitored and managed in the most correct way. In this way opportunities are also offered to other sectors and the territory could become more attractive in all senses, even from the tourist point of view. We all know - and you better than me - that breeding, agriculture and tourism are closely linked to activities related to a well-kept and healthy territory in all senses. Mr Secretary, thank you for your reply, but do not stress that it deals only with a partial aspect of the problem. As we have seen, the issue is a long one, it already has a certain history and unfortunately its effects continue to manifest itself. I therefore ask the Government to check that there is a need for monitoring actions beyond the regional area, to provide for the mandatory vaccinations and to assess the need for a refreshment of the costs that our farmers have to bear.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-04-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-804.ana.u13	Question Time on the agenda is thus over.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-04-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-804.ana.u14	The motions, questions and questions received by the Presidency will be published in Annex B to today's report.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-04-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-804.ana.u15	The Senate will meet again in two public sessions on Tuesday 11 April, the first at 11 a.m. and the second at 4.30 p.m., with the following agenda: (See agenda) The sitting was closed at 16.22 p.m.
