ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-746.ana.u1	The sitting was opened at 16.35 a.m. The Minutes shall be read. Mr SIBILIA, secretary, read the Minutes of the afternoon sitting of 19 January. PRESIDENT. - The debate is Since there were no comments, the Minutes were approved.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-746.ana.u2	The list of senators on leave and absent on assignment received from the Senate, as well as further communications to the Assembly, will be published in Annex B to today's Minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-746.ana.u3	I would warn you that qualified votes can be taken in the course of today's sitting by electronic means. Therefore, from this moment the period of twenty minutes from the notice provided for in Article 119, paragraph 1 of the Regulation (at 16,37 hours) begins.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-746.ana.u4	[[He stands up and with him the whole Assembly.]] Ladies and gentlemen, these last few days have been marked by several events that have caused pain and dismay in the already martyred lands of central Italy. In addition to the continuation of a series of seismic shocks of strong magnitude, which on the day of 18 January again hit places between Lazio, Abruzzo and Marche, the collective feeling was greatly disturbed by the images, in some ways apocalyptic, of the avalanche that, even as a probable consequence of the earthquake, overwhelmed the Hotel Rigopiano of Farindola in the Pesciano. Thanks to the commendable work carried out by the staff of the National Alpine Relief Corps, the fire department, volunteers and all the other people of the police and armed forces, eleven people, including four children, were saved. They are deeply grateful to us and to the entire Italian people. However, this comfort note can only mitigate the traits of a tragedy that currently has fifteen victims and many missing. To this sad picture, it was added a few hours ago the news of the tragedy of the rescue helicopter of 118, precipitated for causes still to be ascertained while he was engaged in the recovery of a wounded ski slope in Campo Felice, in the eagle. In the accident, all six people on board lost their lives. The Senate of the Republic, together with the other institutions, expresses its condolences for the victims and its closeness to all those involved in these tragic events. I therefore call on the House to observe a minute's silence. [[The Assembly observed a minute's silence.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-746.ana.u5	I say that the President of the Council of Ministers sent the following letter: Rome, 23 January 2017 Dear President, I write to you in relation to the dramatic emergency that struck central Italy, with the new earthquake shocks and the exceptional wave of bad weather, to offer the full willingness of the Government to report to the Chambers in the ways and in the times that they will decide. It will assess Parliament if the debate can take place once the first aid operations have been completed and at the end of the emergency phase, in order to allow account to be taken of the evolution of the situation and of the work of the institutions, in due respect for the victims and for the pain of families who have suffered losses. I therefore look forward to hearing about the decisions of the House that you are chairing in order to come personally and report on what has happened. F.to Paolo Gentiloni. Following this letter and subject to agreements between the Groups, the President of the Council will intervene to make an information in the afternoon sitting tomorrow, at 10 a.m. Groups will be able to respond for five minutes each.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-746.ana.u6	I communicate that, on behalf of the prescribed number of senators, an urgent request has been received for inclusion in the calendar of the Assembly's proceedings, pursuant to Article 55 (7) of the Rules of Procedure, of the draft law which delegates to the Government for the reordering of the legislative provisions on the national system of civil protection (Senate Act 2068). The vote on the request will take place at the end of today's sitting.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-746.ana.u7	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-746.ana.u8	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-746.ana.u9	MICHELONI (PD). Mr President, I rise with deep regret to announce the sudden death, on 21 January 2017, in São Paulo, Brazil, of the exponent of the Italian-Brazilian Chamber of Commerce (Câmara Ítalo-Brasileira de Comércio, Indústria e Agricola), Senator Edward Pollastri. Edoardo Pollastri, born eighty-four years ago in Alexandria (August 27, 1932), graduated in Italy in economics and commerce and was an economist, university professor, entrepreneur and politician, as well as senator of the Italian Republic from 2006 to 2008, elected in the foreign constituency, South America distribution. Married with four children, he led several institutions operating in the Italian-Brazilian social and economic sphere and followed with great passion and tenacity the Chamber of Commerce for more than twenty years, becoming President of the Câmara Ítalo-Brasileira de Comércio, Indústria and Agricultural in São Paulo of Brazil and Vicar President of the Association of Chambers of Commerce abroad. Commander of the Order of Merit of the Italian Republic, he worked for years in Ethiopia, as founder and president of the Agricultural Cooperative of Agordat. He was the holder of Asmara's largest accounting firm (up to 1974), with 80 percent of Italian companies in the territory as customers, and professor of the Chair of Business Economy of the University of Asmara. In Brazil he was the founder and president of Visconti (until 2002). He has always been politically engaged, independent of the Margaret area, in the 2006 elections he runs for the Senate for the Union in South America and is elected senator of the 15th legislature. From 2006 to 2008 in the Senate, he joined the Gruppo L'Ulivo is a member of the 3rd Permanent Commission and of the Committee for the Issues of Italians Abroad, as well as president of the school Eugenio Montale of São Paulo and member of the Italian charity society of São Paulo. After being a center-left senator, Pollastri has never stopped engaging personally, with passion and enthusiasm, alongside the great community of Italians abroad and the world of Italian chambers of commerce. We wanted to remember this concrete data for those who did not know him. But together with my colleague Renato Turano, with Edoardo Pollastri, in 2006-2008, we experienced the first experience as senators, elected abroad, in the Senate of the Republic. On that occasion we met a great Italian, who had come to politics with the spirit that almost all the elected abroad: with a sense of service. We tried to serve Italy in the world and Edward tried to serve Italy in this Senate, certainly representing the community of Italians in Latin America, who had read it, but always and first of all thinking about the interest of Italy. We lost a friend, we lost a real Italian. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-746.ana.u10	The Presidency joins in the remembrance, expressing its condolences to the family members.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-746.ana.u11	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-746.ana.u12	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-746.ana.u13	CASINI (AP (Ncd-CpI)). Mr President, I do not want to add anything else, because Senator Micheloni has used beautiful words and never as in this case deeply deserved by a great friend of all of us, such as Edoardo Pollastri. I myself was hosted by him at the Italian-Brazilian Chamber of Commerce, seeing in Brazil the passion, the civil rigour and the great humanity of this man who honored the Senate and the Italians abroad. I would therefore like the record of today's sitting to record that I too, together with the parliamentary group I represent, bow to the memory of the great Edward. [[Applause from the AP Group (Ncd-CpI) and Senator Sangalli.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-746.ana.u14	Colleagues, there is in the gallery a delegation of officials of the House of Advisers of Japan, that is to say the Upper House, then the Senate of Japan. [[Applause]] To them goes our welcome to Rome and Italy and our thanks for the visit to the Senate.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-746.ana.u15	The next item is the continuation of the debate on motions 1-00709 by Senator Casini and other senators and 1-00712 by Senator Bertorotta and other senators on the Venezuela crisis. I would like to inform you that the G1 agenda has been presented, signed by Senator Sangalli, whose text is being distributed. I would ask the presenter whether he intends to explain it.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-746.ana.u16	Mr President, I will not waste too much time in this House by quickly presenting this agenda, which is intended to emphasize - which we already had the opportunity to do in the debate last week - how much there is in Venezuela the strong presence of an Italian community, but also the strong presence of economic interests and investments of Italian companies operating in that country on large infrastructures, large public orders and interventions of strategic value for that country. There are very large Italian companies exposed on that market and there are also medium-sized companies that cooperate and operate within these sectors, especially on the major technological infrastructures (railways and so on). On the agenda, the Government is asked to pay particular attention to these companies, also using those mechanisms of economic support that in other circumstances, at equal difficulty - especially for companies to have payments from the contracting country - have been put in place. In this sense, the Government is committed to assessing the possibility of using instruments of compensation in favour of Italian citizens and companies that boast credits towards the Government and the Venezuelan public bodies, so that the difficulty of that country does not become systemic, involving also the enterprises that now continue to operate there, but that will have to operate even more in the future, when the situation of that country has normalized, to give Venezuela, our friend country, the future it deserves. [[Senator Colucci's applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-746.ana.u17	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-746.ana.u18	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-746.ana.u19	DI BIAGIO (AP (Ncd-CpI)). Mr President, I should like to say that I agree with the report on the G1 agenda. I would like to add my signature. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. The Presidency takes note of this. I call the representative of the Government, and I would ask him to give his opinion on the motions and on the agenda.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-746.ana.u20	Mr President, before I begin my speech, I would like to stress that tomorrow is the day of a sad anniversary for Italy and for all of us, because it is the anniversary of the death of Giulio Regeni, an Italian who lost his life and who we want and must remember here today. [[Applause]] Tomorrow we will promote some initiatives of symbolic value, in our opinion significant: all the staff of the embassy will observe, where he has lost their lives, a minute of silence in his memory and on the website of the representation will be published a photograph and a text that recalls the figure; moreover, we will publish on the website of the Farnesina a similar contribution. Ladies and gentlemen, the government attaches significant importance to this afternoon's debate, to the acts put to the vote of the Senate Assembly and therefore also to the votes on them. I wanted to participate personally, just to mean the importance that we attach, as a government, to the debate on Venezuela and I would like to thank President Casini for having placed the issue at the heart of the Senate debate as a matter of urgency. You will forgive me, then, if I say a few more words than perhaps in these circumstances it is customary to hear, but I think it is a useful time to take stock, on the government side, of the situation in Venezuela. We think this is a very opportune initiative, because we are talking about a country so geographically distant from Italy, as we are very close to it for its history and for the many Italian citizens and of Italian origin who reside there. As President Casini recalled, in the post-war period Venezuela welcomed thousands and thousands of Italians, coming from all the regions of our country, many of whom then remained there permanently, contributing to the development of the country. The figures quoted by President Casini last Thursday in this House make people shudder: 80 murders a day, 20 percent of children underfed, crime skyrocketing and - I add - more than 100,000 people murdered in the last four years. This is Venezuela today. Ladies and gentlemen, some of you have been able to see in person how serious the situation is in the South American country and how uncertain its development is. I would therefore like to thank all those who helped to touch this reality in its crudeness, starting with President Casini, who has recently been on a mission to Caracas; before him, in 2015, it was possible to verify the dramatic situation of President Micheloni and other senators on a mission with the Committee for Italians abroad. I would also like to thank Senator Sangalli for the attention he has shown on this subject. The economic situation in Venezuela is constantly deteriorating, narrow in a deadly grip between the fall in the price of crude oil and the government's economic policy choices. A situation that has eroded popular support for the Government of President Maduro and has allowed opposition forces, coagulated around the political movement called MUD, to obtain in the December 2015 elections a two-thirds majority of the seats in the National Assembly. This has happened - and I stress this - in a normal context of democratic alternation. Since then, however, a dramatic institutional confrontation has taken place as a result of the opposition between the Commission and Parliament, dominated by opposition forces. The Supreme Court, which has become a real instrument in the hands of the Government, states that all acts of Parliament are null and void, as was the case last September of last year. Efforts to engage in serious dialogue have so far led to nothing. Some important concessions are made by the opposition: on the one hand, the renunciation of the referendum and large demonstrations of the streets that could have triggered violence; on the other hand, the postponement of the elections of the governors. Similar openings have not been offered by the Government, in particular as regards the release of the main political prisoners. In this situation of continuing stalemate and increasing tension, the MUD coalition has taken in recent days some drastic decisions that further alienate the prospects of a continuation of the dialogue and aggravate the picture of the crisis. Parliament declared President Maduro to be dead, boycotting the dialogue table set for 13 January and the government responded in a virulent manner, lamenting a violation of the constitutional order that would justify serious repressive measures, such as the arrest of political personalities held responsible for the escalation of the conflict. Fortunately, from the first news that arrives there would not seem to have been significant consequences following the protest march convened yesterday by the oppositions on the anniversary of the expulsion of the dictator Pérez Jiménez. A part of the opposition, moreover, has deserted the initiative, in sign of distrust towards the MUD coalition, considered too renunciation. The Government organised a parallel demonstration, but participation was even less significant. This paralysis of political activity, of course, only aggravates the economic, social and security crisis from day to day. At this point it is natural to ask ourselves a question: what role can the international community play? The Italian Government believes that the international community must first strongly support a dialogue between the Government and the opposition and contribute to overcoming an economic and social crisis that is also of great concern to the entire South American region. It is no coincidence that the situation in Venezuela is the main item on the agenda of the summit of the countries of the Community of Latin American and Caribbean States, to be held on 25 January in Punta Cana, Dominican Republic. On the European side too, attention is constant. The Ambassadors of the countries of the European Union in Caracas are engaged in these hours in drawing up a new accurate report on the situation of the country. Unfortunately, some attempts at mediation have not produced the desired results in recent months. I recall the mediation of the Union of South American Nations of the three former presidents Zapatero, Fernández and Torrijos, with the support of the High Representative of the European Union Federica Mogherini. One point unites all the diplomatic mediation efforts I have mentioned, namely the strong hope that the Venezuelan institutions will resume to function normally, respecting the constitutional dictation and democratic principles and the separation of powers. If you don't start here, you're not going anywhere. In this context, I believe that the involvement of Vatican diplomacy in mediation efforts should be valued and supported, on the direct impulse of the Pontiff. We have long supported the courageous commitment of the Holy See to foster reconciliation between government and opposition, which has led to some results, such as the first meeting between government and opposition held on 30 October. With the Holy See we have a constant exchange of information and assessments on the evolution of the situation. We will continue to support the commitment of Vatican diplomacy, even if in these hours, to witness how difficult a dialogue between the parties in Venezuela is, the Holy See has decided to temporarily suspend the missions of the special Vatican envoy, Monsignor Celli, and to let the Apostolic Nuncio follow the evolution of the situation. I would remind you that in order for mediation to produce results, the Secretary of State himself, Mr Parolin, had requested, in a letter to President Maduro, that four fundamental points be respected: respect for the institutions (in particular for the autonomy of Parliament), the release of political prisoners, the opening of a humanitarian channel for the Venezuelan population and the adoption of a clear electoral calendar. Today I will meet in the Vatican the Secretary of State, Monsignor Gallagher, with whom we will also discuss the theatre of Venezuelan crisis. To Monsignor Gallagher I will reiterate the full and convinced support of our country for the precious work of mediation put in place by the Holy See, despite the difficult conditions I have just mentioned. I therefore apologise to the House if, after my speech, I have to leave the Chamber precisely in order to fulfil the appointment I have just mentioned. Having said that, I would like to make one aspect of the position of the Italian Government clear. We are, as are you senators, aware of the seriousness of the situation in Venezuela. What we want to do is to help that country regain peace and dialogue. It is not, however, our intention to interfere in the internal affairs of a government, also because on the merits of the government of President Chavez and his successor it will be history to decide, as on any other experience of Government. Italy has always respected the sovereign decision of the Venezuelan people to choose their representatives and has always collaborated constructively with every legitimate Government without ever entering the plan of a political and ideological debate. I believe no one can deny that the Italian Government has always maintained relations with both the Caracas authorities and the oppositions. He knows well - and I thank him for the work he has done - the Deputy Minister Giro, who sits next to me and who has visited the country several times - last, at the end of October - meeting both the Government and the main representatives of the opposition. I would also remind you that, at the end of July 2016, my predecessor, today President of the Council, met in Rome with the Venezuelan Foreign Minister, Mrs Delcy Rodriguez, sending her a message of great concern about the situation in your country. Of course, the situation in Venezuela also worries us for all its reflections on the life and safety of the numerous Italian community (about 160,000 people). In order to meet your needs or at least some of them, we made concrete proposals during the numerous meetings we had with the Venezuelan authorities, proposals that were repeated at every opportunity also by our embassy. Unfortunately, to date, our interlocutors have preferred to ignore our tense hand. The situation of Italians in Venezuela is constantly monitored by all our operational structures, both on site and in Rome: the embassy, the consulates in Caracas and Maracaibo, the Crisis Unit of the Farnesina, the Directorate-General for Italians abroad. Farnesina has strengthened the operational capacity of the offices, sending in 2016 five additional units of staff from Rome (three to the Consulate General in Caracas and two to the embassy). I have made arrangements - and this is another novelty I am telling Parliament, partly because it was born after President Casini's visit to Venezuela - for six more units to leave shortly and four employees to be recruited locally. We do not want to stop here, as we need more consular staff, not just in Venezuela, and, after many years of blocking the turnover, we hope to be able to resume this year, thanks to the funds included in the budget law. We also need to increase the current contingent of locally contracted staff in order to be able to carry out new recruitments. In this regard, I welcome the intention of Senator Micheloni to present a legislative proposal allowing Farnesina to recruit local staff, as well as to strengthen the protection of our diplomatic structures. I am pleased that in the debate that took place last Thursday it has been recognized under what prohibitive conditions and with what sacrifices our structures operate in Venezuela. I can only address, as this House has done, statements of esteem and solidarity to our ambassador and to the whole team who, on the ground, in conditions of extreme difficulty, is carrying out an excellent diplomatic mission. [[Applause from the AP Group (Ncd-CpI) and Senators Sangalli and Zin]] Allow me, moreover, to thank this House for the thought it wished to address to the official of the consulate general in Caracas, Mauro Monciatti, who died in Caracas on 6 June last, in circumstances which unfortunately remain unclear. In renewing the deep condolences in this House for its tragic disappearance, I would like to point out that we have strongly asked the Venezuelan authorities, at all political meetings, to clarify what has happened. We will continue to do so until we obtain clear and precise information from our interlocutors on the dynamics of death. We realize that the size of our society in Venezuela is such that the efforts made physiologically are insufficient to fully satisfy expectations and needs. We find, as I said before, the limited cooperation of the local authorities. We have been asking them for more than a year to allow us to provide for the health needs of the Italian community, with a derogation from the ban on the import of medicines, which has not been granted to us. Minister Delcy Rodriguez had personally committed himself to meeting the needs of the community and had been given a list of indispensable and urgent medicines which, however, have never been distributed. Moreover, our willingness to alleviate, through the United Nations, the situation of scarcity in the country of basic necessities has not been more fortunate. Despite this situation, we have achieved some results. As some of you have mentioned, we have finally solved the problem of the exchange rate for minimum pension supplements. It was a substantial measure of justice and I am pleased that, even after some time, we managed to implement it. We have thus succeeded in ensuring that the 3,780 fellow countrymen receiving the pensions most affected by inflation are integrated into the minimum pension in Italy, starting this January. It is an important result, but we cannot and do not want to stop here, so we are naturally prepared to consider other problematic situations that should concern our pensioners. In addition, in the limited margins we have, we want to strengthen the financial resources allocated to our community's assistance. In the year recently concluded, the consular offices in Caracas and Maracaibo carried out a total of 954 assistance interventions. I can assure you that, in this area, we will continue to keep our attention high. Finally, I would also like to mention the action taken in favour of and protection of our companies operating in Venezuela. We have repeatedly pointed out to the Venezuelan Government how the accumulation of heavy credits by almost all our companies is becoming unsustainable. We are obviously aware of the Venezuelan financial situation, but we continue to demand at least a sign of goodwill that reassures those Italian companies that have believed in Venezuela and its development. In the meantime, I have asked for a recognition of the outstanding claims of our companies and our citizens in Venezuela, to assess whether it is possible, among the instruments provided for by the law, to identify ways for them to be compensated and I am pleased that Senator Sangalli has put this issue to our attention today, with the agenda at his signature. The situation in the country today cannot and must not leave us indifferent. Similarly, the 160,000 Italian citizens who live and suffer an unprecedented emergency, immersed in a daily life of fear and anguish for the future, cannot leave us indifferent. As President Casini has already pointed out, we must assume as a country the responsibility not to abandon them. They are Italians who appeal to their country of origin and we have a duty to help them, respecting the principle of sovereignty and non-interference. With regard to the acts of direction presented, the Government expresses a favourable opinion on the first-signed motion by President Casini, to whom I would like to express my thanks - to him and to all those who have signed his parliamentary act - for having promoted this important debate and an opinion contrary to the first-signed one of Senator Bertorotta. I also support the G1 agenda at the first signing of Senator Sangalli. [[Applause from the PD and AP groups (Ncd-CpI).]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-746.ana.u21	Our work is attended by the students and teachers of the Liceo gymnasio statale . "Gaetano De Bottis" of Torre del Greco, in the province of Naples, whom we greet and thank for their visit to the Senate. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-746.ana.u22	We shall therefore proceed to the vote on the motions and the agenda.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-746.ana.u23	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-746.ana.u24	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-746.ana.u25	Comrade (CoR). Mr President, Minister, last time Mr Casini spoke about the motions tabled. Today my explanation of vote is reinforced by the conviction that it led me to sign, at the beginning of last week, the motion that President Casini has as his first signatory. The considerations that the Minister of Foreign Affairs has now made show how slippery the Venezuelan situation has become, week after week: that of Minister Alfano was just a dramatic chronicle of this derapage. The crisis concerns the relationship between the opposition and the government, but it is also something more: it is a crisis on the legitimacy of the parliamentary instrument. From this point of view, I believe that nothing is more appropriate to the situation than a motion of direction from Parliament. In this sense, I believe it was right for the Government to recall the precedents of parliamentary diplomacy which are linked to our concern about the dérapage of the Venezuelan situation. Therefore, at a time when I am voting in favour of our Group on the motion that President Casini has as the first signatory, I wish - as an opposition group, in fact - to express my agreement to the activity with which the Government has tried to strengthen our diplomatic team present on the spot. As it has always been in its best pages, parliamentary diplomacy is not an alternative instrument to the diplomacy of governments: it is a distinct instrument, but, never as in this case, in a crisis of constitutional legitimacy, the most just and the most correct. Hence our vote in favour of the motion tabled by President Casini. [[Applause from the CoR Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-746.ana.u26	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-746.ana.u27	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-746.ana.u28	CANDIANI (LN-Aut). Mr President, before I begin my explanation of vote, I would like to know whether the Foreign Minister has left or whether he has just temporarily left. I see the Undersecretary pointing out that he's gone. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. But the government is represented. CANDIANI (LN-Aut). There's no doubt about it. Stigmatize, however, behavior and attitude. If we have said that this is an important debate, which we hold in a special way, the presence to read a typewritten sheet - in a way that is quite pale and shabby - and then to leave honestly is not a good debut of the Minister for Foreign Affairs in this Senate. We take note of that. [[Applause from the LN-Aut and M5S Groups and the Senators Alicata and Mussini]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-746.ana.u29	Mr Giro is, however, Deputy Minister for Foreign Affairs.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-746.ana.u30	CANDIANI (LN-Aut). Surely the Ministry is better represented by the Undersecretary or the Deputy Minister than by the Minister. We shall vote in favour of this measure, but frankly, Mr President, this is a bad figure: it is the beginning of the Minister for Foreign Affairs in the Senate. He could safely let the Undersecretary or the Deputy Minister make the statement. That said, let's move on. We shall vote in favour of the two motions and the agenda, bearing in mind the importance of the subject and, above all, the interests at stake. And it's not just about economic interests, it's also about natural persons. Unfortunately, in that country there is a situation of such degradation that the safety and safety of our fellow citizens, like that of the citizens of Venezuela themselves, are also put at risk. We believe that the intervention may be too late, but there is and we will support it, because that can only be the case. We hope that the Government will pay particular attention to the agenda presented by Senator Sangalli, which also provides for important compensation and refreshment for the activities and interests of our citizens in the country we are dealing with, namely Venezuela. A resolution, an agenda or a motion have a relative value if they are not implemented. We will see what will be the capacity of our Ministry of Foreign Affairs - I am talking about the institution and not the natural person - to give continuity and implementation to the measure that we will approve today. Of course we expect that the path is not just formal. It would be very disappointing if the motions presented last week and a few hours ago - after last week we had postponed until today, with the aim of seeing them together in a single measure - were driven only by the desire to say that we tried to intervene, but we did not think that we were pushing sufficiently in the direction of solving the problems in question. I therefore vote in favour of the Lega Nord Group. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-746.ana.u31	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-746.ana.u32	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-746.ana.u33	COMPAGNONE (ALA-SCLP). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the crisis that is affecting and affecting Venezuela certainly stems from the Presidency of Chavez which, since 1999, has imposed on the country an economic model based on state centralism, autarchy and policies hostile to private enterprise, leading to isolation precisely at the time of the greater development of globalisation. Such a closed idea of the economy and the fact that they have focused everything on oil in the long run have proved to be wrong and explain much of the situation of deep crisis in which the country has fallen and above all of the social instability that has achieved it: not by chance in 2014 the vertical collapse of oil prices brought Venezuela close to the financial default. The result of this process is that, in 2016, gross domestic product fell by 10% on an annual basis, while inflation is skyrocketing; in this context it is therefore explained why the number of Venezuelans applying for asylum in the United States and neighbouring Brazil is growing. The same Italian community, very present in Venezuela, is very damaged by the economic policy choices made by Chavez: expropriations and progressive impoverishment of the population have in fact destroyed that middle class necessary for an adequate productive society. By now, instead, society is degraded, as evidenced by the annual reports of authoritative NGOs, according to which in 2015 Caracas was the city that recorded - as has already been said - the largest number of murders in the world. Among the violent episodes that are all too often recorded we also find Italian victims: I refer, for example, to Roberto Annese, murdered in 2014 in Maracaibo under circumstances still to be ascertained and to Matteo Di Francescantonio, killed on March 2, also in this case for reasons unknown. Moreover, in 2015 and 2016, under the chairmanship of Maduro, former deputy of Chavez in the last months of his mandate, there has been a further contraction in the protection of human and political rights. They recall the declaration of the state of emergency in some provinces of the country and then a reform that calls into question the principle of separation of powers, especially in relation to the judicial one. All these signals are certainly very serious. It is therefore clear that prompt intervention by the international community is essential, and that is precisely what we are asking the European Union as well: we need a strong dialogue with Venezuela in order to ensure that, even in the interests of the Italian community and companies operating in the country, we can overcome the phase of systemic crisis that has been going on for too long. For these reasons we supported Senator Casini's first-signed motion and, therefore, I also announce our Group's vote in favour on the agenda signed by Senator Sangalli. [[Applause from the ALA-SCCLP Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-746.ana.u34	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-746.ana.u35	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-746.ana.u36	ZIN (Aut (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT)-PSI-MAIE). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, first of all I would like to vote in favour of the Group for the Autonomies - PSI - MAIE on the first-signed motion by Senator Casini. Dear colleagues, in a country like ours, which often did not allow itself to build a future of peace and work, thousands of Italians were forced to look for it in Venezuela. This research has undoubtedly contributed to the economic, political and social development of Venezuela as well as Italy, through the economic aid that was offered as a contribution to families remaining in the country. They were real economic migrants - as we would say today - that Venezuela has welcomed and that, still today, it hosts. A careful attention to this country by Italy is therefore necessary and, therefore, let this opportunity come to discuss the problems that today afflict Venezuela and our community of Italians. The economic crisis scenario is then intertwined with a profound political and institutional crisis. President Maduro governs, in fact, with a strong opposition in the National Parliament (Asamblea Nacional), as confirmed by the last parliamentary elections of December 2015, which gave a very strong majority - two thirds, as already mentioned - to the opposition group. However, recent decisions of the Venezuelan Supreme Court have attempted to delegitimize the democratically elected Parliament. I would also remind you that the regional elections of December 2016 did not take place and were postponed by the Sine Die Government, as well as a revocatory referendum on President Maduro, who had also collected millions of signatures, as required by the Constitution. In the light of all these problems, I would like to stress the importance of the meeting between the Holy Father and Mr Nicolas Maduro Moros, which took place on 24 October last afternoon, in the context of the worrying political, social and economic crisis in Venezuela. Pope Bergoglio, having at heart the good of all Venezuelans, wished to continue to offer his contribution in favor of the country's institutionality and of every step that contributes to solving open issues and to creating greater trust between the parties. He invited us to take the path of sincere and constructive dialogue with courage, in order to alleviate the suffering of the people, the poor in the first place, and to promote a climate of social cohesion, which allows us to look with hope at the future of the nation: words to be understood as a warning from the Holy Father and not as a gesture of approval towards the terrible crisis that afflicts Venezuela today. My appeal to our Government, in line with what is indicated in the motion, is therefore to move by taking an active role, proposing its diplomatic ways for the resumption of dialogue between the parties, as did, or attempted to do, the former President Zapatero months ago. Italy cannot remain timidly at the window, in the face of the growing crisis that this friendly country is experiencing. There is no doubt that the Italian proposal must be presented without being perceived and interpreted in any way as interference. Instead, it must be assessed as a concrete, disinterested and neutral aid, with the ultimate aim of protecting our community of Italians living abroad. In my opinion, we must answer a question: do we want to help those Italians or not? According to me and my Group, the answer to this question is yes, which is why we believe it is necessary to support the motion tabled by President Casini, who commits our Government, in its capacity and with its limitations, to alleviate its consequences, through an extraordinary plan of assistance that strengthens - for example - the diplomatic-consular network in support of the Italian community in Venezuela. I conclude with a very brief personal reflection: we are all aware of the urgent problems that today affect Italy, but this must not at all lift us from our duty to take care of all Italians, even those who are not in Italy, but who are always Italians. For all these reasons, Mr President, I repeat the support of the Group for Autonomies - PSI - MAIE for the motion tabled by Senator Casini and others. [[Applause from the Aut Group (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT) - PSI-MAIE and Senators Bignami and Casini.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-746.ana.u37	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-746.ana.u38	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-746.ana.u39	De Cristofaro (Misto-SI-SEL). Mr President, last week I was one of those who did not simply ask for a postponement of the debate that we are holding today, but above all wanted to find a synthesis, or at least to make an effort to ensure that the Italian Parliament, if it had to deal so urgently with the Venezuelan issue, at least did so by seeking the unity of the political forces that make up it, without putting us in a position to express ourselves on different motions. This has not been done and I think it is a mistake. And for this I must announce that the Italian Left member of the Mixed Group that I represent will vote against the motion at first signing Casini and a vote in favour, instead, on the motion at first signing Bertorotta. And we will do so because we think that a crisis as serious as the Venezuelan one, which also involves many Italian citizens - as has already been said - would have deserved a very different approach to what has been followed. I regret to say this because, over the course of these years, I have always acknowledged to our Government, and also to the Commission on Foreign Emigration, of which I am a member, a certain balance and a certain caution in addressing some particularly thorny international issues. I have to say that, despite an opposition position, I have always tried, especially in the field of foreign policy, to reason in the least ideological way possible and to be able instead to try to actually understand if our country could put in place a foreign policy that could also have its autonomy. I regret to say this to President Casini, but the autonomy of Italian foreign policy and also of our Government in the motion we are debating is not really a trace of it. I'm sorry, because this is a missed opportunity. This motion is not an attempt to mediate between political parties, partly because perhaps that is not even the role of the Italian Government in such a situation. But it is not even a motion that shores up with the work - in my opinion very significant and very important - that has tried to make the Holy See during all the last months. That work, on the other hand, is indeed based on the importance and centrality of finding elements that could be of benefit to the dramatic social condition of a large part of the Venezuelan population and of marking an element of autonomy. I'm sorry to tell you this, but this motion really seems to be written under the dictation of the Venezuelan opposition. And I find this, Mr Casini, very wrong, partly because I am willing to discuss the limitations of the Chavist governments of recent years, but I would ask this Parliament for a little more respect for governments that have repeatedly submitted themselves to popular judgment. For many years the Venezuelan people voted in a certain way: on the last occasion - as we know - they rewarded the opposition, but within a typically democratic dynamic. I would ask for more respect when taking stock and identifying those responsible in such a superficial way. I am not talking about the reconstruction that the governments that have been there in recent years are the cause of the social disaster that has occurred in Venezuela and instead there would be a virtuous and democratic opposition that we even cite as an example of a good way of doing politics in that country. I also address the Democratic Party: ask the parties that are with you in the Socialist International; ask the parties of the South American Socialist International - not those of my political side, but those of your political side - what they think of the way in which the Venezuelan opposition has led some events in recent years. Within that Venezuelan opposition - in the motion, on the other hand, we ask indiscriminately for the release of all political prisoners - there are certainly people who have been the bearers of a democratic motion, but also the real coupists who have animated that kind of political battle in recent years. I would have expected much less superficiality from the Democratic Party on a delicate point like this. I insist that you should have had more attention at least in the interloquire with those Latin American democratic and progressive forces that have a much more articulate judgment than what is written in the motion, which, on the other hand, both in the descriptive part and in the device seems to me completely deployed. When trying to make a contribution to a situation of difficulties present in a country and also to support the diplomatic activity that - yes - with great rigour the Holy See has carried out over the years, one avoids putting in place a totally unbalanced reasoning on the one hand. I certainly do not want to defend what the Government of Maduro has done over the last few months and I think it is absolutely legitimate to put in place very serious elements of perplexity even with respect to the Government of Maduro. One thing, however, is to say this and another thing is to make what has happened in Venezuela over the years appear to be a kind of judgment of univocity of political judgment, when there have been very serious events even in the streets that have honestly not seen, even in the opposition sectors, all the democratic fervour that is being called up today. In short, to be so prone to the right and the extreme right Venezuelan I believe that there is a very serious political error. And, it seems to me very curious that the Democratic Party and also President Casini, whose balance I have always recognized over the years, especially in the ability to interpret the foreign policy of this country precisely in the best tradition of a certain history of how foreign policy was done in Italy in the past years, especially and above all on the side of the autonomy of our country. On the other hand, such an approach leaves me very perplexed. As you know, in this House I am among those who have never had any particular problems contesting many of the things said and done by the 5 Star Movement over the years, and I certainly will not do so over the months and years to come if I have to believe it. Well, I find far more balanced and diplomatically correct the motion of the 5 Star Movement, which tries to deal with the situation for what it is, is not crushed on the government or the opposition and actually tries to make a contribution. I shall vote for it for once without any embarrassment, and I am very surprised that Parliament puts us in a position to express this kind of vote from here to a few minutes. [[Applause from the Mixed Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-746.ana.u40	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-746.ana.u41	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-746.ana.u42	CASINI (AP (Ncd-CpI)). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like, particularly with regard to Senator De Cristofaro's last statement, to avoid adding words to my other sitting and to the impeccable ones of Minister Alfano today. I would just like to remind Senator De Cristofaro, who classified this as an atypical motion, that it follows exactly the same one approved by the Socialist Group and the European People's Party in the European Parliament and follows the main motions approved in the main European countries. I would like to remind him - he may not know or have forgotten - that Venezuela has been suspended by Mercosur and that the considerations taken up by Minister Alfano, in relation to the commendable mediation of the Holy See, which we strongly support, have brought the attention of world public opinion to a letter that Cardinal Parolin wrote to President Maduro. The four conditions for the Holy See to sit at the negotiating table were - I am talking about facts, not my opinions - the following: respect for parliamentary institutions; free political prisoners; humanitarian channels to be established; electoral timetable to be carried out. De Cristofaro perhaps forgets that electoral consultations have been suspended at the level of governors. Therefore, this motion is in the wake of the tradition of the best Italian foreign policy, of what today support the nine tenths of the international community. As for a statement made last sitting, according to which I would go to Venezuela contrary to what should be my traditional imprinting, forgetting or neglecting the initiatives of the Holy See, I would like to point out here that I have neglected them so much that I have met the Apostolic Nuncio, the president of the Venezuelan Episcopal Conference and the Cardinal of Caracas, as well as countless prelates who had in different roles assisted the negotiations that are under way. Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, I am sorry, but there is one point where we come to where foreign policy cannot be vile in supporting some basic ideas that should be the common heritage of this Parliament: respect for the legitimate governments - and this applies to Venezuela as well as to all others - and respect for Parliament and the autonomy of the legislatures. If we are willing to transition on these points, then you will open a very dangerous page for us too. [[Applause from the AP Group (Ncd-CpI) and PD.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-746.ana.u43	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-746.ana.u44	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-746.ana.u45	PETROCELLI (M5S). Mr President, something has changed since last week. Last week, undersecretary Pizzetti went up to our desks to ask the first signatory of the motion of the 5 Star Movement, my colleague Bertorotta, to accept some changes that the Government proposed to the motion: in this case, in fact, the Government would have given a favourable opinion to the motion itself. Today this favourable opinion is no longer tracked, after our Group, on the other hand, accepted the changes proposed by the Undersecretary Pizzetti. But something has changed from last week to today, if Minister Alfano came to the Chamber - then of course he left, as he often does - and my colleague Giro, because obviously from the picnic or almost picnic made by President Casini last week it was necessary today a high profile support, and this high profile perhaps is called Angelino Alfano. Evidently, however, Senator Casini can still today things that normal senators are not granted. In fact, Senator Casini managed in a few days, in a very short time, to have the President of the Senate authorize an individual mission to Venezuela for the days from 27 to 30 December 2016. Senator Casini can also read the text of an article published by the "Corriere della Sera". But if it is true that a girl belonging to the groups of human rights activists is being stopped at the border between Venezuela and Colombia, while returning from a trip to Brussels, it is also true that this girl - whose full name is Stacy Brigitte Escalona Mendoza - at the time of the arrest was together with Gilber Caro, deputy of Voluntad Popular, a political group of opposition to the Venezuelan Government, who apparently had a machine gun of type FAL (light automatic rifle), with a number of series deleted, belonging to the Venezuelan military forces and three panetti of explosive C4. If this were true, according to Senator Casini, a jihadist, stopped at the border between Italy and Switzerland, could also be unfairly accused of carrying explosive material and weapons to Italy and could also be referred to as a civil rights activist, perhaps Libyan, Afghanistan or Iraq. But obviously President Casini can. I therefore believe that it should be clear whether or not we can consider all the premises of President Casini's motion as advice to the government of a friendly country or whether it should rather be a kind of veil passed by opposition to the Venezuelan government. Something has changed since last week because in the premises and considerations of President Casini's motion there is no reference, not even a word, to the process of dialogue initiated by the Holy See: there is not even a word, not even in the commitments that President Casini submits to the Government. What is contrary, however, is present in the motion of my colleague Bertorotta, where explicit reference is made to the process of dialogue, a process for which the Venezuelan Government is sitting at the table with the Holy See, while much of the opposition, which someone considers as a coup - but it will be the story to say - is not sitting at that table. So what has changed from last week to today? Perhaps President Casini felt intimately rebuked by himself for skipping that passage, for a man of his history and so close to the Catholic Church and the Curia? I say that the situation in Venezuela, certainly, with the shortage of food, basic necessities and medicinal products, in the motion of Senator Casini is entirely on the responsibility of the Government. That is why your motion is on the table. And the situation he foreshadows is very similar to that of Chile in 1973. Salvador Allende's nephew says that today's economic war in Venezuela is very similar to the Chilean situation: rising prices, food shortages, grabbing, smuggling, real and induced inflation, all of this is the same as what happened in 1973. These are the words of Salvador Allende's nephew. So what is the meaning of what the Casini motion proposes to us, to export democracy to Venezuela? We have already seen many examples of the export of superpower-led democracy, and we certainly do not agree. Let us not forget whether we can, as an Italian Parliament, promote the export of democracy without having the strength of it, as the United States of America did when it did, and not even reap the benefits that the United States itself has reaped from the export of democracy. And then we are against, as a 5 Star Movement Group, Senator Casini's motion, the haste with which he imposed the debate in this House, the instrumental use of the concerns of the Italian community, when - it is not appropriate to repeat - this haste would be necessary for many other measures. My view is that this is an ancient way of dealing with foreign policy. Evidently, however, Senator Casini can still impose his practices, which are policy dinosaur practices. I do not know how long these practices will last objectively; the dinosaurs have rightly become extinct. In the meantime, however, we declare our vote in favour of motion 712, at the first signature of Senator Bertorotta, and our vote against motion 709, at the first signature of Senator Casini, and we support asteroid. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-746.ana.u46	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-746.ana.u47	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-746.ana.u48	D'ALI' (FI-PdL XVII). Mr President, first of all I should like to make a very brief comment. Minister Alfano considered, by expressing the Government's position and the opinions on the motions, to speak on the sidelines of another subject. But, in addition to that, I would have liked him to have also spoken about the subject that I asked for in the last session, namely the machine gunning of an Italian fishing unit by Libyan patrol boats. Therefore, I repeat the strong and unhesitating request, Mr President, that the Government come to report on that episode, absolutely recent, intolerable and unsustainable, because it was perpetrated against Italian workers, in a seaside area where, among other things, the Italian State is present for patrol against irregular migrants. This is intolerable. That being said, let's get to the subject. Already last time we had announced our vote in favour of the motion by President Casini and indeed we had given our willingness to do so at last week's sitting; and then it was decided to arrive today. This has been decided opportunely, because it seems to me that a note of further clarity has finally come from the Government. While last time the government was trying to find compromise solutions, this time it seems to me that there is a clearer position. I would like to hope that this will be a clear reversal of what has been done in the past by distinguished predecessors of Mr Alfano or other ministers. We remember the obsequient visits made to Chávez and also to his successor by Di Pietro, D'Alema, Bertinotti and other representatives of Italian governments, of course on the left. We share Mr Casini's first-signed motion, but - I do not want my colleague - we consider her to be lacking in certain aspects. Do we want to talk about the Bolívar state uranium mines being treated by Chavez with Iran in order to provide that nation with material to equip itself with nuclear instruments? Do we want to talk about the persecuted politicians who are still in Venezuelan prisons and journalists? Here one always pays particular attention to the fate of journalists who allow themselves to criticize governments of a somewhat absolutist matrix - let's call it that - but there is also a constant and continuous strabism and goodness on the left for this. We must not touch the regimes that arise from populist events. On the contrary, it is necessary to touch on regimes which arise from very often democratically expressed facts, but not of populist origin. It may be that - finally - the Italian Government and Parliament can be a little more objective. I am sorry that colleagues whom I value very much - I am thinking of the Senators of the Italian Left - even censor the demonstrations of the square, which have legitimately filled our country for decades. Some piazza events, made in countries managed by epigons of the international left, instead become subversive manifestations. We take note of these statements. We would like to be as objective and fair as possible to respect democratic standards in our country as in other countries. We are therefore absolutely convinced that action must be taken in the most appropriate international fora so that manifestations of anti-democratic intolerance are censored and, where possible, avoided in other countries as well. We've moved armies. The very democratic exporter of democracy - I am referring to the American nation - has moved its own armies and others to impose its own democracy or that of oil interests in other parts of the world. There are, however, some totems which, especially in this Parliament, could not be touched so far. Today we note that we enter into the real life. I hope that this debate will continue and have its follow-up in Venezuela, as well as in other states with governmental expressions of strong dictatorship. Perhaps President Casini will no longer wink at me having said these things, but I do not know how appropriate it can be at this time to lean on Vatican diplomacy. I do not know: it may be a useful tool, but at the moment it does not seem to me to be a very objective diplomacy even in the evaluation of South American dictatorial phenomena. In any case, we can freely and I hope peacefully discuss this too. On behalf of the Forza Italia Group, I repeat the vote in favour of the first-signed motion by Senator Casini and against the motion of which Senator Bertorotta is first signed. [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-746.ana.u49	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-746.ana.u50	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-746.ana.u51	Sangalli (PD). Mr President, I rise to vote in favour of Senator Casini's first-signed motion. The vote naturally stems from the fact that this motion, in the critical remarks that have been heard, seems not to have been sufficiently read or in any case in-depth. The motion starts, first of all, from the consideration for which we consider Venezuela a fraternally friendly country of Italy. It is a country in which some 160,000 of our fellow citizens live and with which relations, both cultural and civil and economic, are very active. It is a country of which we share the serious concerns arising from its political situation and, even more so, from its serious economic situation. It should be recalled that Venezuela has seen a transformation of the Chavista regime also in relation to the evolution of the oil price and the fact, perhaps, of not being able to take advantage of the opportunity at certain moments of its history or when oil allowed it, to create structurally a clear alternative to its economy. It is a strategic country for the world because it is one of the largest oil producers. It is part of OPEC and it is the country that has the largest reserve of oil and other hydrocarbons among all the world countries. It is a country, therefore, with great prospects, provided that they see the Venezuelan people involved in a process that democratically must allow it to come out of different seasons characterized by a strong deficit of democracy. Chavez's experience was shared and supported at a certain time by the Venezuelan people. It was also an experience corroborated by the fact that the economic condition was not what the country is going through now. When the economic situation becomes difficult, it also complicates the possibility of obtaining a widespread consensus. When the economic situation becomes difficult, it is the moment when it is necessary to bring out one's feelings and democratic style in order to allow Venezuelan democracy to grow, precisely in order to meet the needs of a country that lives an economic labor that largely does not depend on the same. Our motion is in favour of Venezuela and democratic freedoms in the country. I would like to remind you that in the Venezuelan Parliament the opposition is almost 60% of its members. The Venezuelan Parliament has no say in the legislative process, nor in the confidence of the government. Legislative initiatives in that Parliament have been dismissed by the Venezuelan Government and Supreme Court, which is a direct expression of the Government. The relationship between the Government and Parliament must be restored - we are asking for this - to its democratic normality. When Parliament represents a people that, by majority, now expresses an alternative to the Government, at least legislation and government should adapt - hopefully in Venezuela, as in any other country - to the prevailing will of the people. We don't stand up for opposition against the Venezuelan government. We have made our own in the motion that we are tabling - I am sorry that this paragraph has not been noted - the process of political dialogue, initiated also thanks to the Vatican mediation, which now appears blocked, as we were told earlier by Minister Alfano, President Casini and the Vatican hierarchies. It is blocked because the relationship between government and parliament and between the Executive and oppositions has tightened. The leader of the Popular Will Party, Leopoldo López, was imprisoned and sentenced to thirteen years and nine months imprisonment. Now he is in Venezuelan jails and we observe a condemnation of this type with a sufficiency that I have never felt under other circumstances. Ledezma was mayor of Caracas; Manuel Diaz, murdered, was leader of Accíon Democratica: we are not talking about a coupist opposition, but about a profoundly democratic opposition. Inside the opposition cartel there are certainly also oppositions that do not participate in the democratic culture of that country and, in fact, the Venezuelan opposition has also divided. There is therefore a need for strong international action that starts first of all from support for the population of Venezuela, which is experiencing a situation of extraordinary poverty and social degradation. Caracas today appears to be the city with the highest crime rate in the world, the highest amount of crime committed compared to the population of any other city in the world. It means that we are facing a very serious social degradation, which concerns us for the friendship we have towards this country, for the Italians who live there and also for the important economic interests that we have in that country. The course of action that prefigures Vatican diplomacy is included in this motion and represents our line of conduct: respect for all Venezuelan institutions; the release of political prisoners, such as those who take thirteen years and nine months of imprisonment, such as Antonio Lopez, for having held political opposition; respect for humanitarian initiatives that allow Venezuela to have access to medicines and food for the Venezuelan population and the poor people who currently have no access to international aid; finally, the preparation of an electoral calendar that allows to restore a relationship between the people and the government of that country. Well, it seems to me that this motion cannot, frankly, undergo many changes, because it is genuinely democratic, close to the Venezuelan people and close to the values that have always inspired our international policy action. This does not mean taking part for one or the other or exporting democracy, but supporting democratic oppositions where they are put in a position to not exist and whose exponents are put in jail. I also want to answer those who asked last time why we deal with Venezuela when we have so many problems in Italy: when we talk about international politics, whatever the country we have to deal with, the fact remains that we always have so many problems in our country. I would like to remind you - given that the Government has accepted our agenda on this matter - that Italian companies of great size, but also of small and medium size, are engaged in Venezuela, with contracts for 10 billion euros, to build the Venezuelan railway system, that connects all Venezuela, vast country and for very little electrified part: they are great Italian enterprises, like ENI, Astaldi and Impregilo, but also medium enterprises, that they are part of their network of specialization, as well as small enterprises that operate on site. They are partly companies of Italians who live there and are part of our 142,000 countrymen in Venezuela. In part they are Italian companies that are located there precisely because of the fact that with Chavez's Venezuela it was intended to open a constructive economic relationship, recognizing to that country the steps it was taking, while now it has changed the horizon, the reality and the system in which they are carrying out their action. Therefore, for the Venezuelan people, for their democratic evolution, for their political prisoners and for the many friends who are now in the prisons of Venezuela, as in other countries, and for the line of the Holy See that is a constructive mediation line, supporting all this, we will vote firmly in favour of motion No 709, because we think in this way to show total coherence with our history, our way of seeing things and projecting this coherence into the future, whatever country regards this future. [[Applause from the PD and AP Group (Ncd-CpI).]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-746.ana.u52	Before we proceed to the vote, I warn you that, in line with established practice, motions will be put to the vote in the order of presentation. Following the vote on motions for resolutions pursuant to Rule 160 of the Rules of Procedure, the G1 agenda will be put to the vote. We shall now proceed to the vote on motion No 709. CANDIANI (LN-Aut). We call for the vote to be taken by simultaneous ballot by electronic means. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I call on Senator Casini and other senators to vote by a simultaneous vote on motion No 709, tabled by Senator Casini and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (see Annex B). We shall now proceed to the vote on motion No 712 (correct text). Mr Calderoli (LN-Aut). We call for the vote to be taken by simultaneous ballot by electronic means. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of motion No 712 (correct text), tabled by Senator Bertorotta and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (see Annex B). We shall now proceed to the vote on the G1 agenda. Mr Calderoli (LN-Aut). We call for the vote to be taken by simultaneous ballot by electronic means. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I call on Senator Sangalli and other senators to vote by simultaneous ballot on the G1 agenda. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (see Annex B).
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-746.ana.u53	The next item is the debate on document XXIII, No 18. The report has already been printed and distributed. I call Senator Vaccari to explain the report.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-746.ana.u54	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the anti-Mafia Parliamentary Commission, since the beginning of its work in this parliamentary term, has put the issue of mob infiltration in the gaming and betting sector at the heart of its investigations. One of the fourteen committees, which I chaired, the Anti-Mafia Commission entrusted the specific task of analysing the mafia and criminal infiltrations in the legal and illegal game and of carrying out an investigation also with a view to the formulation of appropriate legislative proposals, which are usefully included in the legislative process in progress in the relevant parliamentary committees. The gaming and betting sector has, like few others, a strong multidisciplinary character. It involves sensitive issues relating to taxation, social aspects (I am thinking of all issues related to pathological gambling), relations between the State and self-government, anti-money laundering legislation and, last but not least, interference and relations with the world of organised crime, including mafia-type crime. It is, indeed, an area that requires a holistic approach on the part of the legislator, that is, to consider all these aspects of the game as a whole, legal and illegal, precisely because they are closely interdependent and interconnected. [[Brusio.]] Mr President, I apologise but I cannot really read the report.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-746.ana.u55	Excuse me, Senator, but when you go to another subject there's always a bit of confusion. Colleagues, we are listening to Senator Vaccari's report on the announced document on the phenomenon of mafias. I would pray that the work of this House will be smooth. You're welcome, Senator.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-746.ana.u56	The Commission has therefore set itself the objective of combining this requirement with the limits of mandate conferred by the law establishing the Parliamentary Anti-Mafia Commission. We have thus come to the conclusion that the right balance was only possible by exploring and deepening the criticalities of the world of gambling and betting in all its perspectives, insofar as they were found to have an impact, even indirect, on the action of organized crime and, consequently, on the anti-mafia policies of the country. From our hearings we have seen the sense of a real malaise of the game system, of which the many more recent judicial investigations are perhaps just a clue, the tip of the iceberg of the enormous interests that the organized crime has towards this sector. Also the high rate of administrative regularity (about 32%, according to the controls detected by the Customs and Monopolies Agency and the Finance Guard in 2015 in the context of their routine inspections), shows that the environment of state gaming is still permeable and vulnerable to illegality. The report approved by the Parliamentary Commission on 6 July did not fail to stress strongly among the various points how crucial it is to remedy the identified vulnerabilities of the legal game system and how it is necessary to take certain measures that are first of all on the concessionary moment and that must then be broken down into a legal and operational environment of substantive legality, up to the last link in the chain of the gaming chain, no operator excluded. The main findings of the Commission's work, which was based on investigation, conducted within the X Committee through sixteen hearings and a survey at the operational headquarters of the Customs and Monopolies Agency, are attributable to five regulatory areas: anti-money laundering measures, the role of local self-governments, barriers to entry, the repression of illegality and the new governance of the sector. To this we added two recommendations to the government. Firstly, the Commission considers that action is needed to strengthen the anti-money laundering legislation applicable to the sector, with the aim of increasing transparency of the capital invested in the public gaming sector and traceability of the gambling operations that take place mainly online. In fact, we have detected an increasing use of virtual currencies (bitcoins) in Internet transactions and among them also those related to online betting, or used in so-called virtual casinos. There are some indications that even in our country virtual currencies such as bitcoins are starting to be used to feed live gaming accounts with providers at the moment not attributable to regular dealers who accept bets also in Italy. Virtual currencies are not issued by central banks or public authorities and do not constitute legal money, nor are they comparable to electronic money; however, as they are easy to transfer, preserve and trade electronic, they are increasingly used, at least internationally. The main criticality related to the use of bitcoins, like other virtual currencies, lies in the fact that the exchange of wealth takes place on the Network between entities that are not easily identifiable and that can operate in different states, including those that do not ensure effective judicial and police cooperation or lacking in anti-money laundering legislation, both preventive and repressive. Added to this is the fact that entities carrying out activities that are functional to the use, exchange and preservation of virtual currencies and to their conversion from or to legal tender currencies are not as such subject to the rules of adequate identification, verification of customers and registration of transactions provided for by Italian and foreign anti-money laundering legislation. We have therefore stressed in the report the urgent need to intervene in the field of virtual currencies, so as to make it more transparent and traceable are not the gambling operations, but all the transactions that exploit this cryptocurrency mechanism. We note with satisfaction that the appeal made by the Anti-Mafia Commission has not been heeded. Work has recently begun at European level on the development of a new anti-money laundering directive (the fifth directive). According to the text drawn up by the European Commission, as amended by the Council, providers providing legal tender currency exchange services (the so-called "custodian wallet provider") will also be subject to anti-money laundering rules, i.e. they will have to be authorised, identify those who use bitcoins and, in case of suspicion, report transactions to the competent authorities. On the delicate relationship between the territory and the spread of gambling and the role of local authorities in this area, the Commission has focused on the final report on the interesting elements of evaluation provided during the hearings also by the ANCI and Public Notice. It was concluded that the state and local self-government should soon reach an agreement that ensures an overall gaming offer, which the report defines as ethically and territorially sustainable. We have thus indicated in the report, in the final proposals, how this could be achieved. The hearings showed that the excessive dusting on the territory of the different types of play points did not facilitate controls. The criticality is more strongly felt in the areas of the country where the investigating authorities are already engaged in the fight against organized crime or terrorism and where these are more rooted in the territory. It is therefore necessary to offer regions and local authorities the possibility, either as an alternative or in addition to the types of game points now planned, that their share of the game offer is concentrated in a limited number of places of play considered safer. Such a solution would, of course, also facilitate the execution of controls. Therefore, certified gaming rooms with characteristics could be established to reduce the risk of criminal infiltrations or in any case of illegality such as, for example, staff with moral requirements, specific training, selective access to entry, complete identification of the adventor, full traceability of the games, winnings and installation of internal video surveillance devices similar to those provided to traditional casinos. Moreover, in the distribution criteria on the territory of the gaming offer, it must be taken into account that the various areas of the country have different crime risk profiles, as well as different, from place to place, is the propensity to compulsive play or dependence on pathological play. The situations of tension and social degradation are also different. Several indices have been drawn up to take account of these factors, including the Mafia presence index of the Observatory on organised crime at the University of Milan. In essence, the anti-Mafia Commission has emerged the conviction that, without prejudice to the planning that will result from the agreements at the unified conference, it is necessary that local authorities, first sensors on the ground able to grasp situations of danger and social degradation and the spread of illegality and discomfort related to the game, are given the opportunity to cope adequately and promptly with this situation. Local authorities will have to be supported with promptness and adequate resources in the adoption of measures aimed at remedying unforeseen emergency situations also through the allocation of extraordinary resources to enhance the operation of local police and social services. The Commission has also examined the gaming and betting sector and its impact on criminal dynamics also over a long-term and systemic horizon on the sensitive supervisory and control mechanisms of the sector. Given that, as has been widely reported above, the risk of infiltration concerns not only illegal gambling but also the lucrative market of state-granting gambling, the Commission considers that the whole system needs to be re-examined in a more structured way, in order to link compliance with anti-mafia and anti-money laundering legislation with administrative inspections, tax checks and continuous and widespread monitoring of electronic and computer technologies, a system that is able to ensure, for example, the continuity of the process, the sharing of information and the coordination on computer security of critical networks functional in this sector. In this context, the Commission hopes that the forthcoming reform of the games that will be discussed in this House will pave the way for a new model of governance of surveillance in the field of gambling and betting, also based on the centralisation of any data or judicial information relating to gambling. I would remind you that the Fourth European Anti-money Laundering Directive also explicitly provides for the need for the gambling sector, which is considered vulnerable to money laundering as well as banks and financial institutions, to be adequately governed by a supervisory authority with enhanced powers. There is also a need to further strengthen the barriers to the entry of the public gaming system in order to close possible barriers to organised crime and their forerunners. The basic requirements currently laid down for participation in tenders or public evidence procedures in the field of games and betting have shortcomings as well as the requirements for the issue and maintenance of concessions in the field of public games. The rules in force do not, for example, include in the context of acts of obstruction, offences against public administration, typical offences related to calls for tender, domestic and international terrorist offences and the most serious cases of tax offences. In view of the fact that the gaming market is increasingly an internationalised and integrated market at European level, it is also necessary to include among the obstacles the sentences issued abroad, at least for the crimes of organised crime, corruption and money laundering. In order to strengthen the barriers to the prevention of the legal game system, it is necessary to extend the application of the legislation to a number of entities currently excluded to which these provisions apply only partially. (Applause from the right) The anti-mafia and morality standard must, that is, be homogeneous for all players in the public gaming chain, from the top downstream, be the dealers of online gaming collection networks, of operators of equipment or of third parties in charge, of producers or importers of gaming equipment. Similarly, systemic intervention tends to standardise the timing of competitions for gaming concessions, which are all too often banned in the near future in terms of the expiry of the concession through spot measures and often poorly meditated on the consequences of imperfect standardisation, including in terms of prevention. For the future, it is essential that operators of companies based abroad also have an obligation to grant or authorise police officers to protect public policy interests. Another very important aspect is the repression of illegality. The Commission's anti-Mafia focussed on the need for the legislator to carry out a timely review of the criminal sanctions framework. The measure of the current penalty for gambling and betting offences does not, in itself, allow the activation of telephone and telematic interceptions, which are absolutely necessary to ascertain the way in which criminal infiltration is carried out, increasingly characterized by the use of technological tools and by the field of trans-national operations. Similarly, the penalty to be imposed for the most dangerous conducts should be such that the limitation period should be extended to a reasonable time so that investigations, usually very laborious, can come to a complete conclusion so as to reveal the actual size of the illegal activity and its possible links with complex criminal realities such as those of the mafia type. As for the world of concessionaires, the anti-mafia Commission considers that a deep and urgent intervention is necessary to make more responsible the behaviour of the companies to which the management of the activity is entrusted, true strategic heart of the system of the legal game, regarding everything that happens downstream of the respective supply chains. In the case of dealers, a civil liability must be configurable in the supervision or in the selection of the owners of the points of play. Thus, a necessary increase in the financial penalties for the downstream operator directly responsible for the infringements would result in a presumption of co-responsibility of the dealer, unless the dealer proves that he has not done everything possible to prevent, control and continuously monitor the conduct of the holder of the point of play. Not only that. It is necessary to provide, by filling another obvious gap, for the liability of the management companies of the point of collection of bets and of data transmission (so-called CTDs), pursuant to Law No 231 of 2001 on the administrative liability of the institutions, as well as of the companies in which the amounts of the collection of illegal bets are paid and which provides the provision for the payment of the winnings and the percentage due to the organisers of the collection. However, it will be necessary to provide for extraordinary instruments that can be adopted if necessary in order to cope with higher risk situations that could occur in the local area. I am thinking of cases where local communities experience a dangerous spread of juvenile play or an extraordinary spread in some urban districts of the dependence of pathological play, or when it is necessary to face the risk of infiltration or conditioning of organised crime in the public sector. All situations determined on the basis of concrete and unique elements of fact. In these cases, a valid tool for immediate intervention could be a kind of DASPO on games and bets, for example by establishing by law the conditions and modalities for the public security authority to order the closure of one or more points of offer of game, or the exclusion of the relative network of collection of the game, present in a given territorial area at risk. Finally, the report by the Parliamentary Anti-Mafia Commission, in addition to the legislative proposals already mentioned, considered it appropriate to make two recommendations to the Government. The first concerns the threat of cybercrime on the critical infrastructure of legal gambling based on telematics and telecommunications networks. These infrastructures must be protected from attacks by hackers, whether or not linked to Italian or international crime, which could also gain significant benefits from temporary blocks of the gaming system, noting, for example, that the computer network of public games coordinated by the Customs and Monopolies Agency is not one of the critical infrastructures of national interest monitored by the National Cybercrime Centre. All this makes our system as a whole particularly vulnerable from possible attacks by the most advanced mob organisations or terrorist networks. In this regard I take the opportunity to ask officially, as a colleague of the House has already done, what are the data relating to gambling in 2016, divided by type of game, regions and provinces. The answer to my colleague is that they will be ready in May 2017. It is not tolerable, given all the computer systems that the Agency is equipped with, that it accumulates a delay so consisting in the evaluation of data related to the game of 2016. Finally, with the second recommendation, the Parliamentary Anti-Mafia Commission invites the Government to work towards the implementation of the contents of the resolution approved in the same text by the House and the Senate in 2014 at the end of the examination of the report also presented by the Anti-Mafia Commission on the European Semester and the fight against Mafia crime on a European and non-European basis. The resolution calls for appropriate action to be taken to adopt harmonised, or concerted, measures at European level to avoid the penetration and infiltration of organised crime in the field of distance gambling, in particular telematic betting, video poker and online casinos. The critical signals of the national system of games and betting, coming from the numerous judicial investigations, from the concerns that in different areas of the country the social community manifests towards the gambling and the related pathologies (I think of the work that is carrying out the campaign "Let's put ourselves at stake," under which twenty important national acronyms are gathered) and from the initiatives of the local authorities that increasingly take measures to limit the spread of the gambling points must not be ignored by the Parliament and the Government. The hope is that good intentions will quickly move on to the facts and that the process for reforming the gaming and betting sector will soon be started and concluded, which has remained unfinished for too long. [[Applause from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-746.ana.u57	I declare the general discussion open. Senator Perrone is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-746.ana.u58	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to begin by thanking the President of the Anti-Mafia Commission, Mr Rosy Bindi, Senator Vaccari, who chaired the Committee on Mafia infiltrations into the illegal and lawful game, and all the colleagues who took part in this long and challenging process, which led to the drafting of this important document. A work which, we hope, the legislator will be able to translate into new and different measures, which are able to adapt to the continuous evolution of gambling which, unfortunately, provides an always different access key for those who transform the lawful game into criminal activity. The report approved by the Anti-Mafia Commission on 6 July laid down precisely and thoroughly the reality by which gambling becomes a flywheel for the mafia and the underworld, through which they manage to evade state controls or to launder dirty money. In particular, the conclusions of this work have revealed a progressive emergence of the illegal activities attributable to the mafia organizations, especially thanks to the work of our Forces of Order. The observation of these criminal phenomena, moreover, has led to the identification of those shadow areas within the gambling system that, if eliminated, will maintain the legality of the activities inherent in the field of the games. The fact that the report has been unanimously approved by the Anti-Mafia Commission is a positive signal which will make it easier to prepare and approve those legislative measures which will complement the work carried out by the Anti-Mafia Commission. Having said that, I would like to undertake a reflection on the phenomenon of ludopathy, which turns out to be a social problem that affects, in a different way, the whole of the national territory. In Italy there are about 15 million gamblers who, only in 2015, spent 88 billion euros in gambling related activities. If we consider that the total consumption of Italian households amounts to 850 billion, it means that 12% of household spending is directed to gambling. These figures give us a clear indication of the spread of this phenomenon, which paradoxically the economic crisis has accentuated: while families once saved more, they now invest their future in the game. This means that the phenomenon of gambling cannot and must not be addressed solely from the point of view of preventing the illegal activities connected with it, especially of the mafia type. We are in fact faced with a socially relevant problem in relation to the dependence produced by pathological play. It should be added that, as noted in the Commission's anti-mafia investigation in 2003, the State has changed the objective of its decisions, making gambling a real economic sector, a source of revenue that is currently unforgoable: we are talking about an industry that has more than 6,600 companies and an employment area of about 200,000 employees. On the other side of the coin, on the other hand, we have three million people who are at pathological risk and about one million who have developed a real disease at the game. These are citizens who belong mainly to the weakest sections of the population (unemployed, retired, young people), who seek refuge in the game from a reality that denies them a job, a home and a dignified life. It is not by chance that the regions most affected by this phenomenon are those of the Centre-South, where unemployment, especially youth, has reached unacceptable percentages. On the one hand, therefore, the State invests in gambling as an indispensable source of tax revenue which, for example, only in 2016 the Court of Auditors quantified in 1.8 billion euros of higher revenue. On the other hand, we know that the State spends about 6 billion euros on pathological players, so much so that Law No. 189 of 8 November 2012, has included ludopathy in the essential levels of care, with reference to the performance of prevention, treatment and rehabilitation aimed at people suffering from this disease. It is therefore clear that this is a major phenomenon which, after alcohol and drugs, turns out to be the third form of addiction. This ambivalence of the State, which on the one hand has an interest in feeding the gaming industry, while on the other it uses public resources to prevent and cure the diseases related to it, has impoverished families and has made life easier for the criminal organizations that manage to commit crimes. This discussion gives me the opportunity to open a reflection, which I extend to all my colleagues present, on the role of the State in this matter. We can take virtuous paths, such as the one that led to the drafting of the report that we are discussing; we can decide to adopt more accomplished legislative measures to oppose lawlessness, especially of the mafia type; but if it is the State that backs up its positions in order to get economic resources into the public funds, without proceeding with cuts in expenditure or increases in taxes, it is obvious that all these paths are frustrated. I am referring to the pardon granted by the Letta Government, to the ten companies that have been found guilty of not having connected their machines to the Monopoly network which, as a result, could not control the games, losing a revenue quantified by the Court of Auditors in almost three billion euros. Despite this, in 2013 the Government reduced the fine to 857 million, in order to cash immediately. Similarly, the stability law of 2015, launched by the Renzi Government, provided for a sanatorium for illegal betting rooms through the payment of a penalty of 10,000 euros, in exchange for an income of 500 million per annum to the treasury produced by their activities. A sanatorium that the law of stability of 2016 has procrastinated, since the number of operators who have legalized their position has been below the expectations of the Executive. These are sanatories through which the left-wing governments that have moved on in recent years have cashed in, to the detriment of the work of law enforcement of the law enforcement forces against illicit games and the work of social and health prevention that the municipalities are implementing, with many difficulties, to protect the communities of citizens of their competence. We are talking about exhibitors who have been operating for years without being connected to the national totalizer of the Monopolies, through which mafia crime has been able to operate undisturbed. If the entertainment equipment (the machines) is not connected to any network, there can be no data transmission to the dealer and therefore no trace remains of it. The tampering of the telematic system through alteration of the gaming devices is then one of the most recurrent causes through which the legal game becomes illegal. Escape and recycling, in fact, go hand in hand. In today's report, the need for a reflection on the compatibility between an action of real contrast to illegal gambling and mafia infiltrations and the constant use of sanatoria has been highlighted. Having said that, I would like to add a few comments on the impact of gambling at local level. For some time now, local administrators have raised the problem of managing playrooms on the ground and their impact on the population. In the Centre-North of the country, for example, the phenomenon is growing, because the catchment area is on the rise because of the presence of young people who are increasingly dedicated to online gaming. In the South, however, the percentage of players is higher, but the catchment area is set to stabilize in the coming years due to the migration of young people, who leave many municipalities populated predominantly by elderly people. There are also territorial dimensions in which the massive presence of criminal organizations facilitates illegality in gambling, which in some cases is even perceived by the community as a normal activity. In this perspective, thinking about solutions that fall within a single cauldron appears to be a failure approach. With regard to authorisations and controls, there is an increasing urgency to create a regulatory framework of uniform rules for the whole legal game system, which provides for full control of the Forces of Order and a system of authorisations all in the hands of the police. In the same way, local authorities must be guaranteed the possibility of spatial planning in agreement with the regions. In fact, it is precisely in the municipal territories that the impact due to the presence of the gambling rooms raises more concerns about social tranquility, public health and in terms of increased crime. In these emerging situations, several local administrators have responded with restrictive orders aimed at limiting opening and closing times or through security measures aimed at moving authorisations to more peripheral areas or in any case away from sensitive places (such as schools, churches, institutional sites and parks), until reaching restrictive measures that provide for the prohibition of opening gambling rooms in their territories. These reasons prompt us to urge local and regional administrators to set up a permanent platform for the planning of playrooms on the ground, guaranteeing the municipalities the necessary administrative and public order controls. It is our hope that the unified conference will soon lead to the establishment of an agreement - which is already under way - which will take on board these needs. Let us not forget that it is the local administrators who interact every day with their community of citizens and who have to deal with public service and public health issues, without having the necessary tools to prevent a problem from becoming a local emergency. I should like to conclude with a brief mention of online gambling, which is probably becoming the biggest snare to be faced in the context of illegal and lawful gambling. In fact, there are no people or places to track down, everything is evanescent, like virtual reality itself. Online gambling is not only an Italian concern, but an international concern. There is therefore no national response to an international problem. It is therefore desirable for the Government and the majority to work towards the implementation of the fourth anti-money laundering directive, aimed at defining cooperation rules that are effective within the Community. For the same reasons, I reiterate the importance of following up the work carried out by the anti-Mafia Commission in the short term and in line with the end of the parliamentary term, so that its twenty-three proposals can become interventions. In conclusion, I announce the Conservative and Reformist Group's vote in favour of the report presented. [[Applause from the CoR Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-746.ana.u59	Senator Council is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-746.ana.u60	Madam President, when examining this report, it is right and proper to make a premise which cannot but start from the current economic situation, which is higher in terms of intensity, duration and spread in global markets even than in 1929. The crisis has also invested our country, imposing a policy of reducing costs aimed at the consolidation of public accounts, with consequent depressive and recessive effect, so as to generate a widespread impoverishment of citizenship. At such a dramatic time as what the country is going through - I remember that the data are not encouraging at all, despite the current and the previous government tear their clothes to tell us what does not exist - work, economy and employment are certainly not in line with European data. It is therefore necessary that the legislator and the Government are able to protect that guarantee system that is based on respect for the principles and values that represent the engine of a civil country. It seems that this is a very difficult task for the current government and also for the previous government. The sacrifices to which citizens are called in order to find the right stability in public and private accounts, which never return, and to be preserved from possible dramatic epilogues even at family level, must be accompanied by constructive investments aimed at safeguarding the fundamental structures of society, in the first place the family. The continuation of the economic crisis is the cause of dangerous social phenomena, such as the reduction of the propensity to save and the search for easy enrichment based on aleatority. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group]] According to data from the National Anti-wear Council, gambling is considered the biggest cause of recourse to debts and/or usury in Italy. The main social cost generated by the exponential increase in the use of gambling is over-indebtedness of households. Game addiction - ludopathy - is one of the main causes of suicide. According to data from the Autonomous Administration of State Monopolies, the gambling market is divided mainly between slot machines (56.1 percent), online games (16.3 percent), lotteries (12.7 percent), as well as lottos (8.5 percent) and distance skill games with cash payouts (a percentage equal to 7.7 percent). Of the 30 million gamblers estimated today in Italy, 15 million are regular gamblers and at least 3 million of them are at risk of developing a disease. According to some estimates, a share of these people - some 120,000 - already suffer from pathological gambling behavioral dependence. In view of the fact that gambling is prohibited by the penal code, it has been introduced in the country the game with participation at a distance, i.e. the license, granted to various companies, for the management of online gaming devices, with a considerable increase in turnover for the concessionary companies. Not surprisingly, in recent years the gambling industry has become one of the most important in the country, so much so that slot machines, poker, betting and gambling have, by their very nature, become a money machine and have flooded the market at ever more hectic paces, with considerable growth in the number of players, involving every social group (including pensioners, housewives and young people) and making Italy the first country in the world for spending per capita dedicated to the game. According to the latest available data, compared to the approximately 85 billion euros collected through state games, there would be 23 billion euros gross of black gain for criminal and mob groups. These figures give a clear idea of the seriousness of the situation and its implications in economic and social terms. Let's think about the ludopathies, now considered a real pathology and inserted in the essential levels of assistance: with one pathological player for every 75 people, gambling is fully considered a serious social plague for which it is necessary an incisive and immediate action. The game should not be prevented but should not be facilitated; rather, it must be regulated even more organically, with structural reform both on the supply side and on the supervisory side. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group]] This premise was necessary and absolutely necessary to understand how complex the issue is if there are also massive situations of mafia infiltrations. At this point, the report drawn up by the Committee chaired by Mr Vaccari, which has been entrusted with the analysis of mafia and criminal infiltrations in the lawful and illegal game, is an important step forward. Madam President, the Committee's task has certainly been to carry out a thorough examination of the various issues relating to the complex system of games. The work has had the fundamental contribution of police forces, local administrations, customs agencies, experts and associations and prominent members of the judiciary. Already in the debate in the House, it was hoped that the report would be approved by trying to move the proposal against the excessive spread of gambling, which lies in the Social Affairs Committee. The Commission's proposals must strike a blow to the criminal gains and bring out the hypocrisy of the institutions, which are now infiltrated by the gambling lobby. Madam President, judicial investigations have shown that criminal organisations on a large part of the national territory easily impose on businesses that insist on the same territory, on which they exercise the mafia dominion, devices that, when they are regular, ensure huge and rapid gains and, at the same time, generate huge profits if they escape the tax system. When it comes to rigged devices, most of the time, they prevent players from winning. The element that attracts the crime of the mafia type is, in fact, the non-traceability of economic flows. In view of the significant revenues, it becomes very complex to ascertain illegal conduct and the legal consequences are rather slight because of an existing sanctioning system that, due to non-high edittal penalties for the crime of illegal gambling, does not allow the use of the most effective investigation systems. It is also soon to be prescribed. On this point too, a somewhat different system is needed, which the Commission has certainly assessed on a timely basis. The Anti-Mafia Commission report on mafia and criminal infiltrations into lawful and illegal gambling is a document to make the sector more transparent, controlled and clean, but it is not enough if the government does not act quickly to tighten up the rules on granting concessions, to extend controls across the chain and increase sanctions and anti-money laundering measures. Action must be taken to harmonise national legislation, at least in the European Union, especially for online gambling. Madam President, does it make sense to legislate if the activities are carried out abroad? We need a review of the sanctioning apparatus also through suspension measures such as the DASPO, a strengthening of the anti-money laundering law through the traceability of the winnings to the game, an involvement of the local autonomy, in particular for the distribution of the offer of game on the territory. As far as this last point is concerned, good work has already been done, at first instance, by the regions which, together with the municipalities, have had regulations. We hope, Mr President, that the document before us will be able to give a hard blow to the profits and, consequently, to the criminal and mafia organizations. We have carefully read the report, on which we have already expressed our opinion in favour of the House, and we will try to ensure that this document does not remain isolated, but can be revised, supplemented and supplemented in the near future. Some actions are certainly undertaken as an experiment, since there is already a law that provided for the disposal of 30 percent of the slot machines, but with a fleet of machines that counts hundreds of thousands of machines in the stores, the norm has been bypassed rather easily. Mr President, as a North-League Group, we are pleased with the report, and we believe that the Committee chaired by Senator Vaccari has done an excellent job. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-746.ana.u61	Senator Albano is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-746.ana.u62	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, it is with great pride that we are here today to present before this House the result of a long work carried out by the Parliamentary Anti-Mafia Commission, of which I am honoured to be a member, on criminal infiltrations into lawful and illegal play. For several months, during 2016, the X Committee has analysed not only the regulatory framework for the gambling sector, with its shortcomings and its criticalities, but above all has studied the vulnerabilities to mafia and criminal infiltrations in the game, both lawful and illegal, finally making legislative proposals that the competent parliamentary committees I hope can take into account as soon as possible. Despite the many differences and discussions we have seen in these years of work in this House on this important issue, we have always found convergences that go beyond political and party views, because we believe that everyone has at heart both the health of our fellow citizens, put at risk by the serious phenomenon of ludopathies and an effective contrast to the illegal activities of organised crime. And it is, unfortunately, clear the link between legal play and crime. Thanks to the work of the judiciary and the forces of order we can say with certainty that the mafia organizations have been able, over the years, infiltrating among the folds of the system, to draw from it remarkable economic benefits. However, thanks to a timely monitoring and repression activity, which has also been undertaken by the Customs and Monopolies Agency, the authorities have been able to identify and regularise many of these activities, through recovery of taxes, complaints and criminal seizures, together with measures of a precautionary nature. I would also like to stress that this issue is particularly important to me. The battles I fought against opening new slot rooms in my city, as you know, have unfortunately put me in the crosshairs of organized crime. Yet, aware of the importance of the matter, I have decided to continue to fight. The mafias, as is evident and as the Commission's report correctly reports, see in the game a highly profitable business. On the one hand, it makes it easy to recycle huge amounts of illegal money; on the other hand, it allows huge profits to be made even in the beehive of legality. It scares me, therefore, to think that the growth of legal games has gone hand in hand with the increase in bosses' revenues, although the two things may seem, at first sight, in contrast. The report makes an interesting historical excursus on the evolution of gambling in Italy, perceived since the early 1990s as a phenomenon of high ethical disvalue and therefore to be pursued and countered. Over the next decade, while remaining perceived as a substantially negative phenomenon, the game becomes an increasingly important source of tax revenue, also with a view to contributing to the reduction of public debt. Finally, since 2003, the objective of the public decision-maker has changed significantly, which sees gambling as a real economic sector, leading to a dizzying increase in the offer of different types of games, becoming more and more an important part of the composition of private consumption of Italian households and the revenue that the State collects. This, in fact, goes from almost 48 billion euros in 2008 to over 80 billion euros today, for an industrial sector that has over 6,000 companies and employs about 200,000 employees. So, ladies and gentlemen, if in Italy where, according to the latest and inaccurate research, we have 15 million regular players and at least 800,000 pathological players, I ask myself - and I ask you - if it is not up to the State to put every possible measure in place to reduce, as much as possible, the dependence on the game by contrasting, at the same time and in a decisive way, the presence of criminal organizations within the sector. The report informs us - but we know very well - that criminal activities in the field of games are lurking in the faults and interstices of the system: tampering, signals and connections that jump, anomalies that often correspond to operations of control bland or not timely, transactions that take place in the shadows, anonymous payments, subtracting from taxation the majority of the revenues produced by the use of appliances. I would like to recall here the decision of the Constitutional Court, which in 2015, stated that it is right that governments and public administrations restrict the organisation and management of the public games entrusted to the concession, in order to guarantee a particularly high level of consumer protection and master the risks associated with this sector, thus allowing us to introduce new and greater restrictions on the game, explicitly declaring that the prevailing public interests are not in the profits of the operators, but in the contrast to the spread of the irregular or illegal game, in the protection of security, public order and consumers, especially younger ones, and in the fight against the infiltrations of organized crime in the sector. I therefore strongly welcome the proposals contained in the report, among which I would certainly like to call for a strengthening of the barriers to entry, for the release, renewal and maintenance of concessions, together with a tightening of the criminal and administrative penalty system. Moreover, it will be appropriate to strengthen, even in conjunction with DAC, the anti-money laundering measures, through greater traceability of the winnings at the game. In this sense, the report is right when it denounces the risks arising from the extreme dusting of the gambling points that hinder controls. Finally, we must not forget to intervene with appropriate policies towards pathological gamblers, which must be helped with preventive, therapeutic and even rehabilitation measures, measures that could - and I think this is my opinion - be financed further with part of the revenue from the game itself. Gambling has now become a mass involvement of all social classes and, while in past cultures the gambler was considered an adventurer heatsink, today a boy or an adult who burns money in the machines installed a little 'everywhere they are not considered even subject to risk. I would once again like to thank the Commission, and in particular Senator Vaccari, for this important work, and I would urge all of you, colleagues, not to let down, not even an inch, in the fight against gambling; it is about the health of our children and our fellow citizens, for the good of Italy as a whole. [[Applause from the PD Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-746.ana.u63	She's enlisted to speak Senator Ricchiuti. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-746.ana.u64	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, the report on mafia and criminal infiltrations into the lawful and illegal game approved by the Parliamentary Anti-Mafia Commission is without a doubt the most important organic text of investigation and proposal on the phenomenon that is being offered to the national legislator today. Gambling in Italy has now grown widely, both because of the percentage of household consumption allocated to it and for that of the state revenues; however, in parallel with the vertical increase in the phenomenon that lasts at least since 2003, there has been an increasing extension of the interests of crime in the sector, because of the huge profits that it is able to obtain - which in some cases escape even the official surveys - which have proved to be able to increase the recycling, through a vicious circle that rests on the flaws of the system. The mafias, in short, profit on the management of the slot machines, the game and the online sportsbook up to the phenomenon of the match fixing and then they risk almost nothing, because of a very farraginous activity of ascertaining the illegal conducts and a sanction apparatus that moves between low edittal penalties and recourse to the prescription for illicit gambling crimes. That is why, in the short time I have available for this speech in this House, I would like to focus on the proposals contained in the report approved by the Parliamentary Anti-Mafia Commission on 6 July 2016, in order to prevent organised crime from entering the legal system. First of all, the barriers to the entry of the public system of games must be strengthened. In order to do this, it is necessary to extend the scope of the impediments both in relation to the requirements for participation in tenders or public evidence procedures and in relation to the issue, renewal and maintenance of concessions in the field of public games. In this sense, it is necessary to explicitly provide for more serious cases for tax offences, crimes against public administration (including corruption and domestic and international concussion, or trafficking in illicit influences), crime of self-cycling, crime of political-mafia electoral exchange, as referred to in Article 416-b of the Criminal Code, and crimes of internal and international terrorism. The Commission's report also highlights the failure to provide for confiscation and seizure measures in relation to the criminal case of illegal gambling. For this reason, in analogy with the rules on public procurement, a radical choice would be to introduce the prohibition of participation for the economic operator that has been subject to the interdictive sanction or other sanction that involves the prohibition to contract with the public administration or that has been sentenced for the crime of false in the budget. Another aspect on which to intervene is the revision of the penal and administrative sanctioning apparatus. Proposals for this purpose may be: raising the maximum limitation period for the most dangerous conducts; anchoring to the direct protection of public policy interests the obligation to grant or authorize police also for operators of companies located abroad; tightening the penalties so that they are adequately deterrent; providing for the suspension or revocation of concessions or authorisations in the most serious cases of violation of the conditions of exercise of the lawful game by the dealers, who maintain contractual relations with persons not in an authorized position, managers or third parties in charge; providing for the use of telephone and telematic interceptions, necessary to ascertain the manner in which the criminal infiltration is carried out; finally, providing for the concessionaires a responsibility of position linked to the concepts of culpa in supervision or elitering. Finally, I would like to make one final point: according to research carried out by the financial information office (UIF) it is possible to open a game site based on bitcoin in a short time, operating in the absence of controls and in complete anonymity. This means that more and more strategies need to be refined to prevent mafias for money laundering from falling behind virtual coins. Also for this specific aspect, as well as for a more general regulation to combat organised crime, from the fourth anti-money laundering directive - to which Italy must implement by June 2017 - positive signals can come. In conclusion, I hope that the proposals and indications contained in the report we are discussing will be supported by the consent of the Senate, so that they can formally commit the Government to a prompt transposition for a comprehensive reorganisation of the public gaming sector. [[Applause from the PD Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-746.ana.u65	Senator Endrizzi is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-746.ana.u66	Madam President, combating illegal gambling involves measures to limit all gambling, because they are structurally linked: they are born and grow together. The Commission states that it has limited itself to analysing aspects of organised crime and that it has not specifically moved to direct tax, social and health rules and the ban on advertising only for time limits, but in the report there are illuminating passages that bring back from a door what has been thrown out of the window. I quote: The mafias, evidently, see in the game a highly profitable business. This is because it allows money laundering, but also in itself and in itself, and it is indeed possible that the growth of legal games has gone hand in hand with the increase in bosses' revenues, despite the fact that the two things may seem, at first sight, at odds with each other. In fact, given a certain "demand for play" total, if an increasing amount of this expense goes to legal products, the illegal games, and within these those managed by the mobsters, should correspondingly decrease. So far, this is not supposed to be the case. Some "Pharisees" claimed that prohibition encourages mafias and illegal gambling, and so a huge sector has been liberalised. The Committee of Inquiry's report states the opposite and explains why: legal gambling recruits new customers who then switch to illegal circuits simply because, not paying taxes, they can at least promise better margins, and then there are ready loan sharks who immediately make credit because they know how to recover it. In such a system, advertising is not a marginal or foreign element, it is strategic to recruitment, therefore it is also directly or indirectly functional to the mafia system because, as the report says, the mafias are already in legal hazard. Legal gambling can be considered, at best, as a mass within which the illegal sector is camouflaged. But it is not enough: it still reports the report that in the period 1989 to 1992 the concept of gambling existed as an ethical disvalue. Since 1992, with the currency crisis, gambling has begun to be regarded as an important tax lever, a significant source of tax revenue. Peculia non olet; Right and left governments and majorities didn't smell what they were doing. Since 2003, the public decision-makers have changed their objectives further; change of pace: it is no longer enough to increase tax revenues, but the foundations are laid for organising gambling as a real mass industry, creating the Customs and Monopolies Agency with powers of management, regulation, planning and market strategy. However, the Agency also occupies legislative power when the draft legislative decree attributed to the Renzi Government came - as we discover - from the computer of director Italo Volpe. This mass industry has been planned by a policy too often linked to the interests of multinational companies, and all too often there have been intertwined even with malavitous environments. Years ago I brought to this House the complaint, launched by Libera and relaunched by Conagga, of the relations between politics, lobbying and organised crime. I reported the case of Amedeo Laboccetta, former manager of a multinational gambling company, who financed his campaign; the owner of that multinational company was the son of a well-known boss, but claimed to have no ties with his father. Well, Francesco Corallo and Amedeo Laboccetta have been arrested for recycling in the video lottery sector. Now justice will take its course, and we will see how the trials end. But it is more than a fear that the mafias could find here, in these classrooms, people ready to prepare the soup of culture in which to develop. And people willing to believe uncritically, because they didn't even want to see the risk: no precautionary principle for catastrophic estimates brought to the attention of our classrooms by the Department of Drug Policy, which already in the 2012 report estimated 1% of the patients of chance, but warned about the risk that after the 30% increase in collection in a single year and the explosion of advertising, the figure risked having to be multiplied 7-10 times. No precautionary principle was adopted when Simone Feder's research denounced an alarming spread of gambling among minors in Lombardy; no precautionary principle when Nomisma confirmed those data at national level a year and a half ago. Yesterday, Nomisma repeated them again: one in two guys in the last year tried their luck with gambling and someone still has the courage to emphasize a slight drop in the figure. It takes a pervicacious fantasy to see half full a glass when inside there is a drop, in a sea of devastation. Here we go further: we have people who can see the egg inside a hair. It is this understatement that we are concerned about; who still votes sanatories to the lobby, amendments to protect the sector and that ban mayors and regions "no slots " and omissions on the really necessary measures. In this motion for a resolution, too, we are puzzled by the continuing absence of commitments that we would take for granted. For years we have denounced the fact that large sums can be placed in a video game room and then withdrawn by making them appear as payouts for recycling purposes. The motion of the 5 Star Movement to block the use of 500 euro banknotes was rejected. The Social Affairs Committee has been covering up the law against gambling for years, which requires the use of the health card issued by the State. In this motion for a resolution you say that the idea is interesting and must be evaluated. But evaluate what? It has already been evaluated by a Commission, after hearings and analyses, and voted unanimously; yet it is covered up! Instead of a health card issued by the State, is it proposed to set up a ticket issued by the operator? After we know that many rooms are in the hands of the mafias? After the report clearly states that liability must be extended to dealers who do nothing to control their supply chain? Then what are we gonna do with the dealers? You eat hundreds of millions a year to ensure what? Just a sales network rakes customers. Citizens are further ahead: on Lex Subscribers, our interactive portal, a citizen has proposed to make total traceability of flows by eliminating cash: anyone who wants to venture requires a personal card, with photos, microchips and the possibility of setting a spending cap: so flows are traceable, access to minors is prohibited, the impoverishment of families, which goes to the detriment of healthy businesses, traders, artisans, small businesses that see consumption volatile in this waste of happiness and resources. The citizens then are ahead and when the citizens are ahead of the political class, I worry. Good in the report and good also in the resolution measures that introduce barriers of entry to economic players in the gamble, but it is necessary to have the data on the shareholding composition of the companies and the investment funds that control the quotas. Well the tightening of the penalties, but nothing is said about the need to develop the ability to investigate. Today we hear that if the mayors introduce limits in the sector they encourage the illegal sector, but if someone means that we are not able to locate a totem in a local public, if we cannot organize an effective control network, then the state has surrendered. Perhaps the total ban on machine gambling would be of great help, because if I see a machine where it's forbidden, I don't need to verify: I already know it's illegal. And then we don't like the dialectic hypocrisy of claiming that limiting the autonomy of mayors and Regions "no slots " guarantees greater security: this cannot be heard! It's a way to impose a gag. If you want homogeneity, just take the regional law more restrictive and protective and make it national. It is no coincidence that it is the Regions that have the most protective laws for citizens to oppose the downward agreements. The risk is that tomorrow, this text will be used to intervene where it suits the few and neglect the urgent needs of the country. Those who exposed our children to this disease must know: now the antibiotic must be taken to the bottom, otherwise the bacteria are strengthened. [[Applause from the M5S Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-746.ana.u67	Senator Lumia is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-746.ana.u68	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, the experience gained in so many years of anti-mafia commitment leads me to the bitter realization that, with the expansion of gambling, our country has entered a perverse spiral. More game, more tax revenue; this is how we started and then, as a result, the mechanism became serious and dramatic: more game, more addiction, up to ludopathy; more legal game and, paradoxically, more illegal game and, therefore, more mafia presence. How do you get out of this? It certainly won't be easy. We do not come to an end by just shouting at the scandal or tearing our clothes; we will have to put ourselves on the road, with a project and operational step. It will be a long, tiring, uphill journey, to be made stage after stage. The first is hitting the mafia in gambling. In this difficult task, the work carried out by the Anti-Mafia Commission is very valuable. In fact, several times in recent legislation, the Commission has dealt with the issue of legal gambling and the multiple infiltrations of the mafias, both in dealers, managers and in the many collateral activities. The Committee, then the Commission, unanimously approved a report by Senator Vaccari. Today, our responsibility leads us to a resolution that commits the Government to very precise facts and measures. Three things struck me in this report, the first of which is recycling. The cursed recycling, which takes place in different forms, both through direct participation, sometimes without even the screen of a forerunner, both through the concessionary companies, and also through the management of the individual gaming points, perhaps prepared for online gaming through foreign companies. Another point, equally perverse, is the mafia control of the territory, which is manifested by the imposition of gaming machines to individual bars, often forced to install them, exactly as if it were a real lace, with exhibitors sometimes connected with criminal organizations in the management of devices partly legal and partly illegal because not connected to the control network. The third point that struck me is the creation of a circuit, of a system made up of players who become addicted, which in turn fuel the odious turn of wear, obviously controlled by the same mafia organizations. The report clearly shows that the legal economic circuit is so broad that the participation of mafia capital can be beneficial even if it remains in a circuit of apparent legality, an appearance that collapses as soon as you investigate the interests that rotate within the gambling. This often reveals the typical interests and modes of mafia action. We also know that the lobbying of the game is very powerful: the arrest of Corallo and a former Member of Parliament who sat - think about it - in the Anti-Mafia Commission in the last parliamentary term and recently relations with organised crime have also been brought to light. The legislation, as it is, is insufficient and the report of the Anti-Mafia Commission that has been presented to us today, here in the Senate, identifies the specific points on which to intervene: on the one hand, to reduce the excessive spread of the game points and the games that most expose players to the phenomenon of ludopathy and compulsive game; on the other hand, to make increasingly transparent the field of games and the modalities of access to the contests for the concessions and the allocation of management of the game points in all and for all similar to the contests, with obligation to document carefully the company structure, to immediately make known to the competent authorities any transfers of companies or sub-contracts in the management. On the first point, it has been working for a long time to reach an agreement with the regions and local authorities, which allows to reduce the playrooms and the presence of slots in public spaces, and to remove them from places frequented by young people, who too easily can access gambling even in children's age. Similarly, more stringent legislation on advertising, places and TV spaces must be reached as soon as possible. On the aspect more directly connected with the dimension of the mafia or criminal infiltration in the legal gambling, it is certainly necessary to lay down rules that impose on the concessionary company a kind of direct responsibility on the material management of the games carried out on the territory: it is not conceivable, colleagues, that a delegation from the State of this scope is received and it is not responsible in any way if, then, on the territory, the activity is carried out in an illegal or "appaltata" way, also formally legal, to the various mafias. Similarly, it is necessary to consider whether there is a need for increased penalties, at least for the most serious violations, to allow the use of some more effective investigation tools, such as telephone and environmental interceptions and asset investigations. Another qualifying point, highlighted in the report, is to work for a sort of harmonisation of control and prevention regulations also at European level, at least to avoid, as happens all too often at present, that the control of legality carried out in Italy keeps the mobsters away from the legal system, and then to see them re-enter through comfy societies, built in complacent European countries or with regulations not sufficiently stringent. For this I thank Senator Vaccari, our leader in the Anti-Mafia Commission, Senator Mirabelli, as well as Senators Capacchione and Ricchiuti for their work. I also thank Senator Albano, who told us about the risks he exposed when he worked against gambling in Liguria. The report is a valuable tool that has enabled the whole Commission, and now the House and the Senate, to reflect even more deeply on this issue and to support, with ever more effective measures, the need for more precise regulations and controls to drive the mafia out of such an important economic sector and that, formally and substantially, it must take place under the full control of the State.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-746.ana.u69	The debate is closed. I would like to inform the Assembly that motion for a resolution No 1 has been tabled, signed by Senators Mirabelli and other senators, who have already been printed and distributed. I shall refer the document back to another sitting.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-746.ana.u70	We now move on to the request to include in the schedule of proceedings of the Assembly, pursuant to Rule 55 (7) of the Rules of Procedure, the discussion of draft law n. 2068 containing: "Delegate to the Government for the reordering of the legislative provisions on the national civil protection system" She asked Senator Mussini to intervene. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-746.ana.u71	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-746.ana.u72	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-746.ana.u73	MUSSINI (Mixed). Madam President, I will spend a few words on this request. It is evident to everyone that Italy is a country where emergencies are very painful and, however, are not so frequent that they can only be considered emergencies. Together with those who have supported this request with me, we firmly believe that the first task of the legislator is, beyond any exploitation, beyond the controversy and what can warm up the newspapers or social networks, to produce laws that are useful and effective. We have in the Senate a proposal for a delegation law to reorganise the civil protection system. I do not want to go into the substance of the content of this delegation, which came from the House in September 2015 and which is currently being examined by the committees, with amendments already tabled and with the expression of the opinions by the rapporteurs for the 1st and 13th Commission, pending the opinions of the Budget Commission. I believe it is everyone's duty to carry out this measure, in order to respond to the emergencies of the country that are part of our role. I believe that each of us, if his role was to help on the spot, would not hesitate to do so; But our role now is not this: there are people who heroically do this and have every right to have clear legislation, which can reorganize and give as much certainty as possible, doing their own duty and trying to achieve the maximum result. For these reasons, I invite everyone to vote for a timetable as quickly as possible (already tomorrow, if possible), to allow the country to have an idea of our commitment and something concrete on our part. [[Applause from the Mixed Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-746.ana.u74	I would remind you that, pursuant to Rule 55 (7) of the Rules of Procedure, the resolution is adopted by vote by show of hands, after the intervention of no more than one speaker per group for ten minutes each.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-746.ana.u75	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-746.ana.u76	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-746.ana.u77	Arrigoni (LN-Aut). Madam President, we of the North League, also in the light of the events of the last few days, following the earthquake emergency of August 2016 and 26 and 30 October 2016, taking into account the obvious criticalities that are being consolidated in the emergency and reconstruction of the earthquake in the four Regions of Central Italy (Latium, Umbria, Abruzzo and Marche), and, above all, in view of the reaction of the state machine following the bad weather, snow and frost emergency, we believe that the civil protection machine is presenting important flaws, against which Parliament, obviously together with the Government, since it is talking about a delegated law, must face seriously the reform of the national civil protection system. We must give a signal of seriousness to the country. We do not have to speed up the process of this law just to be able to tell the Italians that we have faced and promptly fired this bill. We must evaluate and analyze well how much evil, in the post earthquake and in the management of the emergency that has hit mainly the Abruzzo Region, but also much of the Marche Region, is happening, that is the lack of a line of command. There are people to whom the Northern League Group commends and praises them for their efforts: I am referring to the men and women of the Fire Department, Civil Protection, Alpine Rescue, the Italian Red Cross, ANPAS and the Forces of Order. But it didn't work anyway. It is not clear who does what, it is not clear when the civil protection components have to intervene, it is not clear whether there is only one person in charge of these operations, as we hope, or a brazen command. We absolutely must weigh this up. We therefore welcome the resumption of the discussion of the draft law to be delegated to the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, perhaps even reopening the deadline for tabling any amendments. I invite all my colleagues at Palazzo Madama to do the necessary insights and to verify - I repeat - what is happening as a critic, from August 2016 until today. We are in favour of this bill resuming its path, but we do not agree that the examination should take place and be concluded in the next few hours, as my colleague, Senator Mussini, has proposed. Let's take the time we need and let the emergency end, which has not yet ended in the Abruzzo and Marche regions. In fact, I want to remind you that there are still several hundred, if not thousands of families and farmers without light, electricity, telephone connection, heating and water for nine days. The North League agrees with the proposal to resume the examination of draft law No 2068 within the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, but with due attention and possibly reopening the deadline for tabling amendments.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-746.ana.u78	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-746.ana.u79	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-746.ana.u80	VACCARI (PD). Madam President, on behalf of the Democratic Party, I am in favour of Mr Mussini's request for urgency on the draft law for the reordering of civil protection legislation. In support of the favourable opinion, however, I would like to make a point which is diametrically opposed to the arguments that Mr Arrigoni has just explained to this House. I believe that if Parliament has among its faculties the possibility of giving a signal of seriousness to the country, it can do so avoiding to exploit what is happening in Central Italy, as it was done a few moments ago, in the days following 24 August last and after the shock of October, speculating for electoral purposes on the difficulties that the sum of so many events created for the right response to the emergency and for assistance to the population and, at the same time, the continuation of the reconstruction activity that had already been started. For this reason too, I believe it is useful - as Mrs Mussini has asked - for the draft law to come to the House, even if its examination was not concluded in the Commissions. There is regret that we have not been able to close the debate in the Assembly with the approval of the delegation law. As colleagues know, the accumulated delay is linked to an ongoing deepening required by the opinion expressed by the General Accounting of the State on the draft law, which had imposed the condition, according to Article 81 of the Constitution, to include in the bill the clause of invariance of expenditure for the State. In-depth studies have been carried out in order to be able to change the opinion of the Accounting Office and to bring the measure to the Assembly without changes, giving a full mandate, starting from this House, to civil protection to activate the delegation quickly. If this is not possible, I believe that tomorrow, as I hope and as requested, we can proceed with the examination of the amendments tabled and the request for the opinion expressed by the General Accountant of the State. I believe that this proposal can be accepted, especially because the country needs to simplify and clarify the activity of civil protection, not to change it radically or to upset it. It is necessary to simplify and clarify the chain of responsibilities, which, however, has nothing to do with the response that we are giving today, in a timely and complete way, to the territories, despite the difficulties and some delays. I believe that with delegation it will be possible to further improve this response and also for this reason, I want to conclude my speech by expressing on behalf of the Democratic Party, all the support and solidarity to the head of the department, Fabrizio Curcio, and to Commissioner Errani for the tireless work they are doing since 24 August and, as regards Errani, from the days following the appointment, in support of the resumption of the civil and productive activities of those territories and for the recovery, through the reconstruction phase, from all the points of view of those territories. For the Democratic Party, therefore, nothing precludes bringing the draft law to the Assembly as soon as possible, even if not concluded by the Commissions. [[Applause from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-746.ana.u81	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-746.ana.u82	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-746.ana.u83	Montevecchi (M5S). Madam President, the 5 Star Movement will also vote in favour of the request made by Senator Mussini, even if we want to clarify a few things. First of all, we are talking about a delegation law and therefore, beyond the time that has been necessary in the Commission and that perhaps it would still be necessary to settle some points, we are wondering whether there will be time to see the end of the delegation process and, above all, whether the delegated decrees will arrive at a suitable time. Among other things, it seems to us to understand that - within a short time, because it is not our intention to do so now - this law does not intervene decisively on the operation of civil protection. We hope, as far as Senator Vaccari points out, that the clause of economic invariance recalled by the State Accountant may be concluded positively, because otherwise we wonder how it is possible to adopt a really incisive measure, that puts civil protection in better operating conditions than those in which it has been found in these days, without a reasonable investment. Even the 5 Star Movement, therefore, even with these reservations, will vote in favour of the request made by Senator Mussini.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-746.ana.u84	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-746.ana.u85	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-746.ana.u86	MALAN (FI-PdL XVII). Madam President, the Forza Italia Group is in favour of this request, not only in the light of the current situation and what we are talking about these days, but also in line with what we have done in the last parliamentary term, when we have carried on - and it has been approved in this area of Parliament - a reform of civil protection to make it particularly efficient and suitable for responding in times of emergency when it is called upon to intervene. The problem, which we have seen again these days, concerns not only the means used by civil protection, but also the way in which they are used, so it is really appropriate to intervene now. We had done so in the last parliamentary term, but unfortunately we have not been able to complete the path in the other branch of Parliament, regardless of urgency or topicality. What has happened these days, also with regard to the role of Commissioner Errani, who had to make up for what Civil Protection is not able to do at the moment, has shown that it was above all the promises that were carried out with great clarity and speed. These promises, however, were not followed by the answers, neither for the medium term, that is, with respect to the delivery of housing and the accommodation of all those who had to leave their homes, nor unfortunately in the immediacy of the relief that became necessary. For these reasons, I think it really is a responsibility to start this debate, in line with what was done last Parliament with a measure whose rapporteur was Senator D'Ali. I would also like it to be specified when this measure is to be discussed, otherwise we risk putting it on the calendar without knowing when it will be dealt with, perhaps even never. I would therefore like to clarify the conditions which, according to common sense, can allow this issue to be addressed. Tomorrow morning, at 10 a.m., President Gentiloni Silveri will be speaking, so I do not believe that from 9.30 a.m. to 10 p.m. we can start the call for the election planned for both AGCOM and the Court of Auditors. I therefore believe that this would be the place to propose the beginning of tomorrow's sitting at 10 a.m., because at 9.30 a.m. we risk opening the sitting to arrange for it to be postponed until 10 a.m. when the President of the Council is scheduled to speak. Then there is another urgency: tomorrow, at 1.30 p.m., the Minister of Interior Minniti will report to the Chamber of Deputies in front of the Chamber and Senate Commissions, so I believe that it would be appropriate, in accordance with the time of the debate following the speech by President Gentiloni Silveri, to conclude the proceedings of the Chamber by 1 p.m. in order to allow all the senators who must go to Montecitorio for this important hearing of Minister Minniti to have the material time to do so. Finally, in the afternoon, if I do not think it is important before or after the point concerning Senator Vacciano, we should begin the examination of the civil protection measure, postponing the votes, which were scheduled for tomorrow, on the AGCOM and the Court of Auditors. Madam President, I am sorry if I have allowed myself to make a proposal to rationalise the time, but I wanted to leave it to the acts so that we know what we are voting on and when we start the debate on this subject, which we certainly think is important. [[Senator Caliendo's applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-746.ana.u87	It seems to me that we are redefining, in relation to urgency, the timetable for today's and tomorrow's sittings. The first point that, if there are no objections, I would like to take for granted, is the postponement of the votes we had on the agenda, because they are really incompatible with the proposed amendments. It seems to me that there are no objections to this. Montevecchi (M5S). There are objections. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I shall then give you the floor at the end of the speeches.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-746.ana.u88	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-746.ana.u89	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-746.ana.u90	BUEMI (Aut (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT)-PSI-MAIE). Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, we are also in favour of the statement of urgency of the measure we have taken into consideration, but the urgency cannot exclude a serious weighting of the solutions. It is clear that we are dealing with a very important issue and that, as we have seen in these hours, an organization with defiance or rapid intervention difficulties (for various reasons, it is not a question of opening a debate on this matter) calls into question the efficiency of the system. I therefore believe that we must think carefully. From this point of view, I would like to make a few points for your assessment, ladies and gentlemen. There is no question of competence (and this is not always available in a suitable way), but there is also the need to identify and assess the reliability of those who decide, because the time factor is important and in the area of emergency and civil protection, ordinary procedures do not even allow fathers to intervene in a timely and appropriate manner. This is the crux of the matter and I do not think it can be eluded. However, Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, the issue of safety prevention, safety and culture must be taken seriously. We cannot accept the current approach: there is security bureaucracy today. The most recent and the most distant events show that the quintals of paper do not protect the system from the risks present in our country. We must, therefore, be more pragmatic and piercing on the issues. Those who have some experience on these issues, not only from the point of view of public institutions, but also from that of private companies, know that security must be real, it cannot simply be a way of covering things that can happen. I am referring to the culture of security, which must involve all citizens and which must also start from the work of strategic training that must be carried out in schools. [[Senator Zin's applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-746.ana.u91	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-746.ana.u92	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-746.ana.u93	Montevecchi (M5S). Madam President, I have not quite understood whether Senator Malan would like to link the vote on a possible shift in the election of the member of the AGCOM Bureau to that on the urgency procedure for the measure. I don't know if I meant it wrong. On the other hand, I would like the two votes to be taken separately because we are talking about two separate things.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-746.ana.u94	On this I assure you, Senator: having the word, Senator Malan has also made a request for a change in the calendar. You vote for different things.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-746.ana.u95	The next question is, therefore, on the point raised by Senator Malan, of a possible postponement of the vote for the election of a Commissioner of the Authority for guarantees in communications next week, will the Groups again be given the opportunity to speak or should I say here what our opinion is on this matter? I would ask why another debate should be opened.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-746.ana.u96	Of course, what I said was true in the absence of any objections; as there are objections, we will have another debate before we put the proposal to the vote and, as provided for in the Rules of Procedure, we will give the floor to those who wish to speak, one per group. Then I'll wait for the floor. Thank you. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Colleagues, it seems to me that there have been a number of interventions, not always linear ones, on how to configure the inclusion on the agenda of the measure on civil protection that must be considered. I therefore propose a few minutes' suspension. [[Comments from M5S and LN-Aut Groups]] The Presidency must take account of all the requests that have been made. It is 7:45 p.m. and the sitting is scheduled until 8:00 p.m., so we can make it to the end. What do you say? Are we gonna make it or have we worked too hard? I say no. I therefore suspend the sitting until 7.50 p.m. (The sitting was suspended at 7.46 p.m. and resumed at 7.50 p.m.) The session is resumed. I therefore put to the vote the proposal to include the draft law No 2068 in the calendar of proceedings of the Assembly in the field of civil protection. It's approved. [[Senator Calderoli points out that he wants to intervene]] Don't worry, Senator Calderoli. I put to the vote the proposal to include in the agenda of the Assembly the discussion of draft law n. 2068 on civil protection after the vote on the resignation of Senator Vacciano, made by Senator Malan. It's approved.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-746.ana.u97	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-746.ana.u98	You have the floor, Senator Calderoli, tell me what the problem is.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-746.ana.u99	Mr Calderoli (LN-Aut). Madam President, when someone tells me to be quiet, it is usually the moment when peace of mind disappears. Frankly, it is not possible to ask Parliament to vote without knowing what the request is. I would just like to refer to the article you mentioned... PRESIDENT. Excuse me, Senator Calderoli, but you have arrived here now. In the afternoon I saw that he was absent. Mr Calderoli (LN-Aut). Look, if you don't see who's here, that's another matter. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. You can't say that. I read Senator Mussini's request. [[Comments of Senator Candiani]] Mr Calderoli (LN-Aut). Listen to me: it is written on the Rules of Procedure that, in order to reverse the agenda, the same procedures must be followed. That means there's a request from Senator Malan signed by eight senators. Is it yes or no? PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Formally written we don't have it. Mr Calderoli (LN-Aut). We're not talking about chips! PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. No, we're not talking about chips. Mr Calderoli (LN-Aut). So is there a request or not? PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator Malan, formalize the request. I think your group has more than eight senators. Mr Calderoli (LN-Aut). But you've already made her vote!
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-746.ana.u100	Let the eight senators who supported the request raise their hands. Mr Calderoli (LN-Aut). After the vote! Bravo, Bravo! Keep up the good work! PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. We're waiting for the signatures. The inclusion of the discussion of the civil protection measure after the vote on the resignation of Senator Vacciano is established. We move on to the proposal to postpone the call for the election of members of the AGCOM and the Court of Auditors to the sitting on Wednesday next week.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-746.ana.u101	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-746.ana.u102	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-746.ana.u103	Montevecchi (M5S). Madam President, when the Conference of the Leaders was held and the vote in question was announced, practically a week was given, in the sense that the same procedure was not envisaged in the Senate - a virtuous one in our opinion - which had been followed, on the other hand, at the request of the President of the Boldrini Chamber, on the same vote held in the Chamber in 2013. This virtuous procedure, carried out in the Chamber of Deputies, provided for a public notice, a collection of curricula and the formation of a parliamentary intergroup in the Chamber composed of representatives of the various political forces who viewed the curricula and raised the possibility of voting. We wondered why he didn't decide to do the same here in the Senate. At this point, however, since Senator Malan asks to postpone the vote by a week, we assume that there is no great urgency to proceed to the vote and, therefore, we can consider postponing it not only by a week, but even by the time it takes. In this way a virtuous procedure such as that of the House would be followed and, therefore, the curriculum could be collected by means of public evidence, evaluated and selected with the aim of being as appropriate as possible. We are talking about a guarantee body whose components should not only be competent but also independent. We could therefore take this opportunity and, if so, we would be in favour. Otherwise, we wonder why we should postpone the vote by a week: at this point we can proceed to the vote this week because nothing really changes compared to the usual practice.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-746.ana.u104	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-746.ana.u105	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-746.ana.u106	Mr Calderoli (LN-Aut). Madam President, I would like to point out the absolute irregularity of the procedure that has been carried out so far, to the point that the collection of signatures is currently underway to submit a request, so as to make it regular with respect to a vote that we have already made. Since the proposal had not been settled, the vote had to be cancelled, the application had to be submitted and, if necessary, the vote repeated. The Rules of Procedure are one. Madam President, you are now also getting the paper with the signatures, and let us also put the time on it, so it will come from the shorthand report that the request was not there because it was lodged at the time at the Presidency table. The last vote is therefore irregular. Turning to the point, I can understand that we can ask for the reversal, but what is being proposed at the moment is a new timetable that follows completely different modes, unless we refer to paragraph 4 of Rule 55 of the Rules of Procedure saying that it also applies to amendments. It is okay that jackets have pockets just to be pulled, but let us act with a minimum of intellectual honesty so that we don't make fakes in the vote of a Parliamentary Assembly. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group and Senator Serra.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-746.ana.u107	Meanwhile, you cannot speak of intellectual honesty, Senator Calderoli, because then this should concern everyone. You know very well that the question posed was complementary to the decision taken on the basis of the formal request made by Senator Mussini, who had not specified at which point in the timetable of the work to include the draft law on civil protection. AIROLA (M5S). It's two different things! PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Therefore, with regard to intellectual honesty, please do not question it. The procedure was exactly what we had to follow, because this is not a new request. Mr Calderoli (LN-Aut). Study the Rules of Procedure! CANDIANI (LN-Aut). No! PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Exactly. Since there is no unanimity on the postponement of a week and the questions raised by Senator Montevecchi, who have all their dignity, should still be evaluated by the Conference of the Leaders, I put the proposal to the vote... CALDEROLI (LN-Aut). Read it! It's written inside! PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. ...to postpone the election of the members of the AGCOM and the Court of Auditors until Wednesday next week at the same time and consequently start tomorrow at 10 a.m. and conclude the afternoon session of the Senate at 13 o'clock. It's approved. I'll take the rehearsal. I order the doors closed. We proceed to counter-test by electronic procedure. It's approved. The deadline for amendments to the Civil Protection Bill is tomorrow at 12 noon.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-746.ana.u108	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-746.ana.u109	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-746.ana.u110	DE PETRIS (Misto-SI-SEL). Madam President, I just want it to be on the record that I was unable to vote and that, however, my vote would have been against. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. The Presidency takes note of this.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-746.ana.u111	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-746.ana.u112	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-746.ana.u113	CANDIANI (LN-Aut). Madam President, we have perhaps understood what you have not understood, namely that tomorrow we are discussing civil protection. But I ask myself, and I ask you, how can you allow such an important measure, with everything we have discussed, to go to this House practically without a rapporteur, not even having been completed in the Commission and setting the deadline for tabling amendments at 12 noon? Are you kidding me? But do we mean that this is a delegated law on civil protection? PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator Candiani, the Assembly voted on this. I understand that you have explained the reasons for another position. CANDIANI (LN-Aut). Madam President, you set the end of 12:00 a.m. a minute ago! But he realizes what it means to tell the Italians that we take over a law dealing with civil protection.... PRESIDENT. But if the House has voted to discuss the measure at this time, we can only set this deadline. CANDIANI (LN-Aut). Madam President, then do what you think! The deadline for tabling amendments should be postponed. It can't be scheduled at 12:00 tomorrow. Already it is not serious to arrive in this Chamber without having completed the examination in the Commission, but we arrive in this House without rapporteur and only with a few hours to prepare the amendments. After what do we tell the Italians? Do we tell him that we have put in the hands of the Government an instrument to make a new reform of civil protection? But we don't make fun of people! In fact, don't make fun of her! Be serious! [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-746.ana.u114	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-746.ana.u115	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-746.ana.u116	Montevecchi (M5S). Madam President, calmly reasoning, we have voted before on a request for urgency for a measure. If, however, we want to do a minimally serious job, even considering that urgency is required and, therefore, we cannot expect time to move much further, we believe that the end of tomorrow's 12 o'clock is really too short, also considering that tomorrow morning there is the information of the President of the Council of Ministers. So, probably, many of us - almost all of us - will be in this House listening to the information that has been requested. I really ask, with my heart in my hand, that we reason on the end of 12 o'clock and try to allow a little more time - it doesn't mean so many more days, but also just one more day - to give political forces a chance to work peacefully on the measure. We have expressed our reservations about it, but if we take the burden of serious thinking, then let us be serious to the end. I therefore agree with the request of Senator Candiani and the League to try to find a suitable solution.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-746.ana.u117	I think we can arrange for a delay of at least a couple of hours, so as to allow what you asked for. Unfortunately this is the effect of the acceleration of the debate and also of the failure to complete the work in the Commission; but it is the consequence of the decision of the House and I cannot fail to remind you of that, Senator Montevecchi. I therefore agree that the deadline for tabling amendments should be postponed until 2 p.m.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-746.ana.u118	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-746.ana.u119	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-746.ana.u120	D'ALI' (FI-PdL XVII). Madam President, as anticipated in the debate on the motion on the Venezuela crisis, I am once again urging the Presidency to convene the Government as a matter of urgency on the episode of the machine-gun of Italian fishing vessels in the Sicilian Channel, in front of the Libyan coasts, by the Libyan Navy unit. I would warn the Presidency - in the sense of being absolutely fair and political - that on this subject I will use a Trappist technique, in the sense that, at the end of each sitting, I will ask to intervene to urge the Government, until it comes to report on an absolutely intolerable episode. The vessels returned to Mazara del Vallo; we also have photographic documentation of the bullet holes of the direct cannoning by the Libyan Navy against one of them in particular. I understand that this is of little interest to the Presidency and to my fellow Members, but I hope that my Trappist technique will have some effect. PUGLIA (M5S). We care!
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-746.ana.u121	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-746.ana.u122	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-746.ana.u123	GIROTTO (M5S). Madam President, exactly a year ago the murder of Giulio Regeni was carried out: torture and murder. For more than thirty years I have been an activist of an association that deals with the defence of human rights and I am particularly sensitive to the issue. We all know that the truth is still to be discovered. My appeal to politics is that it should not be content with a truth of convenience in order to resume international relations of convenience, sacrificing the search for true truth to commercial interests. Regeni reminds us that his case is a symbol: there are so many Giulio Regeni in the world and we must remember them all. We must understand what were the interests that Giulio Regeni evidently touched, which Pandora's box risked to uncover and which sensitive strings he touched: perhaps they were oligopolies, perhaps those great multinationals that have very strong interests in the supply and control of raw materials and fossil sources that - let us remember - remain one of the main causes of injustices, civil wars, oppression and dictatorships in the world. Tomorrow is a tragic anniversary. Let's not waste it. I call on policy to do everything possible to pursue the truth, and above all on citizens to do what politics very often does not do, i.e. to replace it through voluntary associations. Very often politics does not act; very often the citizen replaces politics with activism. I therefore also urge the citizens to follow the associations and to play their part, since politics once again does not seem to want to do so. [[Applause from Senator Puglia.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-746.ana.u124	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-746.ana.u125	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-746.ana.u126	DI BIAGIO (AP (Ncd-CpI)). Madam President, I will be very brief. On 17 January, the Budget Committee resumed its examination of the draft law, which was first signed by me, on the subject of victims of duty and equalisation of benefits. It's a bill that wants to fill an unfair inequality between A-series victims and B-series victims. Unfortunately, the only existing report on possible charges makes incorrect accounts, which unexplainedly triple the expenditure forecasts. And of this I highlighted the limits in a question on August 3rd. Unfortunately, the question still awaits an answer. In the meantime, however, the Government has intervened in the Commission on the measure and has expressed an opinion against it. I quote the words of the Deputy Minister: "to induce the administration responsible to deepen the quantification of charges." At this point, in the face of an opinion which we do not understand the ratio, I ask - and I am asking you vehemently, Madam President - that my question 4-06252 be answered as soon as possible, which would allow us to reduce the issue and begin to give an answer to those who unfortunately have been waiting for you for years, partly because all this is creating a huge dispute for the treasury, in which the administration is always losing and which, on the other hand, generates a heavy burden on the State itself.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-746.ana.u127	The motions, questions and questions received by the Presidency will be published in Annex B to today's report.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-746.ana.u128	The Senate will meet again tomorrow, Wednesday 25 January, in two public sessions, the first at 10 a.m. and the second at 16.30, with the following agenda: (See agenda) The sitting was closed at 20.11 a.m.
