ParlaMint-IT_2017-07-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-857.ana.u1	The sitting was opened at 16.31 a.m. The Minutes shall be read. Mr Amati, secretary, read the Minutes of the sitting of the previous day.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-07-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-857.ana.u2	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-07-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-857.ana.u3	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-07-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-857.ana.u4	TOSATO (LN-Aut). Mr President, I would like to ask for the vote on the Minutes, subject to a quorum check. Verification of quorum
ParlaMint-IT_2017-07-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-857.ana.u5	I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators, by electronic procedure. (The request is supported). I therefore call on the senators to make their presence known by electronic means. (Follows the quorum check.) The Senate has a quorum. Resumption of the debate on the Minutes I put the Minutes to the vote. It's approved.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-07-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-857.ana.u6	The list of senators on leave and absent on assignment received from the Senate, as well as further communications to the Assembly, will be published in Annex B to today's Minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-07-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-857.ana.u7	I would warn you that qualified votes can be taken in the course of today's sitting by electronic means. Therefore, from this moment the period of 20 minutes from the notice provided for in Article 119, paragraph 1, of the Regulation (at 16.35).
ParlaMint-IT_2017-07-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-857.ana.u8	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-07-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-857.ana.u9	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-07-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-857.ana.u10	Mr Quagliarello (FL-Id-PL, PLI)). Mr President, news agencies are constantly beating news of new fires. The Statistical Office tells us that yesterday was the day of greatest drought in the last ten years. Even in the last hours the emergency of Sicily and Vesuvius gives us the picture of an even more dangerous situation. It seems to me that there are all the extremes to ask for the government to report on what, minute after minute, is becoming a real national emergency.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-07-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-857.ana.u11	Senator Quagliariello, we take advantage of the lucky presence of the Minister of Relations with Parliament, Senator Finocchiaro, who will act as a means to organize this information.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-07-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-857.ana.u12	The next item is the continuation of the debate on draft law No 2856.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-07-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-857.ana.u13	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-07-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-857.ana.u14	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-07-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-857.ana.u15	ISGRO CHOLIPOTI' (FI-PdL XVII). Mr President, I had asked to speak just before Mr Quagliariello spoke to table a point of order. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I'm sorry, Senator Scilipoti Isgrò, but I didn't get the request. In addition, Senator Quagliariello is a Group President and therefore has that faculty. ISGRO CHOLIPOTI' (FI-PdL XVII). I understand that, Mr President, but I ask that we be able to speak now in order to table a point of order. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. That's not possible, Senator Scilypoti Isgrò. Senator Casaletto is registered to speak. You have the right to do so. ISGRO CHOLIPOTI' (FI-PdL XVII). Yeah, but before we even intervene... [[The microphone is automatically switched off.]] Mr. President! PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator Scilipoti Isgrò, you have no title to speak, so I'll take your word for it. Please, Senator Casaletto.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-07-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-857.ana.u16	Mr President, in the country of the eternal emergencies to be managed with laws that resolve nothing, this decree is also part of the widespread modality of the patchwork. ISGRO CHOLIPOTI' (FI-PdL XVII). Mr. President! Mr. President! Mr. President!
ParlaMint-IT_2017-07-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-857.ana.u17	Senator Scilipoti Isgrò, yours is an annoying echo. Don't make me call you back to order for such nonsense. He will speak at another time of the sitting. ISGRO CHOLIPOTI' (FI-PdL XVII). Mr President, I ask you to speak now! PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. She doesn't deserve it! I would like to call you to order and ask you to include this in the Minutes of the sitting. Senator Casaletto, I invite you to continue.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-07-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-857.ana.u18	I am in favour of vaccinations, which have allowed in the past and allow today, to eliminate deadly and crippling infectious diseases such as polio. No one here is questioning the effectiveness of the vaccination method. Today it is the Minister of Health who asks us, with strongly alarmist tones, for greater vaccine coverage and to obtain it resorts to a guilty alarmism in order to legitimize the imposition, the authoritarianism and the fear of incurring extremely heavy sanctions. I do not want, in my brief speech, to deal with the subject from a scientific point of view - I am not a doctor - but scientific data are brandished as weapons in this, in my opinion, real crusade supported by the Minister and I do not want to go down to the clash of data against data. Analyzing scientific data is crucial, however, using them in an instrumental way as a weapon for propaganda, on one hand or on the other, where it wins those who have more verbal violence or ability to seduce consciences or influence the media, leads to a paradoxical confusion and distrust of families in the health system and institutions. Understand why there is certainly an increase in the so-called vaccination hesitation in Italy, as demonstrated by very accurate studies in Veneto and Emilia-Romagna... [[Vivacious protests by Senator Scilipoti Isgrò at the address of Senator Romani Paolo.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-07-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-857.ana.u19	Senator Scilipoti, I've already called you back once! Please, Senator Casaletto, and excuse me again.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-07-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-857.ana.u20	CASALETTO (GAL (DI, GS, MPL, RI)). As I said, understanding why there is certainly an increase in the so-called vaccination hesitation in Italy, as demonstrated by many accurate studies both in Veneto and Emilia-Romagna, would help the understanding of what the population really expects from a regulating State, which by virtue of European laws no longer controls anything and does not really support the population on a topic of such vital importance. Terrorizing and forcing families, as this decree-law does, ultimately creates only more suspicion and removal from vaccination prophylaxis. In the face of less flock coverage, the government probably does not say what all the real causes of the problem are. Italy in the last twenty years has experienced a strong presence of populations from different countries of the world. The population received is now more than 5% of the entire Italian population. Could this be accompanied by family doctors and effective health care? The population that has fallen into poverty is equal - statistics tell us - to more than 5 million individuals and is constantly growing. Are we sure that the families of these individuals can think about inquiring and providing for the vaccination of their children? Solidarity is sacrosanct is untouchable, but is this accompanied by effective and widespread public services? Moreover, there is no fear of misinformation vaccines, as the proposers believe of the vaccination obligation, but it is the air of distrust in the National Health System that hovers among the doubters to paint a health that is perceived by users as not transparent, not very dialogue and not at all attentive to the patient and this unfortunately happens in many Italian regions. On the other hand, we know how fundamental the relationship of trust between the doctor and the patient is for the effectiveness of the therapy, as stated in the code of ethics for doctors. In terms of vaccination, since this is a preventive action, this can have a much greater impact on behaviour and removal from this practice, especially at a historic moment that is approaching the emergency but still is not, when the serious effects of the diseases for which you are vaccinated are not yet so widespread. Everyone here wants them not to spread. But through what? Through a health service that informs, educates, assists the citizen and reassures him, aspiring a state that makes us all part of the Italian community through principles of fairness, transparency and participation in choices. The cuts to health care, the managerial technocracy that has invaded the health sector, the abandonment of the figure of the basic doctor, the cuts to school education in the field of health, that this decree-law tries to buffer in virtue of the patchwork, in a ludicrous way, are among the main culprits of the decrease of the vaccine cover in Italy. The government should intervene in these areas. But we cannot, because the fiscal compact, the Maastricht parameters and the European Commission prevent us from managing our internal public resources, especially in the health sector. Coercion is an act of closing the dialogue between institutions and citizens, mirror of a state that recognizes that it does not have the resources and the ability to take diffuse measures in educational direction and promotion of health, as well as decree the failure of communication in medicine between operator and patient in the field of vaccinations and prevention. Already my colleague, Dr. Romani, in his speech this morning stressed the importance of the close relationship of trust for the validity and effectiveness of the treatment between doctor and patient. The climate of trust, in which the civic sense is born and developed, provides for fairness, always, even when sincerity is difficult to show and the culture of prevention and respect for institutions is what all citizens should permeate from a respectful state, depositary of trust and attentive to social changes. It should be stressed and stressed strongly that the educational function of promoting trust and protecting public health cannot in any way be delegated to an instrument such as the Internet network. For health we must rely on science, but science and the democratic state support, educate and do not impose. This decree-law shows in the clearest and most obvious way that the Government is not able to ensure this today. [[Senator De Pin exhibits signs bearing the words: "No decree Lorenzin!" and "Agenzia medica" declares 22,000 cases of children with neurological damage in three years!]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-07-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-857.ana.u21	Senator De Pin, pick up those signs. I call on the assistants to intervene in the removal of cartels. DE PIN (GAL (DI, GS, MPL, RI)). Moms gave it to me this morning! PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator Anitori is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-07-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-857.ana.u22	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I was reminded of a book that I read a long time ago, written by a biologist and a very good scientific publicist called Jared Diamond, who wrote: 'Arms, steel and diseases'. What struck me was the fact that the diseases decimated entire populations of the Americas: it was more the diseases caused by the germs brought by the conquistadores to kill the American populations than the conquerors themselves. 90% of the indigenous American population died in this way. Diseases were due to genetic mutations of germs, of which the Indoeuroasian populations were carriers because they were in contact with domestic animals. The farmers of the Euro-Asian continent had developed a partial immunity and, when they went to the Americas, caused the decimation of the Indo-American population. I am referring to this because I come from a conference held on Monday at the Higher Institute of Health, where the Health Global Fund was discussed. The goal for 2030 is to defeat three major diseases such as malaria, AIDS, TB, but there is still much to be done. But we're worried we're not gonna vaccinate. I therefore see a very strong contrast between the type of policy that is being pursued at global and national level. Global health passes through vaccination and, according to the Global Alliance for Vaccines and Immunization (GAVI), 12 million children died because they did not immunize in 1990 to 7.5 million in 2010, as a result of a vaccination campaign. Yesterday I saw out here people manifesting for freedom of choice, which can be sacrosanct at a time when it does not go against the freedom of people and does not affect both the health of their children and that of the children of others. I remember that already in 1700 there was an vaccination campaign made by Edward Jenner. Only 3 percent of the vaccinees died, while the mortality rate for those who were not vaccinated was up to 40%, yet in 1885, in Leicester, there were large demonstrations against the compulsory vaccinations of children, who were vaccinated by the British state when they were three months old. Well, it seems to me, in some ways, that we have come back. The thing that strikes me is that it seems very difficult to make people understand that behind the decision to prevent and do vaccination there are no plots, nor are there diseases such as autism, which would develop as a result of vaccinations. In fact, we are facing a problem of globalisation where travel, travel, migration and poverty go hand in hand with our diseases, so a prevention campaign can only protect our children. With regard to adjuvants that fit into vaccines, aluminium salts have been partially replaced and there are other types of adjuvants, much more effective and that do not give adverse reactions or at least are very limited. It is obvious that a free adherence to vaccinations would be desirable, because the effect on children would be even more effective, but at some point very important solutions must be adopted for prevention and therefore for the protection of the health of all, especially of the most fragile. What is striking is the high perception, which seems to be something renewed in our society, in which the relationship between risks and benefits is not well appreciated. There is a belief that vaccines are ineffective, especially because these diseases are considered far from us. However, I remember when I had to vaccinate my children I asked my mother for advice, which clearly had a different experience than mine. For the cough there was an optional vaccination and not compulsory, but she told me that when she was a child she spent months and months with this canine cough and told me to vaccinate absolutely my children, because it was a really annoying pathology. Another very concrete memory that I have is that my children's father had measles, was hospitalized for at least a couple of weeks and risked his life for it. My perception of the essentiality of vaccinating children was therefore very concrete, because I had had both direct and indirect experience; vice versa, we lost our memory and we no longer have this kind of perception before us. This is an experience of my life that I can tell you how other colleagues who have spoken, such as Senator Buemi, have done. Instead, concrete experiments have been conducted by scientific authorities and it has been noted that families informed about the need to immunize, despite everything, were very hesitant and were not really convinced to proceed with vaccinations; vice versa, when the experiment was conducted on a group of parents who were shown the concrete effects of these diseases (so smallpox, polio, etc.), the perception changed and the adherence to vaccination was absolutely greater, even of 30 or 40 percent more than the case I mentioned earlier. Being informed is important, but having an appropriate knowledge of the problem is also crucial, so I repeat that it is important to know before you can say whether or not to make a vaccine. In conclusion, of course, this is a very difficult and important subject, but it is true that we have an important legacy, that of thinking about our children that they will be the future generations that we must protect; above all we must protect the weakest and we cannot think that the State decides something that goes against the interests of our people. It is important to take care of our children too, so let us try to educate parents to make a conscious choice, but also with respect for others. [[Applause from the AP-CpE-NCD Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-07-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-857.ana.u23	Senator Serra is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-07-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-857.ana.u24	Mr President, I would like to remind you that yesterday in the House the Decree-Law No 99 of 2017 was voted with confidence, so-called bank decree, giving EUR 17 billion to clean up the accounts of private banks; EUR 17 billion that could have been used for a year of citizenship income. This as incipit, to show attention and initiate a constructive dialogue with citizenship all, since also the decree-law that we discuss today had an iter, dare I say, unsuitable and offensive for citizenship all. I would like to remind you that Article 32 of our Constitution specifies how: The Republic protects health as a fundamental right of the individual and the interest of the community, and guarantees free care to the most deprived. No one - and I repeat: no one - can be obliged to a certain health treatment if not by law. Under no circumstances may the law violate the limits imposed by respect for the human person. The law, therefore, cannot in any way exceed the limits imposed by respect for this. The Minister explained that the measure was written to protect children, although obligatory, without a serious and punctual informative process, through a network of doctors and pediatricians who help parents to know the actual vaccination course, is defined for me "coercion." You've moved from a mandatory of twelve vaccines to one of ten, but with another four recommended vaccines. So we have ten plus four. Minister, this choice of taxation compels people to succumb to a law on the positive indication of the term "public health protection," but with uncompromising shadowy areas, which suppress the rights and respect of citizens. We have all observed the story that first saw the announcement in the press, then the wording of some indications (twelve compulsory vaccines) and now the presentation of the text with many amendments and corrections to the text; who knows what we will have to vote in this House. But let us go with order, since in the analysis of the articles that in particular involve schools and teaching staff, within Articles 3, 4 and 5, the discipline on the effects of non-compliance with vaccination obligations with regard to educational services, schools and regional vocational training centres is specified. With regard to access, this Decree-Law makes a distinction between education services for children and children's or so-called nursery schools (including private schools), on the one hand, and the remaining schools such as regional vocational training centres, on the other hand. For the first area of facilities (schools for children and educational services for children), the presentation of documentation is a requirement for access, while for the second area, non-submission does not preclude access to school or examinations. Already in these few passages we find discrepancies between childhood, adolescents and young students; the measure therefore appears unconstitutional, because there are differences in health protection between people, between children and adolescents. There is also the Commission's amendment proposing a different time-scan, with the replacement of a new procedure, providing that school managers and those responsible for education services for children and regional vocational training centres are required, when the child aged between zero and sixteen is enrolled, to require parents to exercise parental responsibility to provide a certificate or commitment by 10 September 2017. This period may be deferred until 31 October 2017. It would be at least appropriate for you to assess the fact that the deadline of 10 September is absolutely inconsistent, given that many schools have enrolment dates which may be before 10 September. It is also absurd how the responsibility for compulsory vaccination falls only and above all on the responsibility of parents and, in cascade, teachers and managers. There has been no doubt at all that this responsibility does not make sense for parents and teachers, when there are enormous delays and inadequacyes in numerous health care centres, present throughout the health area. We also have a magnificent amendment that proposes to introduce, on a transitional basis, the exemption from the teaching of a teacher for each school institution; this exemption is provided for the school year 2017-2018. And with what funding? Also through the Fund for the enrichment and extension of the training offer. Here we expect further cuts in teaching; better to keep everyone ignorant. Then there is the shameful amendment that proposes to allow the Ministry of Health to avail itself of a quota of up to 20 staff units of other Dicasteries in command position, in order to define the procedures intended for the refreshment of persons damaged by transfusions (among these there are also thalassemics). This further cut to public health is a disgrace, also because we know what conditions public hospitals are in all of Italy. [[Applause from the M5S Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-07-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-857.ana.u25	Senator Rizzotti is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-07-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-857.ana.u26	Mr President, Minister, I am very sorry because I have little time to speak, but at least we will have more time to discuss the amendments. Unfortunately, such an important decree-law is breaking the country. Vaccines are fundamental for the health of people, but this decree-law divides and worries the country because it has neglected the merit, i.e. vaccinations as a pillar of our health for us and for our children, using a questionable method that creates doubts, fears, confusion, delays in the implementation and thousands of appeals that will clog justice, from which we can certainly expect colorful sentences. We already know why in Italy since 2012 there has been a decline in vaccination: it was thanks to the investigation of the Public Prosecutor of Trani, who linked autism with vaccinations, a report denied by the entire international scientific world. The investigation ended after four years finally stating that there is no connection between autism and vaccinations, but now the damage was done, in fact there was a significant decrease in vaccinations, especially in Puglia. In the years following 2012 there was not enough monitoring, yet there was already a vaccination obligation with sanction, but only ten ASLs reported in 2016. In recent years there has been no serious information campaign, not as laughable as the current one, which should have preceded the decree-law. On the other hand, even now information is badly done even by those who should for scientific knowledge, defend the principle of the importance of the value of vaccinations. I am referring, for example, to an interview given to the "Corriere della Sera" by the president of the Higher Institute of Health; I am referring to a television broadcast on La7, followed by millions of people, in which a statement was made that even if Italy had been an experimental country for vaccinations there would have been nothing wrong. There was therefore no need for a decree-law that came to a tight leg after for years it was done little or nothing. We all greeted with great sharing a perfect vaccination plan, developed by the Minister of Health, where great emphasis was placed on training and information, but this plan was practically cancelled by the decree-law itself. During the hearings in the Health Commission, we had experts from the Association of Pediatricians, we listened to Garattini from the Mario Negri Institute, Dr. Salmaso and others, and all expressed doubts and concerns about the method. We have heard representatives of the Regions such as Saitta and directors of ASL, and everyone has expressed doubts and difficulties in complying with the obligation for lack of staff and money. In this regard, I very much hope that some amendments, such as 3.7 and 5.14 tabled by Senator Puglisi, which have nothing to do with vaccines but concern the recruitment of MIUR, will be withdrawn out of respect for this House. On the other hand, new recruitment at ASL level would have been necessary, where staff already work under difficult conditions to try to provide, for example, LEAs. A number of proposals have been accepted in the Commission and, fortunately, that horrible proposal on the country's power has been deleted, an idea that makes people shudder only to think of it. We know that the decline in vaccinations, in addition to the judiciary, is due to talk shows where opinionists speak that do not have any scientific basis and, unfortunately, the order of doctors also woke up a little late. Even family doctors and pediatricians have not spent enough time these years, unless they had given to know that there was a decrease in vaccinations. This measure has a devastating impact, but we are also accustomed to acts of this Government, as unfortunately of the Government that preceded it, of arrogance and legislation extremely ill done. The decree-law in question stems instead from a real need of the country, but goes exactly in the opposite direction, because it worries people without giving explanations in the lawful times. It has given a people, the micro-people no vax to have arguments to question parents alarmed by the legislative violence that has led to the assumption of the worst things, including conflicts of interest. President, I am part of a generation that has had comrades with polio at school. I am part of the generation whose parents, when there was a high fever, were shaking, because maybe the children of friends had died from diphtheria or cough, and I believe that vaccinating their children is a great gesture of love and responsibility for their good and it is more important than the anxieties that any parent can have before their vaccination. I do not share the choice of some, by ideology, not to vaccinate their children, also exploiting that immunity of flock, to preserve them anyway from diseases, exploiting the benefits of the anxieties of others who decide to vaccinate their children for a sense of responsibility. However, this decree-law, in this form, in this way, with this timing, with these sanctions, with some marchetta - we hope they remove it - feeds the fears rather than convince. It was born badly, but I hope that it will be improved in this House. [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-07-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-857.ana.u27	He's enlisted to speak Senator Bianco. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-07-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-857.ana.u28	Mr President, I would like to thank my colleagues, senators and senators, those who have spoken and those who have been patiently listening to and thanking the rapporteur, not only for the careful and responsible role she has played in the work of the Commission, but also for her report to this House, which is absolutely in line - in spirit and letter - with the debate that has involved several aspects of vaccination. I shall deal with some of them, those which, in my opinion, I consider most relevant to the substance of the measure and, above all, qualifying the choices which guided and motivated the proposals for amendments adopted by the Commission. The first profile concerns the relationship between the technical scientific facility of the measure and the legislative power, a particular case of a much larger topic that addresses the relations between science and politics. The subtle boundary that separates the autonomy of science and the legislative power has been, is and will be the subject of reflections and researches that embrace more disciplines than human knowledge: philosophy, anthropology, ethics, bioethics, the history of medicine, epistemology, law, bioright and constitutional law. At the practical level, in the exercise of legislative power, it is constitutional jurisprudence that points the way and, among the many judgments in this field, I read a passage from judgment No 282 of 2002, which I consider the closest to our case. [[Brusio.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-07-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-857.ana.u29	Colleagues, please lower your voice, at least those who are next to the speaker.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-07-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-857.ana.u30	WHITE (PD). I quote the judgment: "Save that other constitutional rights or obligations come into play" - it is a fact that in this case it concerns compulsory health treatment - "is not, as a rule, the legislator able to determine directly and specifically what therapeutic practices are allowed, under what limits and under what conditions. Since the practice of medical art is based on scientific and experimental acquisitions, which are constantly evolving. It is a judgment, which, moreover, was opposed to a regional law which intended to abolish a practice - let us say this - uncivilized in the treatment of certain psychiatric disorders, as well as inappropriate. Therefore, the technical and scientific foundations on which the vaccination proposals are based have their autonomy from the action of the legislator. The rational indication, administration and evaluation of results is all within the scientific method, the one that since the early 1800s has profoundly transformed the natural sciences, including medicine, which thus became scientific. The scientific method applied to medicine gives us at this historical stage of its evolution the evidence of various strengths; it directs research and experimentation on the principles of repeatability of the tests - in this sense I quote the forgery of Popper - which evaluates the results of the treatments on the basis of the rigor of the trials, the meta analysis and so on. In concrete terms, the remodulation of the vaccination obligations proposed by the Commission respects that limit between science and politics, because it does not affect the technical and scientific structure of the measure, but, in reconfirming the important need to protect and prevent from diseases with safe and effective vaccines - those present in the National Plan for the prevention of vaccination - foreshadows only a different operational strategy, however conditioned over time, in order to achieve those objectives and not others. In this regard, I greatly appreciated the cutting of some interventions, mainly structured on the technical-scientific architecture of the measure; an effort that I consider valuable and useful. I remember the speeches of Senators Lucio Romano, Aiello, Fucksia, Maurizio Romani, Silvestro and others who - forgive me - do not remember at this moment. Beyond the conclusions taken, some of which are not shared by me - I remember that, even in handling data from scientific literature, some rules, those proper to the scientific method - in any case we all know and we must be aware that evidence is not absolute truth. The result measurement does not have absolute indicators. The complexity and biological variability of every living form, including man, make the responses to treatments changing or better evolutionary. First of all, it is not the crowding of publications on "PubMed" or the citation of individual works that can base challenging scientific statements. In so much disorder you run the risk that everyone can take from the shelves what he thinks most useful. We have already seen this: the Stamina method was based on two publications - I believe - of Belarus. But above all I would ban from this discussion the expression "mass experimentation" for two reasons. The first is absolutely technical: there is nothing to experience, waiting for, in the last ten years, I believe that there are over 5 million children aged from zero to six years who have been subjected to vaccinations, to the majority of vaccinations now included in the compulsory range. The second reason is that this is a rhetorical expression - let us say this - that does not help dialogue, that radicalizes it and that, above all, recalls practices and cultures totally alien to our country and to the constitutional values of respect for the freedom and dignity of the human being, from the Nuremberg Code, passing through the Universal Declaration of Human Rights, to the Oviedo Convention and to the absolutely transparent rules that govern experimentation on man, and not only on man, in our country. Other profiles, on the other hand, are strictly the responsibility of the legislator. I am referring to that strong and choral demand for information, for transparency, for reassurance on the control of the risks associated with vaccination practices. The hearings, the dialogues and the comparisons have led to delays in the provision of tools to govern vaccination policies. There are few regions that can boast appropriate vaccine anagraphs and above all interacting. It is with this measure that a national vaccination registry is finally planned. We must say - and from this point of view I would urge the Government to put it on the agenda - that the severe containment of health funding in recent years has also gone through the vaccination centres. It also passed from there: they were not vaccinated by this. And this has left many signs of itself: turnover blocks, precarious, breakdown of multi-professional teams, which are the soul and essence of a service of proximity to families in the protection of public health. I too - as other Members have already done - gladly thank those operators who are holding up with great dignity and great strength, allowing the system to be maintained. The debate in this House has also given us the evidence that the non-vax positions, although aggressive on the media level and to which the guard must be kept high, are, however, the extreme, radical and minority epiphenomenon of a broader and karst phenomenon, which crosses modern medicine and modern health care. It may seem paradoxical, but even the medicine of evidence may not be self-sufficient when it must fall into the universe of every person to whom it addresses; when it must confront the reference values to which each person inspires his or her own life; when it must fill the distance with fears; when it must deny the false hopes that despair always produces; when it must indicate and make public its own limits. Vaccines, which the entire international scientific community places among the public health centres with a high cost-effectiveness and safety-effectiveness index, also need to be explained to families, because also in public health, behind the numbers that indicate the vaccine coverage, there are people and families, with their own cultures, their own needs, their own uncertainties and their own fears, to which they correspond. And be careful that information and transparency are not only a problem of fighting no vax, but also of protecting the dignity of people, enshrined in Article 32 of the Constitution. I would have liked to have read you a few parts of the letter sent to us by the Director-General of the European Region of the World Health Organisation (WHO), while work was under way, just to tell you that I have used so many words to say the same things that the Juncker Commission recommends to us in Europe, not the WHO Director-General for the European region. It is no coincidence that the joint effort within the Commission has also been to translate into a primary standard, that is, into a law, all those absolutely necessary and urgent recommendations and above all to reorganise a modern national vaccination prevention system. It is true that they were present in a splendid and wonderful document, such as the National Vaccine Prevention Plan, but here we have transferred them to a primary standard, which involves regional vaccine anagraphers, the national vaccine registry, the surveillance system on the adverse effects of vaccines at the head of the Italian Drug Agency (AIFA), the transparency of this system, the public negotiation of vaccines with AIFA, the obligations of the Regions and the Autonomous Provinces to respond to vaccinations, because they are in the essential levels of assistance (LEA) and, therefore, the sanctions measures for the autonomous regions and provinces that do not comply with the obligations of the LEA. The last remark concerns the system of obligations and sanctions. On sanctions you have already heard that the work has been very careful and sober: we have been very careful and you will see that we will still be doing so here on the subject of sanctions. There remains the problem of the obligation, which I have heard is contrary to constitutional principles and, in particular, Article 32 of the Constitution. I don't want to be wise and I'm not a constitutionalist, but I did track down a Constitutional Court ruling that can be considered a pilot in this field. The judgment rejects, with reasons, the application made by a Praetor of Bassano del Grappa concerning the obligation of vaccination against tetanus, hepatitis B, anti-diphtheria and anti-polyo. I quote this sentence because I try to understand - and I would like to do so with you - whether the measure under consideration is within the path of constitutional reasonableness, while touching on a very delicate subject. The Constitutional Court was then presided over by Professor Casavola and the jury was constituted - I remember some members, because they later became Presidents of the Council - by Spanish, Baldassarre, Caianello, Vassalli, Mirabelli and Santosuosso. D'ANNA (ALA-SCLP). Every six months they turn around! WHITE (PD). With regard to vaccinations, the Constitutional Court argues that there is no unconstitutionality of a three-conditioned obligation. The first condition is that the treatment is directed not only to improve and preserve the health of those who are subjected to it, but also to preserve the health of others, because it is precisely this additional purpose, related to health as the interest of the community, to justify the compression of that self-determination of the man that integrates the right to health of each one, as a fundamental right. The second condition is that health treatment does not adversely affect the state of health of the person subjected to it, except for the consequences which, due to their temporary nature and small size, appear normal. I would remind you that in the standard there are exemptions related to the person's state of health and receptiveness, so that they do not cause harm. The third condition is that, in the event of further damage to the health of the person subject to compulsory treatment, the payment of a fair allowance in favour of the injured person is in any case provided. To this could be added compensation, if the conduct of the professionals of the vaccination centres did not comply with the rules by fault (Article 2043 of the Civil Code). In the measure we have clearly established that compensation is provided for the purposes and effects of the law on compensation for vaccination damages. I believe that in this difficult task which we are carrying out - I am fully aware of this - we have followed a path of reasonableness, which is not only constitutional, because the issues are objectively difficult and bordering, but also civil and social. The vaccination obligation has not covered other obligations and has not exempted from many and many other obligations that we have in any case. I hope and believe that these considerations can help all of you, or at least help you to decide today and assume the free determinations on this issue, that - I remember - it is very difficult, because it concerns the protection of the health of the individual also because of the collective interest. And this aspect is really very complicated. [[Applause from the PD and AP-CpE-NCD groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-07-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-857.ana.u31	Senator Endrizzi is enrolled to speak to illustrate the proposal not to move on to the examination of the articles NP1. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-07-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-857.ana.u32	Mr President, let us rewind the tape and come back in May. Let's figure out how a family father would think instead of Minister Lorenzin. I am not saying a scientist, I am not saying a doctor or a graduate, since the Minister is not, but the diligence of a good family father - this is - I expect a Minister. It is also a criterion enshrined in the Cassation. So let us return to the month of May this year. Do we have an outbreak? A new virus from Africa? The Minister of Health in this case puts every measure in place to deal with it. But that's not the case. Have we discovered a serious deficiency at the last moment, magically created and immediately in the vaccine cover? Not even. For some diseases we are very little under the ideal vaccination rate; for measles, rubella and mumps we are about 86%: not far from other European countries, however. We could say, and since when are we under this limit? A month, two months? No, for years. Already in 2013, in fact, we were about 90 percent. So we have epidemics going on? No. Says Endrizzi? No. That is what the January vaccination plan says, and that is also recognised by the President of the Council, Mr Gentiloni. But what do we have? We have an increase in cases over the previous year which should not be overlooked. For all diseases? No, for measles. Now, this is a disease that has annual fluctuations. In 2008, with a higher vaccination rate than the current one, there were still 5.312 cases. And I don't say it, but EpiCentro, the epidemiological portal of the Ministry of Health. In any case, a good father of the family, for the precautionary principle, raises the problem and asks: what goal do I want to achieve? Best vaccine cover. Let us say that we would like to exceed 95%, a threshold indicated by the World Health Organization. How do we get there? A master father intervenes with a leg stretched with a decree-law. He says he decides, commands and forces families to vaccinate. Otherwise, it takes away the country's power; it does not let children go to school and apply capestro sanctions and do as he says. With what results then it is to be seen because, if compliance was obtained with the obligations, then everyone would pay the taxes. But we know that this is not the case, because it is important to make citizens understand. The citizens gladly paid a tax, and gladly paid it because it was explained. I am talking about the tax to enter the euro, even though that euro betrayed us. The citizens gladly paid that tax. And today, if it were explained in scientific terms and in a direct relationship between the doctor and the family the importance of the vaccine, it would not be afraid to be unprovable. In fact, that would be the main requirement. Then, a good father of the family does not adopt the instrument of the decree-law, however unconstitutional because there is no emergency, necessity or striking fact appeared immediately and suddenly; a fact, moreover, that runs contrary to Article 32 of the Constitution by providing obligatory treatment. That's not possible. When it comes to balancing the right to health of the community and of the individual, however, it is necessary to put in place measures, such as, for example, checking the possible complications and informing citizens of the possible consequences, leaving a responsibility and a margin of will. This is what we call informed consent, which is a key principle of medicine that finds its roots in Articles 2, 13 and 32 of the Constitution, then taken up by the Oviedo Convention, ratified by Italy, and the Charter of Fundamental Rights of the European Union. The government has announced no better European commitments. It's a lie. A family father informs and checks where, in Europe, we have the best vaccination rates and best practices. And it turns out that these coincide with the countries in which there is no obligation: France, Germany and England. In France - as I have already said - there are three compulsory vaccines, while in England and Germany there are zero. How, then, do these results come about? Through education, Mrs Rizzotti said earlier, talking about the importance of involving people. (17.31) (Following ENDRIZZI). In some ways, this was also said by my colleague from the PD, who spoke a moment ago about the importance of involvement. But here we are faced with a schizophrenia: on the one hand the principle is affirmed, on the other we proceed like a crusher with an imposition measure. Above all, a father of a family does not oblige the children of his country to give up school, where, moreover, the Constitution provides for the obligation of education. A family father does not have sanctions that allow rich families to escape an obligation and does not give any chance to do so to poor families. It does not allow those who have the economic tools to guarantee parental education to their children, through private institutions, to mock a decree, while forcing others to submit to it. The key principle must be the protection of health, collective as of the individual. We, as the 5 Star Movement, propose a vaccination system based on the recommendation - science says - and we have translated it into a proposal for a law - and therefore not a decree-law - which would be discussed here in Parliament, where everyone would have the opportunity to interact the different souls, sensibilities and their electorate of reference, and not in a decree-law that brings the reasons, perhaps electoral, of an increasingly broken-down majority and to the disarray. That's the way. Instead, we are faced with the usual iron fist. We are faced with the same unreasonableness and violation of constitutional principles, respect for the relationship between Parliament and the Government and also the voice of the citizens who have the right to be represented here. We are faced with a unilateral act that increasingly isolates government and majority in an ivory tower and relegates common sense out of this House. It is very easy to shake instruments and arguments like this, where the confrontation between intransigent positions is radicalized, but it is not only the 5 Star Movement that suffers in the immediate - in the long run this will repay us and you will pay - because it degrades the sense of citizenship, the sense of cohesion of the country and leads to fractures and embarrassment. This you are proposing, indeed you are imposing. So, Mr President, when we also have proof of the internal inconsistency of government recruitment, because first it imposes 12 vaccines and then it realizes that 12 compulsory vaccines have no one and then removes two - so we are at least equal to Romania - I wonder if those two vaccines were not necessary instead. What assessment did the government make to take them back within a few weeks? Perhaps, scratch scratch marks, we will really discover that there is no need for ten compulsory vaccines, also because the example of Veneto tells us that the vaccination rate is very good, even if it can be improved, without there being that obligatory. Then all these hypocrisies, also revealed in the recent passage to the Commission, and the arguments I have raised so far lead me to ask, on behalf of the 5 Star Movement, but I would say in the name of common sense and of individuals who, in conscience, feel that they represent it, pursuant to Rule 96 of the Rules of Procedure, not to pass to the examination of the articles. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-07-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-857.ana.u33	The general debate is closed. I call the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-07-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-857.ana.u34	Mr President, Senators and Senators, in this reply I would like to begin by thanking all those who have spoken because the debate has been extensive and thorough. I shall take up some of the main points of the debate which fall within the measure and which have also been an interesting subject of comparison. I start from the amendment of paragraph 1 of Article 1, i.e. the remodulation of the obligation, which has just been taken up in depth by Senator Bianco in his previous speech and - as he said - based on reasonableness. I say this because some speeches have spoken of political mediation and negotiation. I want to interpret it, however, as a strengthening of the approach taken by the National Vaccine Plan, in which we have all recognized the value of structure. We have also declined the obligation at three different levels: a mandatory reference to historical vaccines, an obligation dictated by the emergency and a strengthening of the recommendation. On the strengthening of the recommendation I want to reassure Senator Aiello who, in his speech, called us not to underestimate the dangers and risks of meningitis that anti-meningococcal vaccination B and C can solve instead. Recommended vaccines, like the entire National Vaccine Plan, are fully funded by the LEAs and their application will be subject to an evaluation by the LEA Monitoring Committee, as required by our amendments. It is above all the three-year period to which the second block of vaccines is subjected that leaves open the opportunity to have within the Chambers also a reasoned report by the Government on the possible choice to renew the obligation or to remodulate it, which will allow to follow and to live together the two instruments of obligatoryness and active promotion in a subsidiary way, in order to be able to make soon prevail and keep the promotion active. Allow me that hope. That will also be the occasion - in my opinion - in the next three-year cadences, when a vaccination system can be defined as more robust and mature, to face the themes of the vaccination hesitation, taken up by several senators - I remember that of Senator Dirindin - because it is actually a request that exists, but that probably at this moment can hardly live with an emergency situation. Senator Romani, we listened to the requests for hesitation and to the doubts and fears that families represented us within the Commissions through their representatives and told in the squares and debates. Everything can be said, but not that we have been deaf and blind, Senator Tosato. We have worked on a number of points, which have already been taken up, but which I would like to mention. I am thinking of the increase in investment in information, which must be yes scientific - as Senator Fucksia pointed out - but also of extreme quality and humanistic footprint. I remember in this sense the very important intervention of Senator Cattaneo, who reminded us that science works for the well-being of all, but to be shared and accepted must be understood. In this case comes the important role of humanists against the risk of making prevail - are the words of Senator D'Ambrosio Lettieri - the emotion about reason. The objective, therefore, is that a mature decision may prevail on vaccinations. A second point that the debate has addressed is the difficult search for a balance between personal freedom and the protection of collective health. Senator Romano is right in reminding us that health is not only a primary right of the individual, but also a prominent interest of the community. On the social value of vaccinations, Senator Puglisi, we have all reflected together. However, it has also been recalled how, in dealing with this debate, each of us, each of the participants in the debate, even outside, brings his own wealth of history and culture. Senator Maturani and Senator Buemi recalled a historical period in which the fear of polio was so heavy that it was a boulder on the shoulders of the parents and how it was then seen with relief the arrival of a tool to contrast it both to ensure health, and above all to look with serenity to the future of their children. Another issue that we have dealt with, and which has been dealt with by Senator Mattesini, although it did not originate in this House, because it is actually going on over time, is the relationship between science, law and politics. Undoubtedly there is the theme of the recognition of solid and truthful scientific sources. It has been said that fake news and social networks have opened a debate in which scientific information and opinions, as well as the partial reference to scientific treaties, have had the same space and often weight; indeed, the weight of the most widespread opinion is stronger in order to unleash doubt. We must therefore make even greater efforts to combat this phenomenon. I would like to give an example of this: it runs on social networks and in the external debate - we have also talked about it here - the data on the obligatory or the administration of vaccines in European countries. It should be almost transparent, but we have heard different terms. In addition, using inaccurate or shared news helps to spread misinformation. On this very issue, even when drawing up the bill of conversion, we wanted to insist, work and I think it is a result of which we will all be proud to bring this work to completion. Drug surveillance comes first, because we understand that information about adverse events is not a legend or a fairy tale, but is sanctioned, established, published and made secure even in their reading. As for the vaccine registry, European data state that our country, Poland and perhaps another Eastern country are the only ones that do not yet have such a computerized system. Precisely because we have always talked about the need for scientific information, it is the first fact we need: i.e., equal data so that all regional systems can integrate with a central system and provide equal information, usable for both the scientific and statistical part, but also usable by the individual in order to have a concentration of their vaccination state over time and to be able to use that phase on which we have worked and also very much insisted, which is the due, necessary bureaucratic simplification within the school system, in order to facilitate families, but also the offices of health companies and schools, in a transfer of data that at some point will have to be public, known and shared, without creating a round of certificates that no longer live up to the times. Of course, there was a regret. Compared to health care personnel, doctors, nurses and all health care workers, more effort would have been made to support a load that will weigh more heavily on them. We have analyzed this aspect and we have found in many that just one of the causes of the reduction of the vaccine covers is due to the consequences of the cuts that the territorial systems and the vaccination services have suffered as weight. A lot of work has been done. The Commission has worked hard and has audited everyone. I say this because I want to make a comment on the intervention of Senator D'Anna, who said that the work of the Senate Health and Health Commission took place as in a kind of tea club, where, from 15.30 to 17, the whole science and all its opposite were heard. All those who were able to take part in the work of the Health and Health Commission, even though they were convinced or strongly opposed, have been able to see how thorough and even tiring, but timely, the work has been done, and I thank your President for that. I should like to conclude by saying one thing. We have talked a lot about vaccines, and I also hope that we can return as soon as possible to a system that can represent a robust maturity in relation to approaching vaccination, and I also hope that the discussion of these days and the last hours will send a strong signal to the government and the Minister of the importance of vaccination and above all make them look to the future, the field of research, the creation of new vaccines and an ever new and better production of them. And I say this because research must be continuous and constant and this must be its evolution. It is clear that innovation, even with new methods of administration, can facilitate an aversion to the use of needle and syringe - it is one of the factors - because there are ancient diseases, such as tuberculosis and malaria, against which it is necessary to find solutions, as well as there are risks of new epidemics (I remember Zika and Ebola) that always become moment of fear when the news arrives through the newspapers. Last but not least, there are trials or opportunities, which we can see, to have vaccines against certain cancers. The call is, therefore, to strengthen investment in research and production of vaccines, for an increasingly protected future health. Like a cat biting its tail, you can think of going back to point one. At a time when we are talking about new productions of vaccines and new research, we must think, having a responsibility not only local and not only national, with a broader view, of the need to produce and supply vaccines also to those countries and to those populations that today do not have the maximum use of them. Where you die, where children die, you would like to have medicines to save yourself and your children. We, who fortunately live a moment of greater well-being, must instead face doubt and fear. For families, fears and fears are more than understandable. We, on the other hand, have a responsibility to give them answers, to avoid exploitation and to think about good and collective health. [[Applause from the PD Group and Senator Bianconi]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-07-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-857.ana.u35	I call the representative of the Government.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-07-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-857.ana.u36	Mr President, kind senators and kind senators, I would like to begin by expressing my warmest thanks for the very constructive debate that has taken place in the Commission. I would like to thank the Commission's technicians, the kind senators and the kind senators who also took part in night sessions to arrive at a text that is widely shared and which would enable us to achieve the objective that I believe we are all giving ourselves, even those who can have positions in this House, namely to ensure the safety of our community. The path of work in the Commission has not been easy, but it has been complicated. But, as I have always said, I have an extremely secular attitude to this subject, and then I will show you why. In my opinion, this is not a question of political belonging, it is not about being members of one party or another, because we are dealing with one of the biggest and most important issues of public health: that of vaccination prophylaxis, the coverage and immunization of our society. It is an extremely important theme and only those who have dealt with it and have experienced it on their own skin, from close up, can know what we are talking about. Today health workers and doctors again see cases of coughing in the neonatal wards after twenty years that did not see them anymore, and those who found themselves in our large hospitals in Lazio, Veneto, Sicily, Lombardy, Campania, to mention only some Regions, the First Aid full of people with measles. [[Comments from the M5S Group.]] Mr Paglini (M5S). Where? PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Please don't interrupt the Minister. ISGRO CHOLIPOTI' (FI-PdL XVII). Give us names and surnames. Mr LORENZIN, Minister for Health. Or the many sick people with a disease... [[Comments from Senators Scilipoti Isgro' and De Pin.]] That is the level of the debate.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-07-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-857.ana.u37	Senator Sciliopti Isgro', I'm calling you back to order.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-07-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-857.ana.u38	[[Comments by Senator Sciliopti Isgro'.]] Senator Sciliopti Isgro, I'm calling you back to order for the second time. Mr LORENZIN, Minister for Health. Or the many people who have had measles with complications [[Comments of Senator De Pin]] , serious admissions, and that still today, in these hours, while we are talking, are facing rehabilitation therapies. That's a lot. The measles cases we've had, and we've still had, indicate an epidemic, and these are cases that we wouldn't have had if the population had... DE PIN (GAL (DI, GS, MPL, RI)). But where? PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator De Pin, I'll call you back to order. Mr LORENZIN, Minister for Health. I believe one thing, gentlemen. We are talking about the vaccination of the country; we are talking about the immunization of our children and I believe that it is in everyone's interest to listen to the reasons of the government and listen to the reasons, since they have been urged from several quarters, which have prompted the Minister of Health to take this measure. We can do this in this House or in the newspapers. [[Comments of Senator De Pin]] I believe that this House reflects the sense of the institution that all the senators represent here in this House. [[Applause from the AP-CpE-NCD Groups, PD]] and Aut (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT)-PSI-MAIE) representing 60 million Italians. We are talking about a matter that concerns everyone's health. DE PIN (GAL (DI, GS, MPL, RI)). Mine too. Mr LORENZIN, Minister for Health. Even people who still have to be born, so those who will be born in the next few years, and we hope more and more. This year vaccinations have saved 2,500,000 lives in the world. Statistically, the people saved from measles are a million: these are the data and they are huge figures, which give the idea of the importance of vaccinations. While we are having this debate here, on the other side of the sea, on our Mediterranean Sea, the countries are asking us to help them vaccinate their children, for these vaccinations that we make compulsory. This is not because they have vaccination hesitations, but because they do not have the economic resources to buy and guarantee these vaccines that save the lives of their children and adults. Let me, however, take a step back and tell you here how we came to the proposition of this decree-law. Over the course of these years I have had a whole series of stresses compared to the decrease in the coverage of vaccinations in Italy. During the debate, many wondered how it was possible that the government did not notice before we had fallen into mass immunization; that, hand-to-hand, over the years, we had a decrease in the vaccine coverage in our country. Yes, we did. In 2013, as soon as I became Minister, one of the first reminders I received from national and international authorities concerned the level of immunization in Italy and the gradual decline we were having. Not surprisingly, we have made the regions aware of vaccination campaigns; we have begun to talk more and more about vaccination, the importance of vaccination and the fact that there is no scientific correlation between measles vaccination and the onset of autism. None. Yes, because this is one of the factors that triggered this kind of post truth; talking about fake news is too noble: a lie that poisoned the wells of scientific and health culture of entire populations. We started working on it. We have drawn up a National Vaccine Plan which, in the Commission, the members of all the parties present have condemned and which aims precisely at increasing vaccination awareness and ensuring that vaccinations are free of charge. ENDRIZZI (M5S). Awareness! Mr LORENZIN, Minister for Health. Despite this work, the data, the indices, the onset of the measles epidemic have shown how we need in this country to recover entire cohorts of unimmunized children that have added up year by year. The problem is certainly not 87 percent of children vaccinated against measles compared to 95 percent this year, but how many children we have lost in the last ten years: 50,000, 60,000, 70,000 per year, multiplied for decades. This has resulted in the fact that in our country we have holes, and what we see in data statistics, these figures (92, 87, 85) constitute the average: it means that in the same territory, in the same Region, in a Province, you can have a coverage of 95 percent and 75 percent, 73. These are the data and are incontrovertible. This means that, in the face of the outbreak, we are not covered. DE PIN (GAL (DI, GS, MPL, RI)). What are you talking about? Mr LORENZIN, Minister for Health. What does a government do then? He addresses this issue with responsibility, speaking to his own citizens and to his own ruling classes, saying: we have an urgency, which is not simply planning, from here to ten years. The urgency is to bring up this low level of immunization quickly and quickly; that is, to secure the community. This is the meaning of Article 32 of the Constitution, which establishes not only the right to individual health, but the duty of the State to ensure collective health, collective security in a universalist system like ours. [[Senator D'Anna's comments.]] That's why we intervened with the aim of getting the vaccine covers back up quickly. I have listened to many indications about this, but there are times when, as far as the good father of the family is concerned, we are talking about the good mother of the family, since it is women who make these decisions in our families, when we have to take full responsibility. [[Applause from the PD Group.]] [[Comments of Senators Taverna and De Pin.]] Mr Lezzi (M5S). Go outside, there's a lot of moms! Mr LORENZIN, Minister for Health. What has happened is to make a decision in the interests of the whole population, even assuming the weight of having to explain some measures. If we had had a different climate, with a solid basic culture based on scientific evidence, this debate in the Senate would not have been necessary; it would not have had these tones. I hear that the country is divided: the country is not divided, we divide it [[Applause from the PD, AP-CpE-NCD and Aut (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT) and PSI-MAIE groups.]] We have a small part of the population who is convinced that vaccines are bad. Mr Lezzi (M5S). Then why are you forcing them? Mr LORENZIN, Minister for Health. It is a very small part of the population, well represented, apparently, but it is little part. Then there's another part of the population that's confused. [[Comments of Senator Lezzi]] and we have a duty, if we believe in the goodness of vaccinations, to get out of this House and make it clear that vaccines are important... [[Senator Marton's comments.]] Mr Lezzi (M5S). You're complaining! Mr LORENZIN, Minister for Health. ...that are the main weapon of prevention and that save the lives of our children; that we do not want to have on our conscience the people in hospitals that we have interest in collective security [[Applause from the PD, AP-CpE-NCD and Aut (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT) and PSI-MAIE groups. Comments from the M5S Group and Senator D'Anna. Senator Lezzi's protests.]] Mr LORENZIN, Minister for Health. That's bullshit. ( [[Senator Lezzi's protests.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-07-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-857.ana.u39	Senator Lezzi, I'll call you back to order.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-07-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-857.ana.u40	[[Comments from the M5S Group.]] Mr Lezzi (M5S). What a health of children! Get out! [[Comments from the PD Group. Protests from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-07-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-857.ana.u41	Senator Lezzi, I'll call you back to order for the second time.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-07-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-857.ana.u42	Mr LORENZIN, Minister for Health. I have heard many things in this House and I really hope that there will be a call for reasonableness in the continuation of the debate. Mr Lezzi (M5S). Without even an accompaniment! PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Excuse me, Minister. Everyone has the opportunity to speak and to speak, but one cannot interrupt the speaker. MARTON (M5S). Even Senator Mirabelli, then. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. No matter where the interruption comes in, Senator Marton. [[Senator Airola's comments.]] Let the surgery be completed without interruption. Don't make me take measures I don't want to take. Please conclude, Minister. Mr LORENZIN, Minister for Health. On vaccinations, there has been a great debate on mandatory: compulsory yes or compulsory, hasn't there been? We have chosen the obligation precisely in order to achieve this level of immunisation in a short time and we have found a solution, I think, shared by the large part of this Parliament that allows us to keep the obligatoryness linked only to the end of the achievement of mass immunization, therefore for a phase of accompaniment to the National Plan of Vaccine Prevention, that allows us to secure everyone in a serene way. With regard to the compulsory nature, which many who cite world organizations is considered not to be useful, I have here a written note sent to Italy by the WHO Directorate-General, past and present, which says that vaccination strategies related to school enrolment have proved to be effective in many countries in order to avoid epidemics in schools and obtain high vaccine coverage. He continues by quoting the cases, for example that of California, where this was done precisely for measles, bringing the obligatory to nine vaccinations and, where, within a year and a half (12 months) have reached the health objectives that the State of California had in charge. I hope we can do this in 18 months. I hope so, but we can only do this together. It will be a goal of the country, which will make us all grow together, especially together with families. We have also accepted all the rewordings that come with families. We expect, in the aftermath of this debate, an engagement of the entire Italian medical community, of doctors of general medicine, of pediatricians of free choice and hospital, of family consultors, of all those figures who are next to mothers and fathers before and after birth, in a path of accompaniment to recover a cultural gap. If we have reached this point it is because seventeen years after removing the vaccination obligation we probably no longer had the perception of the risk. Until 1999 there was compulsory vaccination and no one questioned vaccinations. If today we have to put it back on the ground, it is because, unfortunately, the lack of active policies that has been taking place for decades has led to the loss of the perception of risk in the population. The risk is strong, the complications of these diseases are many serious [[Comments of Senator De Pin]] and I really hope that none of us should talk anymore about children who are dead or adult people who are in serious condition, for diseases that can simply be avoided with vaccination, which together with antibiotic is the greatest achievement of modern health care. It is a conquest of civilizations, which we have achieved in our country and in the world. [[Applause from the PD, AP-CpE-NCD and Aut groups (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT) - PSI-MAIE and Senator Rizzotti]] I will conclude by making an invitation. During the debate I heard a lot about complications or nanoparticles, issues on which we will certainly have the opportunity to enter into depth into the substance during the debate on the amendments: it is worth doing so, in order to reassure people and also to establish a debate on scientific truth, on the many things that we hear and that are said and repeated, often - indeed always - without any evidence. However, let me make a reference to the role of this House and the history of this parliamentary term. The history of this legislature, from a health point of view, was characterized by the fact that we had to compare with antiscience. [[Applause from the PD, AP-CpE-NCD and Aut groups (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT) - PSI-MAIE]] and we have done so in this very House on the Stamina case. We have engaged in a debate that lasted more than a year and many of the issues that have been raised have been affected here. It is a debate that has brought to light the true and proven truth and the non-truth behind it. This House won that anti-science debate and won Italy, our families, our researchers and our national health system. We are at the end of the parliamentary term and we are again facing a debate on anti-science. This is the sign of our time, but it is also the sign of the great responsibility that all the members of this Assembly have - not for today, but for posterity - and that this Minister has in front of the country. It is a responsibility that comes first of all and it is to affirm the truth of scientific evidence in the face of post-truths and to stand as a bulwark for collective security and the protection of our National Health Service. They are measures like this that allow us to still have a universalist system considered among the best in the world and to have our doctors and our researchers, who are among the most qualified in the world. Therefore, when our researchers and scientific institutions speak, they speak people and institutions with great authority and politics, in the face of scientific institutions, must take a side step [[Applause from the PD, AP-CpE-NCD and Aut groups (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT) - PSI-MAIE]] , because politics does not make science and does not determine science. Politics, if it is good politics, accompanies scientific choices, explains, manages them, regulates them and gives them to its citizens [[Comments of Senator Montevecchi]] , because we are here, together, fighting to ensure the access of our citizens, not only to innovative therapies, but also to those that are old styles, but that allow everyone to live in health and safety. [[Applause from the PD, AP-CpE-NCD and Aut (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT) and PSI-MAIE groups. Senator Taverna's comments.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-07-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-857.ana.u43	I would like to inform you that the Presidency - and I am in distribution - has received the opinions of the 1st and 5th standing Commission on the draft law under consideration and the amendments, which will be published in an annex to today's report. We shall now proceed to the vote on the proposal not to proceed to the debate on the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-07-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-857.ana.u44	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-07-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-857.ana.u45	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-07-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-857.ana.u46	TOSATO (LN-Aut). Mr President, on behalf of the Group of the North Legacy, I wish to say that we are in favour of the proposal not to move on to the examination of the articles and the Minister's reply has convinced us even more that this is the way forward. In this House we wanted to create a false debate, in which we want to highlight a supposed contrast between those who are in favour of vaccines and those who are against them, but that is not the debate in this House, in this debate and in this legislative decree. [[Applause from Senators De Pin, Mussini and Simeoni. Comments from the PD Group]] The theme is another, i.e. whether the decree-law under consideration, which is made of taxation [[Applause from Senator Simeoni),]] fines and a conflicting relationship with citizens is a useful tool for increasing the level of vaccination and conviction of families that vaccinations are useful or an instrument that undermines this relationship of trust between institutions and citizens. [[Senator Mirabelli's comments.]] On this we have the clear ideas, because the Ministry of Health has authorized the Veneto Region to implement a different policy than that of obligatory, which is made of communication, information and continuous and constant relationship with free vax associations to try to explain what is the utility of vaccination policies. This model worked and continues to work. And you want to destroy it by using a completely different mechanism, based on an act of force and arrogance against the freedom of choice of families, and an act of political irresponsibility, because you will not make less confusing the part of the population that is suspicious of vaccinations, but - indeed - with this imposed provision you will increase the sense of confusion, doubts, disputes in the courts, concerns and even anger of many families. In fact, you delude yourself if you think that with the measure, the result of an act of force and coercion, you will be able to induce the distrustful families against vaccinations to resort to it spontaneously. You will simply get the opposite effect, increase the mistrust of these families and the relationship will become more conflictual. You will have to assume all the responsibilities for this. Nowhere in the world is there the possibility for the Government to use force, coercion and punishment to overcome a force that is even greater, that is, the will of families to protect the health of their children. You should have convinced the families of the usefulness of vaccination policies and pursued the policy that - I repeat - we promoted in the Veneto Region. That was your job. With the decree-law under consideration you will worsen the situation and become even more damaging the relationship between the Ministry of Health, health in general and families. The relationship will become of total distrust, mistrust and remoteness from politics. For these reasons, we are in favour of not going through the articles, considering that, following a different legislative path, we can better address the issue. Honestly, we regret that some political forces, such as Forza Italia, are making themselves complicit in this act of force of the majority and the government. [[Applause from the LN-Aut and M5S groups and Senator De Pin.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-07-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-857.ana.u47	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-07-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-857.ana.u48	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-07-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-857.ana.u49	D'ANNA (ALA-SCLP). Mr President, the ALA Group is also in favour of not passing through the articles. I see Minister Lorenzin has disappeared. Where is he? We want to refute the existence of two orders of problems, the completely false ones and the wrong ones. As far as the completely fake ones are concerned, it is claimed that there is an anti-vaccine party here. I have heard Senator Bianco, who has my highest esteem, also because he is a Neapolitan with no accent. Everyone takes it not for Neapolitan, but for northern, which increases the esteem for his science. He looked like Louis Pasteur. I have been proud to hear that in the Commission of which I am a member, but in which I never participate, in addition to holding hearings, there have been such high points of knowledge, of which I doubt, because here we are putting a simple problem, to which you are obstinate not to want to give an answer. And you're mad at me. Tests of electronic microscopy made in several universities, not only Italian, have shown that within vaccines, except that to immunize the cat, there is the presence of a number of substances such as plastic, tungsten, steel, aluminium, traces of metals and, recently, also the presence of a few hundred nanograms of mercury. With regard to this evidence, does anyone care to ask for pure vaccines, which do not contain these fetishes? [[Applause from Senators De Pin, Pepe and Simeoni.]] Is there anyone who wants to answer, the Minister, the President of the Health Commission, the authoritative and eminent men of science, doctors, pharmacists, surgeons, a poor biologist, a punk like me? Do you want to answer us? You want to reassure the moms who are out there, under the sun, with their children, who don't seem like Valmy's army to me, and they don't even look like Erinni who are here to conculcate your science? They are people who must not be converted by shots of vaccine on the head, but they must be converted using what the Minister calls non-science. Probably, what you call non-science is not yet a proven and certified science, like many of the things that official science says it has certified and has not certified. In fact, you should explain to us why, when the cough and diphtheria disappeared in 1990, you started the vaccination campaign just that year. The Minister should answer us, instead, to get lost in the cards that we will entrust to the devouring criticism of the mice of his Ministry when he leaves, that is, when politics will take that side step to give the Dicastery to a scientist and not to a politician, if you really want to know. The Minister must tell us why it is not possible to open up to a confrontation with eminent virologists and scientists, with someone who certainly knows something more than me, something more than Senator White and something certainly more than Minister Lorenzin, who knows little and nothing. She knows what those of Merck Sharp & Dohme, the president of the Higher Institute of Health, who takes 600,000 euros from Merck Sharp & Dohme, as the friends of the Article 1-MDP Group have said, to get paid a chair at the University. Are these your advisors? Then, Mr President, be forgiving. The Minister referred to Article 32 of the Constitution. True, the state must provide, but when there is a threat to health, not when we brainically rise and become the only country that the World Health Organization identifies as a point of reference in vaccination campaigns. And we jump to the top of the list of compulsory vaccines, while underdeveloped countries such as England, such as France, like Germany, like Sweden, have given up this record. I don't have certainties. Men of science don't have any. I believe that the Minister should read something about Popper's epistemology, the philosophy of science, the fact that in science everything is valued for the evidence of forgery and for the proof of repetition. In vaccines, there's fetenzia that doesn't have to be. Those vaccines inoculated in children of three or twelve months go to disturb and interfere with an immune system: there is no doubt about this. Similarly, official science should explain where the rise in allergies, autoimmune diseases and certain pathologies comes from. carcinogenic. Why is official science so incapable of giving answers and when other scientists formulate hypotheses they must be treated like rascals? There are mothers and fathers, parents who do not want to be imposed by an ethical state the coercion that harms their natural right and their country power; a state that takes the trouble to impose and concult natural rights, but is not able to resort to the military pharmaceutical chemical plant, because the Minister said it is not equipped. We're gonna use it, Minister! We're gonna use it! Send his friends from Glaxo home! [[Applause from Senators Pepe, De Pin and Simeoni]] You send them to that country, order them to make pure vaccines that do not contain these substances. That is what we are asking: that the state should not go so far as to say: You'll eat this soup or we'll kick you out of the window. I want to say one last thing not to disturb friends who live with certainties and who are on the other side of the hemicycle. I see Senator Mirabelli very nervous and I don't want to disturb him. [[Comments of the Senators Mirabelli and Barba]] I turn to Senator Zanda who made the "copecchie" with Senator Romani, as we will soon see, because you did not put your trust and agreed. Now we'll see if the League withdraws its signatures for secret vows. We'll see a lot of things in here.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-07-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-857.ana.u50	Conclude, Senator D'Anna.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-07-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-857.ana.u51	D'ANNA (ALA-SCLP). Can you tell us which of the constitutional rights is greater? The right to education or the right to health? In fact, unimmunized children will be denied the right to education. Can you tell me what the priority is in this ethical state? Which of these two rights is greater? You don't know that, because you're making a vulgar test of strength. You are giving the worst proof of politics. Other than great themes and great ideals. Here one day we will see that it will only be sordid interests. [[Applause from the ALA-SCCLP, LN-Aut and Aut groups (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT)-PSI-MAIE) and Senator Pepe. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-07-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-857.ana.u52	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-07-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-857.ana.u53	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-07-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-857.ana.u54	ROMANI Paolo (FI-PdL XVII). Mr President, in my short political career, between the mountain of doubt and the mountain of certainty I have always preferred to climb the mountain of doubt. Similarly, we asked for this debate to be opened in Parliament, since there has been an extraordinary debate on this subject in the country, precisely because there are so many doubts that we have about the certainties that someone evoked in the previous speeches. I have also perished (I do not know how many of my colleagues have done so) to meet those in the square who have manifested. Dear Senator D'Anna, I met for an hour and a half those who were in the square today. There was a delegation, she came to see me, and I confronted them. It was important and interesting, because they offered so many points of view: so many definitive convictions that they should not vaccinate, others that instead claimed that the obligatory vaccine should not be included, while others contested the numbers that the Minister evoked earlier in his speech. So there is a frank, open and important debate. I do not remember recently a government measure that has opened such a vast debate in the country is important, in the media, in the squares and in the families. Whoever we are talking to today, anyone is aware of the fact that this confrontation has opened and that it is being examined and being approved today in the Senate, perhaps tomorrow in the House, this provision. It seemed to me important - I asked myself - that the government should not provide for trust and instead leave the freedom for this House to continue this path. There are some 300 amendments before us. I have the feeling, because we have also spoken with the Government, that there is the possibility of greatly improving the measure that came out of the Commission. Of this I do, but we shall see it in the facts and in the amendments that will be put to the vote, if this really will happen and I hope that it will happen. There are conditions, on the one hand, to respect the desire for debate that exists in the country and that is now taking place in this House, in a solemn way, on a difficult subject and, on the other hand, there is the possibility that the measure so contested by some may perhaps be improved for certain parts even fundamental. I believe that we must tackle this path with the awareness and responsibility that distinguishes us and, for this reason, I will ask my Group to vote against the proposal not to move on to the examination of the articles. [[Applause from the FI-PdL XVII and PD Groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-07-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-857.ana.u55	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote in dissent from my Group.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-07-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-857.ana.u56	I take note of that and give you the floor.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-07-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-857.ana.u57	ISGRO CHOLIPOTI' (FI-PdL XVII). Mr President, I have listened with great interest and I want to make it very clear that no one here is against vaccines. We are for vaccines that are useful and that could be useful for our children. The declaration that the Government had no title to make a decree-law is not mine, but of a gentleman bearing the name of Ferdinand Imposimato. That is not my statement. [[Comments from the PD Group and Senator Buemi]] This is a man who has something to say to you and deliver you. Mr President, we have been thinking aloud and not because we think differently we should be threatened with being put out of the door. We have asked ourselves - and I ask you, Mr President of the Senate, because I trust you - whether what is written in the newspapers and what you hear today is true or not. Mr Lorenzin - who does not enter into the substance of the debate because I recognise her as Minister but I believe that, from a health point of view, she has the competence because someone else has given her, but she has not personally - should respond to what we have asked for for for clarity with regard to us and with regard to the Italian citizens. Is it true or not that two people made this plan, one of whom indirectly benefited from sponsorship for a university chair and bears the name of Ricciardi? Is it true or not that there is a character who bears the name of Pecorelli who in 2015 was put at the door because he had unclear relationships and consequently there was a conflict of interest? [[Laughter]] Is it true or not that those who participated in the construction of all this path are four multinationals and two multinationals have sponsored with 600,000 euros the chair of a university professor and the association linked to this professor is made of children, grandchildren and cousins? [[Comments of the PD Group]] Mr President, when we say these things, we do so not only in order to create confusion, but in order to make clear to those who are outside and cannot hear things that go against the basic principles of common sense and the correctness of our children. Mr D'Anna is right and I say this with great force because I take responsibility for it. When there is a perplexity, we are obliged to stop, clarify and then move forward. Anyone who wants to go on at all costs is an accomplice and compromise and I feel like saying it before men and before God. Mr President, that is my statement. [[Comments of the PD Group]] DE BIASI (PD). Forget about God.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-07-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-857.ana.u58	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote in dissent from my Group.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-07-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-857.ana.u59	I take note of that and give you the floor.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-07-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-857.ana.u60	MAZZONI (ALA-SCLP). Mr President, I would like to say that, in line with the speech I made this morning in general debate and strengthened in this conviction also by Mr Lorenzin's speech, I am opposed by my group to the proposal not to move on to the examination of the articles. [[Applause from the PD Group and Senator Fucksia.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-07-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-857.ana.u61	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-07-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-857.ana.u62	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-07-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-857.ana.u63	D'Ambrosio Lettieri (GAL (DI, GS, MPL, RI)). Mr President, allow me to explain the opposition of the Italian management member of the LAG Group with an assessment that would like to regain the sense of a mature and responsible dialectic. We are in the Senate House and the discussion and debate that is taking place there should facilitate, promote and promote the best understanding of the issues, removing the spectrum of ideological issues that seem to be centered around the very delicate issues that we are talking about and which we must approach without prejudice and above all, if I may, documenting in a responsible and correct way the statements that are being made. On the pollutants present in vaccines, even the numerous analyses commissioned by anti-vax movements have certified that the presence of mercury is so low that it is almost homeopathic and that it is higher than that present in water, air and food that we ingest. Let us therefore avoid that politics is above science and let us instead make sound and responsible politics orient the decisions of this House according to scientific assessments. It is paradoxical, ladies and gentlemen, that this legislature began by talking about the case of Stamina and ends with the case of vaccines; two emblematic cases that form a paradox in which, in one way, we have witnessed the tentopolies of those who supported, promoted and pushed the legislator to allow access to therapeutic methods without scientific foundation and, on the other, where the scientific foundation exists (since it is acquired internationally that the vaccination practices represent the greatest achievement after water purification) we have introduced, on absolutely serious bases of insinuations and resounding scientific unfoundedness, the culture of the suspicion that induces the population, not to be opposed, but to be confused. I therefore hope, Mr President, that the examination of the amendments will take place under a different inspiration, on the basis of common sense and reasonableness, because we can still improve the measure and clear out those shadow cones that still exist, in order to deliver to the country not only the truth, but also a measure that really protects the health of the people. [[Applause from the LAG Group (DI, GS, MPL, RP).]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-07-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-857.ana.u64	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-07-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-857.ana.u65	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-07-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-857.ana.u66	WHITE (AP-CpE-NCD). Mr President, we will reject the proposal made by the 5 Star Movement, because we are convinced of the work done in 12a. Commission within the path that the Minister of Health has indicated about the obligatory nature of vaccines. We are convinced of this, because we feel the responsibility of the community, we feel the responsibility of a state that, in the face of children, who are certainly the most defenceless, has the need to guarantee them an important vaccine coverage. We, Mr President, are ready to discuss amendment on amendment in this House, strong in this conviction and with the courage to know that we are doing something important for our nation. Now and also in the next legislatures we will continue to advocate this necessity, this vaccine cover that has absolutely lowered over the years. Mr President, we are also quite concerned about what we have heard in this House during this debate, and I want to say this in a very peaceful way. Faced with the friends of the Veneto League, who claim that through conviction, communication, relationship, dialogue and non-obligatoryness they have managed to have good vaccine cover, we subtly want to remember the data that we have heard in this House and in the Health Commission, also by the authoritative heads of vaccine cover. On all the issues of vaccines that we are dealing with in this decree-law, Veneto is abundantly below 90%, and we know well that the World Health Organization requires at least 95% coverage to have that flock effect of coverage and health throughout our national territory. And again, Mr President, I would like to read very carefully the statements made recently by Senator Scilipoti Isgro', who said that there is compromise and complicity. I want to understand how you hooked up to these concepts, because maybe I wasn't careful. I want to reread those words, which are truly scandalous in such a serious Chamber, which is seriously dealing with such a subject. [[Applause from the AP-CpE-NCD, PD, Art.1-MDP, and Aut (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT)-PSI-MAIE Groups]] And I want to see how he has linked this complicity with all the debate that is outside, a debate that is certainly confused and that we risk, with these statements, making it even more confusing. And finally, I want to say something to Senator Paolo Romani, who is an extremely serious person. We very much appreciate what he has said and we appreciate the fact that he wants to measure himself on the amendments, in order to improve this measure. But, Senator Romani, it's not like you can have a drunk wife and a full barrel. You should also be responsible for the amendments that from this point of view are against the improvement of a law text and a decree-law that could really do the good of the nation. And remember, we belonged to a large family, the liberal family, who never looked into anyone's face on health issues. [[Applause from the AP-CpE-NCD, PD, and Aut (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT)-PSI-MAIE Groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-07-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-857.ana.u67	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-07-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-857.ana.u68	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-07-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-857.ana.u69	ROMANI Maurizio (Misto-Idv). Mr President, I must say that I would not have expected, after lengthy discussions in the Commission, that we would come to this House so divided and so angry. In fact, the intervention of a Minister - I am sorry, Minister - should be aimed at calming down, relaxing souls and trying to convince people that there is no great danger but a supposed measles epidemic. But you see, Minister, there are two things you need to explain personally to me and to many others. Is there this measles epidemic? Good. How many deaths did you cause? Hundreds of dead, as you say? I don't know, and it doesn't turn out to anyone. Having said that, I am perfectly convinced of the importance of vaccines; I know perfectly well, having studied in medical books and not in other books, that, after water purification, vaccination was the greatest discovery, to solve health problems worldwide. But this is no longer the case in the developed countries; it is very important for the Third World countries. We have other serious epidemics, which I have tried to make clear to you in my speech. Our epidemics are called diabetes, hypertension, autoimmune diseases, HIV, hepatitis C. These are our epidemics, and we happen to not have so many vaccines and so many solutions for them. I have heard several speeches and I have also listened to Senator D'Anna's speech; I must say that some things he said are extremely welcome, Senator D'Anna. But there is one thing that worries me: why, since many of the amendments we are debating in the Commission have passed by eleven votes to ten, have you never come to the Commission to tell us your ideas? [[Applause from Senators Bencini and Taverna.]] Why did some of them turn away from the Commission when we could discuss these matters? This morning I made a critical intervention on this way of carrying out the compulsory vaccination. Many of those people who are out protesting, protest not against vaccinations, but against the method, against the way in which they are set, against the impossibility of doing a single vaccination, to vaccinate the child at twenty-four, twenty-five or twenty-six months, instead of three months: this is the greatest concern of those who are out. Identifying them as no vax is really an offense, and the fact, among other things, that in the preface of this measure were placed on the same level those who are opposed to vaccines and those who talk about unconventional medicines I consider it a personal offense. Because I have time, I have plenty of time to talk to patients, I explain to them why you can vaccinate later, which many doctors don't do for lack of time. If we break, as I said this morning, this relationship of trust that we have entered into with our patients, if a patient stands in front of me and tells me: "She is forced to tell me that I have to make vaccines otherwise they disbar her, I have lost my ability to convince a patient. [[Applause from the Mixed Group.]] If a patient says scientific nonsense, this stays between the patient and me. If a minister or any of us says big lies and big nonsense, then we are no longer credible: that is the fundamental difference; that is what we have to work on. I have also said that, since I believe that citizens must understand that the State is on their side and not against them, I do not want to hear about conspiracy, as has happened at the moment. To put it on conspiracy is stupid, because it is not scientific, and I would like this debate to remain scientific. I am in favour of not passing on to the articles, for one reason only: I hope that all those who have spoken out here against these amendments and are members of the Health Commission will come to the Health Commission to discuss them there. It has happened many times that we have all come out of the Health Commission convinced that we have done the best we can; we have all said the same things and we have all appreciated the work of the Commission. If going back to the Health Commission is to see the faces of those who have not put it there, I am convinced that this is a useful step. [[Applause from the Mixed Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-07-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-857.ana.u70	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-07-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-857.ana.u71	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-07-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-857.ana.u72	BUEMI (Aut (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT)-PSI-MAIE). Mr President, on behalf of the Group for the Socialist Autonomies and the Maje Party, we will vote against the proposal of the 5 Star Movement and the non-turn to the articles, and I would like to explain why. First, however, I would ask colleagues who have suggested a possible personal interest of those in favour of this measure, to withdraw this statement because it is unacceptable. It is unacceptable in particular to those, like myself, who are in competition with multinational companies every day and know perfectly well what their prevaricating action is in our country. I would also ask for positioning when discussing other issues concerning multinational companies, my dear colleague, Mr D'Anna. D'ANNA (ALA-SCLP). We're here. BUEMI (Aut (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT)-PSI-MAIE). You are there but you are often silent when we discuss certain measures which concern the multinationals themselves, for example, the opening up of our market to genuine competition. We'll see what you do when we examine the competition measure. However, I remain on the subject, ladies and gentlemen. Someone said - perhaps my colleague, Mr Romano - that there is no compulsory vaccination law in Sweden, but there are no signs in Sweden either - that there is no waste on the roads here. Dear colleagues, we need the vaccination obligation, because our country is very willing to pursue the "shocks," as is happening with this measure. Here there is no need to prove anything; we need to take note of fifty years of history of health care in our country, of what have been the conquests in our country. And if there is no imminent danger today, it is because there have been those achievements, that mandatory action, that contribution of the State to the poorest classes of this country that needed the obligatory vaccination [[Applause from the Aut Groups (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT) - PSI-MAIE, PD and AP-CpE-NCD]] because they were not in a position to pay for the vaccines that you, rich, had for free or from your families! You forgot about this. D'ANNA (ALA-SCLP). 1948. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator D'Anna, please. BUEMI (Aut (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT)-PSI-MAIE). Not in 1948, 1950, 1960 and many more years. So I say this, ladies and gentlemen: science shows us that vaccines are not bad: they are good, they protect us. When there are more advanced proposals, we will examine them with great cultural, scientific, mental, ethical, religious, political openness, put it as you wish. Today vaccination is the most advanced stage of prevention for a whole series of diseases, in a situation of great passage, of rapidity of people from one world to another, who bring positive factors but also old and new risks. So I am of the opinion, dear Minister, that we must put the sign: This is where vaccination is compulsory. When we no longer need it, we will also remove the signs from the streets that say not to throw the garbage along the road, but I that I go around Italy I see too much and I see too much of them from the very parts where these voices rise with great indignation. [[Applause from the Aut Groups (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT) - PSI-MAIE, PD and AP-CpE-NCD. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-07-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-857.ana.u73	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-07-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-857.ana.u74	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-07-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-857.ana.u75	FUCKSIA (FL (Id-PL, PLI)). Mr President, we are of the opinion that we need to speak on the substance of the amendments and, if possible, try to improve the measure. I would also like to highlight certain comparisons that have been made, because, as you cannot compare apples with pears, you cannot compare an adverse reaction of one case in 100 - which consists, however, of a mild fever, a redness, a pain as a reaction to the injection of the vaccine - with a case of encephalitis in 1,000 that you can have after you have contracted measles. Similarly, the vaccination obligation in the various countries cannot be compared without taking into account the precise conditions of each country. I also stress that things are not as they have been said, because in 14 European countries there is also an obligation of more than six vaccinations. Finally, I would like to say to Senator Bianconi that this is not a presidential Republic, but not even a senatorial Republic: it is Parliament that decides together what are the amendments that make a better measure or not. I also call on you to get out of certain patterns of conflict of interest, which, when there is one, must be tried and objective on a concrete basis. Sometimes, to want to be more realistic than the king, we find ourselves having great aberrations. Who has to deal with a subject other than one who has dealt with it, in the sense that he has studied, has the skills, has deepened and for which perhaps also has an international recognition? I would stress: once and for all that those who take care of it have all the titles, it certainly does not need the sponsorship neither of Parliament, nor of the pharmaceutical companies to make a career path, which perhaps arouses the jealousy of someone else who would like to be in his place or perhaps instead of the Minister of Health. It happens this way, unfortunately in life not everyone can have what they want. So, at this point, I can't call the gardener or the farmer under the house, who certainly never had anything to do with a pharmaceutical company, a study or a magazine that publishes articles; even if it doesn't have any continuity, it certainly won't be the right person to help me make a provision, because of vaccinations he won't know anything about. Let us get out of these schemes, because these are rigidities that prevent us from seeing what is obvious if we simply remove the mind from certain ideologies and prejudices and instead try to improve the measure on the substance. We have occasion, because we consider that, unfortunately, with all the mistakes that have been made in the management of this measure, not to go ahead today would be to endorse all the fake news, all the conspiracy that led to an obligation that we could avoid with greater responsibility on the part of everyone, also and especially of many doctors. [[Applause from the FL Group (Id-PL, PLI).]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-07-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-857.ana.u76	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote in dissent from my Group.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-07-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-857.ana.u77	I take note of that and give you the floor.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-07-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-857.ana.u78	PEPE (GAL (DI, GS, MPL, RI)). Mr President, as well as declaring my group's dissenting vote (I shall therefore vote in favour of the proposal not to move on to the articles), I would like to draw attention to clarity. There is talk of clarity, but sometimes it is not very clear. Here, the only clear thing I would like to put to my colleagues is that Poggiolini, the head of the single committee of the drug, received bribes, like Pasqualino Rossi, who strangely made a career in Europe and the trial went on prescription, like Pecorelli, who resigned for a clear conflict of interest and like Ricciardi, who apparently had 600,000 euros for his chair. Other certainties: Fanelli, who, remember, was part of the H1N1 crisis unit (avian) - always thanks, I assume, to the Minister - and who bought millions of vaccines, seems to have been arrested by association to criminals to promote pharmaceutical companies. The other certainty concerns Article 81 of the Constitution, which is quite flexible: it is used to say that there is an excess of expenditure, then we ask to make less vaccines and strangely it is called. Other certainties: we have only one measles epidemic, according to the Minister, but strangely, instead of making the vaccine only for measles, we make first twelve vaccines, then ten and now even become fourteen. In Naples we have a saying; I don't know if you remember Totò when he said: "I belong to CNF", the acronym that means cca nisciun is dumb. I see here a category of colleagues who absolutely want to be taken for fools, others who want clarity, others who obviously have other interests. I'll just say one thing and finish. Vaccines must be cleaned: vaccines even with very small amounts of mercury or aluminum must not be present. Clean vaccines should be given. If it can be done, it must be done. Those who do not, assume the moral and ethical responsibility for any adverse reactions and deaths that will surely be there: it is up to you and your conscience. [[Applause from Senator De Pin.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-07-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-857.ana.u79	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote in dissent from the Group.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-07-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-857.ana.u80	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-07-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-857.ana.u81	DE PIN (GAL (DI, GS, MPL, RI)). Mr President, I too am in favour of not going through the articles. Mrs. Minister, I ask you with Mom's heart to reconsider and take time. My party and myself are not opposed to vaccines: I have vaccinated. There are many of us who follow the law and want to vaccinate their children. But here we are not talking about how many atmospheres the wheel of a bicycle needs to move forward, but we are talking about human lives, Mrs. Minister. I ask with my heart: stop! Let's go all the way. You can't divide. Do you realize that you're dividing a nation? Is that what you want? Stop, have it screened, we'll take time. That's all I'm asking. I then pose a question of amleticism. What did Senator Buemi mean? He'll explain it to me. Do we have to vaccinate children because there are flows of people who are not vaccinated? I sensed this: explain it to me better, because maybe I didn't understand... [[Senator Buemi's comments.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-07-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-857.ana.u82	Senator De Pin, I invite you to address the Presidency and the Assembly and not Senator Buemi.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-07-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-857.ana.u83	DE PIN (GAL (DI, GS, MPL, RI)). Mr President, my colleague has said some very serious things between the lines, so there is absolutely a need for clarification. [[Senator Cardinal's comments.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-07-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-857.ana.u84	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-07-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-857.ana.u85	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-07-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-857.ana.u86	WHITE (PD). Mr President, I would just like to say that the PD Group will vote against the proposal not to go into the articles. The reasons and considerations are all in the speeches of the Group's colleagues and in the work of the rapporteur. [[Applause from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-07-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-857.ana.u87	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-07-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-857.ana.u88	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-07-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-857.ana.u89	Mr Calderoli (LN-Aut). We call for the vote to be taken by simultaneous ballot by electronic means.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-07-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-857.ana.u90	I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I would like to point out the nominal vote by simultaneous ballot of the proposal not to move on to the examination of the articles NP1, presented by Senator Cappelletti and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Ladies and gentlemen, in accordance with Rule 97 (1) of the Rules of Procedure, the Presidency states that amendments 3.27, 3.28, 3.29, 3.30, 3.31, 3.32, 3.33, 3.34, 3.47 and 5.15 cannot be accepted, as they are unrelated to the content of the decree-law, which contains urgent provisions on vaccination prevention. Amendments 1.12 and 1.13, which carry a legislative delegation in the absence of the requirements laid down in Article 76 of the Constitution, as well as proposals 1.16 and 1.17, are also inadmissible as they delegate the identification of compulsory vaccinations to a ministerial decree, contrary to the statutory reserve provided for in the second paragraph of Article 32 of the Constitution. With regard to the sub-amendments submitted, the Presidency declares that proposals 1,98 (text 2)/1, 1,127/1, 1,127/2, 1,127/4, 3.9.1, 3.9, 3.9, 5.9,1, 5.14/1 and 5.14/4 are inadmissible as they are intended to affect the text of the decree-law and not the amendment to which they relate. I note that the amendments refer to the articles of the decree-law to be converted. We shall proceed with the examination of the amendments and agendas relating to Article 1 of the Decree-Law, which I invite the authors to explain. D'ANNA (ALA-SCLP). Can you tell us what 20 amendments, according to the PD, need to be adopted? Aren't we gonna do this sooner? PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator d'Anna, spare us this ludopathy, please. [[Applause from the PD Group]] Save your jokes.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-07-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-857.ana.u91	Mr President, all the amendments tabled to Article 1 concern the body of the decree-law, i.e. the principle of mandatoryness. There are many amendments and it will be preferable to speak in an explanation of vote as they are put to the vote. I would point out that the body of each amendment tends to expunge the word "mandatory" and to replace it with the following: "recommendation" (Recommendation). In particular, I would like to draw attention to Amendment 1.9, for which I shall request the separate vote. Amendment 1.9 contains a very simple proposal to paragraph 3. Since the Minister has decided on the compulsory nature of vaccines and, therefore, the State is committed to providing vaccines for children, we believe that it is equally right to ensure that there is no economic interest behind them and that these vaccines are as much as possible and in the best possible way guaranteed and controlled by the State. Paragraph 3 therefore states that "In the interest of the national community and in order to ensure maximum transparency and impartiality, the production of the vaccines referred to in this Article is entrusted to the military pharmaceutical chemical plant based in Florence." [[Applause from the M5S Group]] Mr President, Minister, this forecast would also lead to the elimination of all existing fears, whether motivated or not. We believe that many are motivated, considering what the political class has been and what scandals have dotted the panorama of drug choices and who should provide what. Last but not least, I remember the scandal regarding the hepatitis C drug: we provide it at the cost of 20,000 euros, while in Egypt it costs 900 dollars. This generates a whole series of doubts in those parents who ask this Government and the country exclusively for assurances and to be heard and guaranteed. You moved like an elephant in the crystal and you produced a decree-law that will not bring any kind of improvement, but - indeed - poisoned the country and has not escaped any doubt. Mr. Minister, remember that you're forcing someone, without providing the right security. I remember that in the Chamber of Deputies Group 1 - Democratic and Progressive Movement submitted a question about Professor Ricciardi who, in a very scientific way, to our question to know if there was an emergency measles, replied: Of course it is. To the next question about why we were inserting mandatory 12 vaccines and if there was a chickenpox emergency, he replied that if you switch from zero cases to a case, for him there is a 100% increase and, therefore, we are in epidemic. This is the Higher Institute of Health to which we have entrusted the scientific competence to draw up the decree-law in question! [[Applause from the M5S Group]] Mr President, I reserve the right to speak on every amendment in the explanation of vote, in order to explain the inconsistency of the decree-law and the good intention that oppositions have to provide a suitable instrument for the country to restore the confidence that citizens, for justified reasons, do not have. [[Applause from the M5S Group and Senator Mussini.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-07-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-857.ana.u92	In view of the prospects that he is proposing, I would like to warn you that, because the time is high, some groups have already finished their time with the previous speeches. Therefore, I would try to speak on the most important points and on the most important amendments. I would also like to point out that, by illustrating, we are spending the time that could be used for the explanation of vote on the individual amendment. I just wanted to draw attention to this.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-07-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-857.ana.u93	Mr President, I wanted to make a few amendments. Are you telling me, though, that with the illustration I would take away time on explanations of vote on the amendments? PRESIDENT. - The debate is It must not be the Presidency that suggests your timing of intervention, Senator Arrigoni. Know, though, that you have run out of time. So, even briefly, it would perhaps be better to intervene on the most important amendments than to explain them all. That's what I'm saying for all the groups, of course. Mr President, I shall then reduce the number of amendments to be presented to Article 1. The first is sub-amendment 1,500/10, with which we call for the word "mandatory" to be replaced by "optional" words. This is a must for us, because the measure must not be coercive at all. The second amendment is 1.76, with which we call for the immunization procedure to be checked after vaccination. In fact, it is not automatic that immunization should occur when vaccination is carried out. The third amendment is 1.77, with which we call for the pre-vaccine analysis for each individual. The fourth amendment I would like to make, to which I call my fellow Members to pay attention, is 1.91. I am also referring here to what Senator Bianco said earlier about the waivers of the vaccination obligation. Paragraph 2 of Article 1 provides that, in the event of immunization as a result of natural illness, there is an exemption from the obligation of vaccination. Well, we want to supplement this paragraph by saying that it cannot be given to the individual who has immunization by natural disease a polyvalent vaccine and that, therefore, the other vaccines should be administered to this subject in single-dose formulation. The last two amendments are 1,109, where we call for the administrative penalty to be cancelled if the vaccination obligation is not complied with, and 1,111, with which we call for a drastic reduction (from 100 to 200 euros).
ParlaMint-IT_2017-07-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-857.ana.u94	Mr President, I shall confine myself to very few issues in order to avoid consuming time. A first set of amendments proposes mediation on the compulsory nature of vaccines. Our proposal (not only ours, but also others) is to maintain the obligation of the four historic compulsory vaccines, plus that on measles, on which there is a real concern. There are also amendments proposing vaccination of health workers, on which I said already this morning that there was a problem of coverage. However, I invited the Government (and I think we are working on this) to find the cover and it would be good if this were done. Thirdly, with regard to Haemophilus influenzae type b, as the Regions have requested, I propose that it should be explicitly written that vaccination should be given within five years of age.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-07-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-857.ana.u95	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-07-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-857.ana.u96	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-07-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-857.ana.u97	MUSSINI (Mixed). Mr President, I am speaking on the order of business to ask you for very quick information. She told us that our times are almost exhausted. You could tell us, please, exactly how long it was left, since it was also invoked by Senator Romani and many others. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. For his Group the time has already expired and is under two minutes. MUSSINI (Mixed). So, this great discussion and sharing on the topics of the decree-law will not be there. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Time has been used for explanations of vote. MUSSINI (Mixed). I asked him to know how we could move from here at the end of the vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-07-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-857.ana.u98	The remaining amendments and agendas are set out. I call on the rapporteur and the representative of the Government to comment on the amendments and agendas under discussion.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-07-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-857.ana.u99	Mr President, I am against Amendments 1.2 (I remember that Amendments 1.12 and 1.13 are inadmissible) to 1,1500/4, while the opinion is in favour of Amendment 1,1500/5.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-07-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-857.ana.u100	On Amendment 1,1500/5 there is an opinion contrary to the 5th Commission, in accordance with Article 81 of the Constitution.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-07-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-857.ana.u101	It didn't show up to us.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-07-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-857.ana.u102	Now let's check it out.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-07-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-857.ana.u103	Mr Manassero, rapporteur. All right, ma'am, we're gonna put him down for a test. I am against Amendments 1,1500/6 (on Amendments 1,1500/9 and 1,1500/27) to 1,1500/34. On the sub-amendment 1,1500/35 I make a call for withdrawal and propose the transformation into the agenda with the formula: "Recommend the Government to evaluate" (Translated with Google Translate) I am against Amendment 1,1500/36. On amendment 1,1500/37 I make a call for withdrawal and propose the change to the agenda, always with the formula: "I commit the Government to evaluate". I also object to amendment 1.1500/38. On amendment 1,1500/39 there is an opinion against the 5th Commission under Article 81 of the Constitution. I am in favour of amendments 1,1500/40 and 1,1500/42, while the opinion is against amendment 1,1500/41 and amendments 1,1500/43 to 1,1500/49. On Amendment 1,1500/50 I make a call for withdrawal, otherwise the opinion is against it. I am against amendments 1,1500/51 (amendments 1,1500/56 to 1,1500/58 have an opinion against the 5th Commission under Article 81 of the Constitution) to 1,1500/60. The opinion was in favour of amendment 1,1500. On Amendments Nos 1,301 and 1,302, I would like to make a request for withdrawal, otherwise the opinion would be against it. I am against amendments 1.303 (amendments 1.16 and 1.17 are inadmissible) and 1.18. On Amendment 1.19 I make a call for withdrawal, otherwise the opinion is against it. The opinion is opposed to Amendments 1.20 to 1.22. On Amendments 1.23 and 1,304 I make a call for withdrawal: the opinion would be in favour, but the text is considered to be absorbed by amendment 1,1500. I would also like to call for the withdrawal of amendment 1.24, because Amendment 3.48 of the same authors is considered preferable. The opinion is opposed to amendments 1.25 to 1.51. I call for the withdrawal of amendment 1.52, otherwise the opinion is against it. I also object to Amendments Nos 1,53 to 1,67. I call for the withdrawal of amendment 1.71, otherwise the opinion is against it. The opinion is also opposed to Amendments 1,305 to 1,78. I call for the withdrawal of Amendment No 1.79, otherwise the opinion is against it; the opinion is also against Amendments Nos 1.80 to 1.97. Amendment 1.98 (text 2)/1 has been declared inadmissible. I am in favour of Amendment No 1.98 (text 2) while calling for the withdrawal of Amendment No 1,310: the opinion would be in favour, but it is considered to be included in the previous amendment. The opinion was opposed to Amendments Nos 1,99 and 1,100. I call for the withdrawal of amendment 1,101 because it is considered that the subject is included in the further amendment 1.0.1. I am against Amendments Nos 1,311 to 1,109. I am in favour of amendment 1.110, provided that the following rewording is made: In paragraph 4, enter the following period: "In case of non-compliance with the vaccination obligation referred to in paragraph 1, parents exhibit parental responsibility, guardians and caregivers are summoned by the local health care company territorially competent for an interview in order to provide further information on vaccinations and to urge them to carry out". Consequently, in the second period of paragraph 4, the words "in the event of non-compliance with the vaccination obligation referred to in paragraph 1" shall be replaced by the following "in the event of failure to carry out the vaccinations referred to in paragraph 1" shall be replaced. I am against Amendments 1,313 and 1,111. I am in favour of Amendment No 1,112, provided that the last sentence, which reads as follows: This penalty may not be added to expenditure, except in the cases referred to in Article 27 of Law No 689 of 24 November 1981. I am against Amendments Nos 1,113 and 1,114. I call for the withdrawal of Amendment No 1,115, because the wording of Amendment No 1,116, which follows, is considered preferable. Therefore, a call for withdrawal or a favourable opinion, but the subsequent wording is preferable. I am in favour of Amendment No 1,116. I call for the withdrawal of Amendment No 1,117; it is a favourable opinion, but it is always considered that Amendment No 1,116 from the Commission is comprehensive. I am against Amendments Nos 1,118 to 1,125. I call for the provision of amendment 1,127 and its sub-amendments. I call for amendment 1,126 to be withdrawn, otherwise the opinion is against it. I am against Amendments Nos 1,128 to 1,134/1. I am in favour of Amendments Nos 1,134 and 1,135. I call for the withdrawal of amendments 1,138 to 1,148, because this is included in amendment 1,135 tabled by the Commission. I am against Amendments Nos 1,149 to 1,155. I call for the withdrawal of amendment 1,158, which was rejected by the 5th Commission pursuant to Article 81 of the Constitution. I am against Amendments 1,315, 1,156 and 1,157 (text 2)/1, while the opinion is in favour of Amendments 1,157 (text 2) and 1,159 (text 2). I am against Amendments Nos 1,160, 1,161 and 1,162. I give a favourable opinion on the agendas for G1,200 and G1,201. I am against the draft agenda. Invitation to withdraw the agenda G1.101. I am against the draft agenda. I call for the removal of the agenda G1.103 because the content of this agenda has been taken up by the text of a Commission amendment. I am in favour of the agenda. I call for the withdrawal of agenda G1,300, because in this case too an amendment has already been tabled which includes the subject dealt with in this agenda. I am against the draft agenda G1.105 and G.106, while the opinion is in favour of the agenda G1.107 if the following rewording is accepted: the first point of the proposal remains unchanged while we are calling for the deletion of the second and third points of the proposal. Otherwise, the opinion is against it. I am against Amendments 1.0.1 (text 3/1 and 1.0.1 (text 3/2). Amendment 1.0.1 (text 3/3) was rejected by the 5th Commission under Article 81 of the Constitution. The opinion would be in favour of amendment 1.0.1 (text 3) but I understand that the 5th Commission under Article 81 of the Constitution has given an opinion against it. PRESIDENT. - The debate is There is a rewording of this amendment which has been submitted to the 5th Commission. Mr Manassero, rapporteur. The new text of the amendment reads: After the article, add the following: "Art. 1-a (Application of vaccinations in pharmacy). 1. The Regions and the Autonomous Provinces of Trento and Bolzano, without new and increased burdens for public finance, may authorise the administration by doctors who have the right to use the collaboration of nurses or health assistants of vaccines referred to in Article 1 at pharmacies open to the public, in suitable areas from the point of view of sanitation. 2. Within sixty days of the entry into force of the law of conversion of this decree, with agreement between the State, the Regions and the Autonomous Provinces of Trento and Bolzano, are established the modalities for the implementation referred to in paragraph 1 also in relation to the profiles relative to the certification of the successful vaccination On Amendment 1.0.1500/1, there is an opinion against it expressed by the 5th Commission under Article 81 of the Constitution. The opinion was opposed to amendments 1.0.1500/2 and 1.0.1500/3. The 5th Commission also expressed its opposition under Article 81 of the Constitution to amendments 1.0.1500/4 to 1.0.1500/9. With regard to amendment 1.0.1500, given the contrary opinion of the Budget Commission under Article 81 of the Constitution, I withdraw it and turn it into an agenda. Finally, the opinion is opposed to amendments 1.0.2 to 1.0.7.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-07-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-857.ana.u104	Mr President, I agree with the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-07-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-857.ana.u105	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-07-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-857.ana.u106	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-07-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-857.ana.u107	ROMANI Paolo (FI-PdL XVII). Mr President, I am sorry that the Minister gave his assent to the rapporteur's opinion because, with regard to amendment 1,1500/5, which concerns unaccompanied minors, as far as I am aware, the Government had undertaken to find cover, so we think that the opinion should be favourable because we believe that the Government has found cover. On this point we would like to have a certainty. [[Ironic applause from Senator Gotor. Senator Petraglia's comments.]] Hundreds of thousands (LN-Aut). D'Anna, you were right! [[Ironic applause from the LN-Aut Group]] ROMANI Paolo (FI-PdL XVII). Of course, Hundreds, we're right to improve a measure. We are absolutely right and we continue to try to improve it. Hundreds of thousands (LN-Aut). Go sit over there and it's better. ROMANI Paolo (FI-PdL XVII). The second thing I wanted to say concerns the agenda - I am addressing the rapporteur - resulting from the transformation of the Commission's amendment 1.0.1500. I have a text on the agenda where it does not say 'to evaluate' but 'to commit the Government', which seems to me to be a very different statement. On this point too, I ask the Government's opinion. [[Brusio.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-07-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-857.ana.u108	Colleagues, please, this is a delicate moment. Say again, Senator? We said that on Amendment 1,1500/5 there was still clarification on the part of the rapporteur and the government. There was a favourable opinion of the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-07-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-857.ana.u109	ROMANI Paolo (FI-PdL XVII). Mr President, you, in my opinion, correctly (because the information came to you from the offices), said that there was no coverage under Article 81 of the Constitution. On this point there was a need for further study and it seemed to me that this should be done, at least from the information I had from the Budget Commission. Then there is the change in the agenda of the last amendment, the 1.0.1500, which has now been mentioned by the rapporteur; since there is no famous coverage concerning vaccination of health workers, we believe that it should be an amendment and not an agenda, and I also ask for the Government's opinion on this issue. I would therefore ask the Government, before giving its assent to the rapporteur's opinion, to pay attention. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I call on the rapporteur and the representative of the Government to comment on this.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-07-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-857.ana.u110	Mr President, just one clarification on Amendment 1,1500/5. Since the rapporteur's opinion was in favour and the Committee on Budgets' opinion had been rejected under Article 81 of the Constitution, I asked for the provision to carry out the necessary checks. With regard to the change of the amendment to the agenda, since I have not yet received a text, I have held a precautionary position: if there is a text on which there is agreement among all, it is okay with me.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-07-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-857.ana.u111	Mr President, as far as Amendment 1,1500/5 is concerned, we had no confidence in this contrary opinion under Article 81 of the Constitution. That is why my opinion was in agreement and I was in agreement with the idea of a provision for further consideration, because from the opinions we had previously received from the Budget Committee we had found nothing to prevent. Our opinion is therefore in favour. Among other things, I would remind you that it is a practice that we already carry out and the amendment is reinforcing in relation to this practice. As far as Amendment 1.0.1500 is concerned, it is true that we had reworded an amendment, not an agenda. [[Comments from the Groups Art.1-MDP and Mixed-SI-SEL.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-07-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-857.ana.u112	On the rewording of the amendment we would like some clarification, in order to understand what is the rewording and what is the amendment, so that we can usefully follow the opinions. [[Applause from Senator Lezzi.]] Mr Lezzi (M5S). Bravo!
ParlaMint-IT_2017-07-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-857.ana.u113	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-07-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-857.ana.u114	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-07-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-857.ana.u115	ROMANI Paolo (FI-PdL XVII). Mr President, the amendment is on page 97 of the list of amendments and is an amendment by the Commission. If I understood correctly, I understood that the rapporteur said that it must be turned into an agenda. I repeat that it must be retained as an amendment and it seems to me that the Government has now said that it is maintained as an amendment. That is amendment 1.0.1500.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-07-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-857.ana.u116	This is an amendment from the Commission and the rapporteur has considered, since there is an opinion contrary to Rule 81, to turn it into an agenda. The Government, which has just given its opinion, reiterated its compliance with the rapporteur's opinion. ROMANI Paolo (FI-PdL XVII). I repeat that the request to the Government is not to give assent to this amendment in relation to the rapporteur's proposal. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. You can repeat, but it doesn't change the government's position.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-07-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-857.ana.u117	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-07-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-857.ana.u118	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-07-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-857.ana.u119	DE BIASI (PD). Mr President, I understand that everything is very complicated and I ask my colleagues to have some consideration, because it is not easy to work under these conditions. We have put aside amendment 1,1500/5 because you told us that there is an opinion contrary to Article 81. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I did not say that, but the 5th Commission, in its opinion. DE BIASI (PD). Unfortunately, he did not give us the same opinion, so it is obviously not a problem that can be solved. [[Brusio.]] If we end up with the rodeo, maybe it's better.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-07-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-857.ana.u120	We are talking about amendment 1,1500/5.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-07-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-857.ana.u121	[[Brusio.]] I beg colleagues to be quiet. DE BIASI (PD). Mr President, I would ask, if possible, to put aside amendments 1,1500/5 and 1.0,1500.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-07-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-857.ana.u122	It therefore proposes to withdraw the rapporteur's request to turn amendment 1.0.1500 into an agenda and to put it aside together with amendment 1.1500/5. [[Applause from the PD Group]] Does the Government agree with this provision proposal? Mr LORENZIN, Minister for Health. Yes, Mr. President. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I therefore have the provision of amendments 1,1500/5 and 1.0,1500.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-07-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-857.ana.u123	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-07-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-857.ana.u124	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-07-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-857.ana.u125	WAR (Art. 1-MDP). Mr President, allow me, but I note a rather abnormal procedure and at the limit of acceptability, so that a single senator, although the Parent Company, asks the Government to review its opinion, on the basis of extra-parliamentary information, which we obviously enjoy and which we do not enjoy. [[Applause from the Art.1-MDP Group and Senator Calderoli]] Similarly, as I, the Holding Company, am kindly asking, as Senator De Biasi, who is not rapporteur, for the provision of all the amendments tabled by a Senator from my Group, who have had an opinion contrary to Rule 81, for the Government and the rapporteur to check that they can be covered. [[Applause from the Groups Art. 1-MDP, Misto SI-SEL and M5S and Senators Romani Maurizio and Mussini.]] I would not like to be discriminated against, Mr President, also because, possibly, we could have the technical reports that we have requested and have not obtained. If not, explain to me the reason for a different behavior. [[Applause from the Groups Art.1-MDP and Misto-SI-SEL and Senator Morra. Bursium]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-07-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-857.ana.u126	I would ask my fellow Members to be silent, otherwise I cannot take the call for action. In this regard, I ask the Secretary Senators and the Offices to help me.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-07-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-857.ana.u127	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-07-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-857.ana.u128	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-07-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-857.ana.u129	TAVERNA (M5S). Mr President, I agree with the request just made by my colleague, Mr Guerra, and I would like to ask for the provision of all the amendments which have been made in accordance with Article 81 of the Constitution. I would also like to make a personal request: if I could know which pharmacy you meet with Forza Italia in order to agree on what amendments or what agenda to vote on, I would like to participate. [[Applause from the M5S Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-07-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-857.ana.u130	Senator Taverna, we don't trigger controversy. He asked for the provision and we take note of it.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-07-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-857.ana.u131	TAVERNA (M5S). They are not polemics: he clearly said so. It has been clearly said in this House! They show us the pharmacy or the bar where they meet, because we would also like to agree our amendments, otherwise the opposition goes home and we leave here the PD with part of Forza Italia, which, since there is no more Verdini, has started again to act as a bank. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-07-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-857.ana.u132	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-07-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-857.ana.u133	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-07-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-857.ana.u134	COMAROLI (LN-Aut). Mr President, I am speaking justly to clarify amendment 1.0.1500: it is not that the Budget Commission did not give its opinion to the Health and Health Commission, but that Commission approved the amendment before the Budget Commission could express itself. [[Applause from the LN-Aut and M5S Groups]] Yesterday we gave our opinions to the Health and Health Commission, and we said that the amendment was discovered in accordance with Article 81. Mr President, a practice that is confusing is being established. To date, it has always been accepted that, in the event of an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution, the amendment could be put to the vote in this House, but there were no rewordings or provisions. [[Applause from Senator Marin]] Mr President, I really ask you to respect the Rules of Procedure and not the out-of-the-box agreements between Forza Italia and PD, which make no sense! [[Applause from the LN-Aut and M5S Groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-07-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-857.ana.u135	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-07-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-857.ana.u136	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-07-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-857.ana.u137	D'Ambrosio Lettieri (GAL (DI, GS, MPL, RI)). Mr President, if you agree to the request for provision, at this point put forward by several groups, since I am not sufficiently clear about the reasons and I would also like to have time to acquire the technical report, I would ask that my amendment 1.0.1 (text 3/3) be put aside. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator D'Ambrosio Lettieri, can you help us with the number of the file page? D'Ambrosio Lettieri (GAL (DI, GS, MPL, RI)). Yes, Mr. President. It concerns page 94 and amendment 1.0.1 (text 3)/3.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-07-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-857.ana.u138	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-07-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-857.ana.u139	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-07-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-857.ana.u140	D'ANNA (ALA-SCLP). Mr President, I will calm you down. I have nothing to put aside. When I made that joke earlier, she turned to me and invited me not to have ludopathies. Now the game would be easy to ask if this seems serious to you. However, I am abstaining from doing so, because I come from a political militancy and I know that agreements between political forces are everyday matters. I am not a moralist and I do not say to Senator Romani, who is of the opposition, that, if he wants to make agreements with Zanda, he must make them in the sunlight, because otherwise there is another majority. If an agreement is made between the major opposition party and the government party, no one is scandalized. I made that line, inviting us to tell us what the 20 amendments they agreed on. I believe that those of the Forza Italia Group are the first-signed amendments by Senator Rizzotti. I'm glad that Dr. Rizzotti, who is capable, has achieved a result. However, the other amendments are not children of a lesser God. Therefore, or set aside everything - Minister Lorenzin, now engaged on the phone, does not lack the nerve, nor the inventiveness to invent the provision of something else - and we meet again around 21 o'clock in the night sitting... PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator D'Anna, what's your request? D'ANNA (ALA-SCLP). The subject is so pedisseque to follow and so important that we have to do the night session. And you know why? Allow me a digression. When I was mayor, an opposition counselor made me vote, article by article, all the budget of the municipality. At 4:00 a.m., I turned to my opponent and asked him what he thought he was doing. The Neapolitan answer was: "Nothing." That's what I could do to you, and that's what I did to you.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-07-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-857.ana.u141	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-07-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-857.ana.u142	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-07-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-857.ana.u143	DE PETRIS (Misto-SI-SEL). Mr President, since you are chairing this House, you must agree that we are facing some strange procedures. We have heard of the contrary opinion under Article 81 of the Constitution as if it were not known - I am surprised by the Minister - that the Budget Commission is often expressing such an opinion. This means that, if that request is accepted, other amendments which have received an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution must also be put aside in order to be reviewed and reviewed. Let me add something else, Mr President. I would like to point out here in a preventive way - and I would like to address the President of the Budget Committee - that, since the amendment on pharmacies has risen, it is not enough to write without new or greater burdens on public finances to bypass the judgment of the Budget Commission. For Christ's sake, agreements are made and points of understanding are reached, but it must be clear that we will not tolerate the use of Article 81 of the Constitution once again to create children and stepchildren. Then, if Senator Romani claims that the pact is respected, this House assumes the responsibility - whoever wants to take it - to vote on it with the opinion of the 5th Commission under Rule 81. Then they'll pay in person, as it should be. PRESIDENT. - The debate is Colleagues, I would propose that we put the whole sitting aside, as it is already 7:55 p.m., and move on to the speeches at the end of the sitting.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-07-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-857.ana.u144	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-07-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-857.ana.u145	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-07-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-857.ana.u146	[[Senator Marton's comments.]] Mr Finocchiaro, Minister for Relations with Parliament. I repeat that I am not putting the vote of confidence, but I am trying to introduce a word of calmness into the debate. Mr President, I understand the perplexities and - I say this in many quotes - also the legitimate suspicions of colleagues. However, I would like to say that we are talking here about amendments which were originally from the Commission. So it is with regard to amendment 1,1500 that it has, of course, collected, being an amendment of the Commission, the feeling of a large part of the Commission itself with respect to an address, that of the vaccination of all health workers and school workers, which responds to a need for rationality, which I well understand could have been shared by colleagues from different parliamentary groups. The same applies to the amendment concerning the reduction of the financial penalties originally provided for in the Decree-Law. Therefore, the two issues on which the Budget Commission has had to - and rightly so, because there is no provision for financial cover and there is no provision for expenditure on less revenue - express its opinion in accordance with Article 81 concerning two amendments which do not belong to one political side rather than to the other, but which are the result of an assessment which has been so wide as to make these amendments by the Commission. [[Comments from the M5S Group.]] After that, of course, colleagues can make a legitimate request to revisit the assessments of Rule 81, but with the same luck, in the absence of a possible quantification as regards the amendments of both the Commission and individual Members or groups of Members. All this, of course, does not mean that we cannot respond to these needs otherwise. And I am referring not only to the agenda instrument, which also has its full and complete legitimacy, but also to the fact that some of these issues, such as the compulsory vaccination of unaccompanied minors, are actually resolved. The deepening that we conducted this morning together with the Minister has established that all those who disembark from us are subjected to triage and to the verification of the vaccinations that they have carried out on the basis of blood tests and are therefore vaccinated. This concerns both adults and minors. And I say that because it is information that we have acquired, deepening a raised topic. [[Senator Gaetti's comments.]] Senator Gaetti, I'll tell you what I'm finding out about a deepening that I've witnessed personally and I beg you not to doubt my good faith. I never come to tell the House things about which I am not personally aware. And that's for my life size. [[Applause from the PD Group]] Here there has been no privileged treatment for a political party, which - as Senator D'Anna said - could also be part of a perfectly legitimate framework of agreements and financial issues are serious and concern issues dealt with and accepted by the Commission. As far as I am concerned - but the political responsibility of the measure is not mine - everything will be done to meet widely shared needs and which cannot in the state be assisted by financial cover and, therefore, by a favourable opinion under Article 81 of the Constitution [[Applause from Senator Puppato.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-07-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-857.ana.u147	I shall refer the following to another session of the draft law.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-07-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-857.ana.u148	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-07-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-857.ana.u149	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-07-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-857.ana.u150	BULGARRELLI (M5S). Mr President, I believe that the rapporteur and the representative of the Government must respond to the requests for provision made by all the groups. Or do they answer in the morning? PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. We have postponed the continuation of the debate until tomorrow. BULGARRELLI (M5S). We would like to have at least one response to the requests for provision. They can do it tonight or tomorrow morning. The important thing is that they give it. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. It's 8:00 p.m. and we need to take the session down. BULGARRELLI (M5S). The important thing is that then tomorrow morning you do not say that they no longer give an answer, because the demands have been made. That's it. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-07-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-857.ana.u151	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-07-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-857.ana.u152	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-07-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-857.ana.u153	CERONI (FI-PdL XVII). Mr President, over the past year... [[Senator Scilipoti Isgrò points out that he wants to intervene.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-07-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-857.ana.u154	Tomorrow morning, Senator Scilipoti Isgrò. That of the Minister for relations with Parliament was only a clarification, and the debate was not reopened at all. [[Comments of Senator Scilipoti Isgrò]] Please, Senator Ceroni.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-07-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-857.ana.u155	Mr President, over the last year, this House has dealt with the problems of the earthquake on a number of occasions. We had to pass four decree-laws and, therefore, the Assembly is perfectly aware of the calamity that has affected central Italy. Along with the images and the work done by the media, Italians, through the solidarity SMS, donated something like 32 million euros. Of these 32 million, 17.5 million were allocated to the Marche Region. Today, some media have made known the will of the Marche Region of how to allocate the resources that generous citizens have donated. We learn that, among the interventions to be carried out, about half of the resources (€5.5 million) will be spent to realize a bike path from Lake Fiastra to Sarnano and even, for the recovery of the sweaty cave of Acquasanta Terme, will be used 3 million euros. I think the Marche Region has literally gone crazy. These are resources that the citizens had donated at the time of the earthquake to meet the first needs and to put public authorities in a position to overcome a disaster that was truly dramatic. It cannot be thought that such resources can be used in such an improper way. I do not believe that in Italy there is only one citizen who gives two euros on the occasion of a disaster to build a bike path or to secure a cave like that sweaty of the Municipality of Acquasanta Terme. I would like to hope that the government will intervene on this, make it clear and prevent such misuse of public money.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-07-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-857.ana.u156	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-07-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-857.ana.u157	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-07-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-857.ana.u158	Mr Capelletti (M5S). Mr President, I really wanted to speak during the sitting of this House, because I wanted to make a communication that I thought was important and urgent and would not have taken more than thirty seconds to our work. Surely the intention was not to interrupt the work, but to give notice of a fact that I think is sufficiently serious: a new serious threat, by a boss of the Mafia of the foreground, to a senator of the Republic, of which we have come to know today through press news. I am talking about the Gravian boss who would have said - according to what is deduced from the interceptions - that the senator in question is a dangerous person. He basically gets mad at Senator Giarrusso because he would be guilty of not having facilitated the early release of the Mafia prisoners under Article 41-a. I'm gonna stop right here. I wanted to represent my personal solidarity and the entire 5 Star Movement Group that I represent to my colleague, who is the victim of such a serious mafia threat. And then I wanted to stigmatize the fact that such a threat would come to light by reading a press article and not be informed by those who are members of the public's security. I believe that this must really be stigmatized. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-07-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-857.ana.u159	The documents have been filed and made public in a trial. In any case, we take note of this and give solidarity to Senator Giarrusso.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-07-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-857.ana.u160	The motions, questions and questions received by the Presidency will be published in Annex B to today's report.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-07-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-857.ana.u161	The Senate will meet again tomorrow, Thursday 13 July, in two public sessions, the first at 9.30 a.m. and the second at 16 a.m., with the following agenda: (See agenda) The sitting was closed at 20.07.
