ParlaMint-IT_2017-02-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-760.ana.u1	The sitting was opened at 11 a.m. The Minutes shall be read. Mr Petraglia, Secretary, read the Minutes of the afternoon sitting on 8 February.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-02-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-760.ana.u2	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-02-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-760.ana.u3	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-02-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-760.ana.u4	MARTELLI (M5S). Mr President, I would like to ask for the vote on the Minutes, subject to a quorum check. Verification of quorum
ParlaMint-IT_2017-02-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-760.ana.u5	I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators, by electronic procedure. (The request is supported). I therefore call on the senators to make their presence known by electronic means. (Follows the quorum check.) The Senate has a quorum. Resumption of the debate on the Minutes I put the Minutes to the vote. It's approved.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-02-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-760.ana.u6	The list of senators on leave and absent on assignment received from the Senate, as well as further communications to the Assembly, will be published in Annex B to today's Minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-02-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-760.ana.u7	I would warn you that qualified votes can be taken in the course of today's sitting by electronic means. Therefore, from this moment the period of 20 minutes from the notice provided for in Article 119, paragraph 1, of the Regulation (at 11.05).
ParlaMint-IT_2017-02-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-760.ana.u8	The next item is the debate on motions 1-00600, tabled by Senator Rizzotti and other senators, 1-00638, tabled by Senator D'Ambrosio Lettieri and other senators, 1-00684, tabled by Senator Gaetti and other senators, 1-00713, presented by Senator Dirindin and other senators, and 1-00719, presented by Senator Mazzoni and other senators, on female cancers. I warn my fellow Members who have agreed, in order to conclude the examination and vote on the motions before us, to limit the speaking time. With a little tolerance, I ask you to respect the limits. I call Senator Rizzotti to explain motion No 600. [[Brusio.]] I call on the senators who are not interested in the subject of sitting outside the Chamber to talk in order to allow Senator Rizzotti to speak in a normal tone of voice.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-02-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-760.ana.u9	Madam President, I would like to thank the Presidency for the schedule of the motion of which I am first a signatory, whose approval is very much awaited by the oncology scientific world and patient associations. Today 87 percent of women affected by breast cancer survive through early diagnosis and timely therapies. In fifteen years, in our country, it has turned out an increase of 27 percent of breast cancer in under 50 and screening in women from fifty to sixty-nine years has reduced mortality by 40 percent. Early diagnosis of this disease means that survival and healing can reach 98 percent, but remember that breast cancer remains the first cause of death among women between the ages of forty and fifty. It is necessary to lower the age from which our National Health System provides free mammography (from forty-five to fifty years), although there is always considerable discrepancy in mammographic access between the North, the Centre and the South of the country. On the contrary, there is currently an increase in discrepancies due to the economic crisis that has affected our territory, which means that women give up their treatment by not being able to pay the ticket for an examination necessary for their lives. However, there is scientific evidence that many women at high risk for important family history or bearers of the genetic mutation BRCA1 or BRCA2 should start mammographic checks at the age of 25, and that is the reason for my motion. Given that the mutation of BRCA1 and BRCA2 genes increases the risk of breast and ovaries cancer respectively, women carrying mutations in these genes have a high probability (about 60 percent) of developing breast cancer throughout their lives. Mutations of these genes also give an estimated risk of ovarian cancer in the range of 40 percent for BRCA1 and 20 percent for BRCA2. It is estimated that the mutated forms are present in about 1-5 women in 10,000, and this variability depends on populations with different prevalence. In the presence of mutations, different strategies of prophylaxis and treatment are foreseen: preventive mastectomy, tight screening... [[Brusio.]] I'd like the male colleagues who don't care about the subject to be quiet.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-02-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-760.ana.u10	You're absolutely right. I would like to ask Members to allow us to speak and to respect the subject we are debating, even if it does not concern them directly. But maybe in the family maybe, and it's education anyway. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. We need to get over it. Continue senator.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-02-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-760.ana.u11	Women with positive BRCA-1 and BRCA-2 must undergo mammography, ultrasound and MRI every year from the age of thirty and, from the age of forty, to an annual mammogram and magnetic resonance, interspersed with an ultrasound every six months; to the blockage of estrogens through the use of antiestrogenic drugs, which reduce the individual risk, and to the removal of ovaries, obtaining an effect similar to that of antiestrogenic drugs. Let us remember, however, that this practice, if it eliminates the risk of ovarian cancer, does not do so with that of the breast. And let us also bear in mind the age at which these women should be subjected to such intervention, which would obviously block their possibility of maternity. You can also change your lifestyle: a high-risk woman should adapt them to the recommendations, avoiding alcohol, eating in a balanced way, reducing her weight if she is overweight, and so on. The screening strategy for BRCA-1 and BRCA-2 is very useful for halving the risk of positive women, but it is particularly expensive due to shared tickets at the expense of instrumental examinations and laboratory techniques. In recent years patient associations have carried out awareness-raising campaigns within regional institutions to allow an exemption from positive women's ticket to BRCA-1 and BRCA-2 tests. The campaign has had a positive outcome in two different regions: Emilia-Romagna, in its resolution n. 220 of 2011, outlined a complex programme for the prevention and surveillance of the heredo-family risk of breast cancer, adopting specific and progressive guidelines that lead to the identification of women at risk and the implementation of specific strategies including that of exempting from the ticket; Lombardy, with the resolution of exemption approved on 4 August 2015, has provided, according to Legislative Decree n. 124 of 1998, that are excluded from the system of participation at cost the services of instrumental diagnostics and laboratory and other specialized assistance included in organized programs of early diagnosis and collective prevention carried out in implementation of the national health plan and regional health plans. A further resolution of 2014 provides for measures to improve equity and performance in favour of citizens, including exemption from partnership for certain categories of patients, especially if carrying genetic mutations that give a high risk of cancer development and therefore require intensive monitoring. In this sense, the types of services, the way in which they are provided, as well as the categories of stakeholders, will be defined. In concrete terms, the resolutions of Lombardy and Emilia-Romagna take note of the risk of developing breast and/or ovary cancer by women carrying the genetic mutations in question and underline the need to include these subjects in specific surveillance programmes aimed at early diagnosis and prevention of the onset of such cancer. In view of the fact that two other regions, Veneto and Piedmont, are currently considering using the same exemption and prevention instruments, there is still a situation of grave injustice in all the other Italian regions, where these preventive instruments are not feasible due to the number of examinations to be carried out and the high costs of sharing. We therefore call for a commitment from the Government - of which I would like the attention - to commit and allocate economic resources and to take all measures, including through agreements within the State-Regions Conference, in order to ensure uniformity of treatment throughout the national territory for the exemption from the ticket, already reserved by some regions, to women carrying pathogenic mutations of BRCA-1 and BRCA2 genes, ensuring respect for the right to health, enshrined in Article 32 of the Constitution, and also the right to life. [[Applause from the FI-PdL XVII and CoR Groups]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-02-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-760.ana.u12	I call Senator D'Ambrosio Lettieri to explain motion 638.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-02-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-760.ana.u13	I also appeal to him for respect for the times.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-02-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-760.ana.u14	Madam President, Mr Faraone, ladies and gentlemen, it is now known that the diagnosis of cancer is no longer an unappellable sentence that puts before the sick the imminent spectre of the end of life. It's not like that anymore, and it hasn't been for a long time. Life styles, innovative drugs with an increasing selective power of action, prevention, with more and more timely and effective screening, early diagnosis activity have created the conditions to reverse the epidemiological picture of oncologic diseases, thus determining a less infavourable destiny, a more reassuring destiny, to the point that today it is said that one dies no longer with the tumor, but of tumor, to mean that neoplastic pathology, even if diagnosed, no longer represents the cause of death. In fact, there are 2.4 million cancer patients in Italy. Of these, one and a half million (therefore about 60 percent) are so called long survivors, in the sense that they live more than five years compared to the date of diagnosis. And 27 percent (i.e. 650,000 people) live with a life expectancy that is considered equal to that of those who have never had this disease. However, there are some critical issues, many critical issues, which ask - as is well known - not only the political decision-maker but the entire scientific community. The LILT puts one on the table, which is the subject of the motion which I offer, with some considerations, to the House's assessment. LILT says to pay attention, because breast cancer is the big killer of women: 14 percent of cancers in general and 29 percent of cancers for women. This is a particularly alarming picture, especially in view of the trend of increasing: 15% of all general cancer data and 30% of cancer among young women under the age of 50. Why do you get sicker? Certainly, the life expectancy that increases represents a motivation, but it is not the only one, because it would not justify the fact that you get sick, even more, in the young age. There are other reasons. Smoking, obesity, diabetes, sedentaryness, hormonal dysfunction and hypertension are all risk factors. And in the face of such a picture, what can be done, what must the political decision-maker do, what can the government do? Is there anything you can do? Yes: you can do something, you can do more and you can do better. On which side? On the slopes of prevention, early diagnosis and care paths, taking into account also the need, highlighted several times, to create greater homogeneity in the field of welfare levels throughout the territory. Madam President, since I am not going to speak in general debate, I would ask you to allow me a few more minutes, because I would like to absorb the five minutes of the general debate allocated to my Group with this speech. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. The Presidency shall authorise it accordingly. D'Ambrosio Lettieri (CoR). Thank you, Madam President. On the basis of the national guidance document for the definition of specific organizational and welfare modalities of the network of senology centres, approved by the State-Regions Conference in 2014, it is necessary to adapt to certain specific requirements, which I summarize and which are the subject of my act of request for commitment to the Government. It is necessary to activate the breast units, which should have the value of a sure and safe reference where to land women in order to carry out the paths of diagnosis and treatment. In fact, the number of breast units, currently operating throughout Italy, is significantly lower than the number of centers that can be activated according to the requirements of the current European directives. Again. Initiatives must be put in place to reduce the age at which screening can be carried out. Today we start at the age of fifty, but I believe that we need to promote initiatives aimed at including women from the age of twenty-five in the national health system screening programmes, with ultrasound monitoring activities, and women of older age, i.e. those over forty, with the use of mammography. Activities should be put in place to enhance prevention and diagnosis initiatives through information campaigns and to encourage the technique of self-expalpation from second grade secondary schools, in order to promote self-diagnosis awareness as an introductory element of a path that can allow early diagnosis. They are fairly simple demands that do not affect costs. With regard to costs, I conclude by pointing out that in assessing the overall costs it is necessary to consider that very often the sums allocated to the prevention and enhancement of early diagnosis activities are lower than the costs that would result from the increase in the pathologies that would occur in the absence of such activities, without, of course, considering the increase in the number of people who lose their lives. Therefore, I entrust my request to the Government and am convinced that I get attention and sharing. [[Applause from the CoR Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-02-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-760.ana.u15	I call Senator Gaetti to explain motion 684.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-02-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-760.ana.u16	Madam President, I would like to make a comparative presentation of the five motions that we are going to discuss today, rather than presenting the motion that sees me as the first signatory, because they essentially present the same setlist and I would therefore like to highlight the differences between them. All motions begin with an important premise, namely the number of breast cancers, which is quite important in Italy: about 50,000 new cases per year. Mr D'Ambrosio Lettieri's motion reports data processed by LILT instead of more official data such as those of AIRTUM or ISTAT. They all point out, however, that there is no real prevention. Of course, lifestyles are extremely important, but they are mainly of interest to menopause women, for whom hormonal speech is an important game. In such cases it can actually affect the diet, reducing the metabolism of some hormones and consequently the kinetic power of the cells. And this is demonstrated above all by the studies of Professor Berrino, the famous Diana studies, which arrived at the fifth implementation, epidemiological studies that involved several thousands of people. Here I would also like to stigmatize that if the citizen can choose what to eat, he cannot do the same for the air he breathes and not even for the water of the aqueduct he drinks. On these elements it is the majority that has the task to change the laws and to influence, while we have seen - for example - how on the limits of the potability of the water continue to increase the reference levels, as for the PSAs of the Veneto Region. Therefore, the only great remedy is the early analysis, which can be activated in several ways, first of all by increasing the consciousness of women through - we have heard - the autopalpation and, above all, the careful observation of the breast, especially in the post menstrual period. Therefore, variations and changes in the shape and texture of the nipple and orange peel should be carefully and taught, including by activating screenings. A separate speech - as Senator Rizzotti has well explained - deserves early analysis for that small slice of women carrying genetic mutations, which have a very high chance (around 50 percent) to develop cancer. Senator Rizzotti's first-signed motion rightly calls for a careful protocol to be activated on this group of people, but without explaining how to select it. In fact, if mass screening is needed to select, then we do not agree at all, because the costs would be greater than the benefits. I remember that in Italy the screenings are already activated for women aged between fifty and sixty-nine years, and we have heard that some Regions have expanded the range also at the age between forty-five and seventy-five, thus creating a great variability of percentage between Region and Region. On the invitation to women, in some regions we reach 100%, while in others we reach 50%; on the accession of women, in some regions we reach almost 50%. On this point the various motions give different recipes. The 5 Star Movement believes that the professional future of directors-general must be put at stake, trying to give an economic incentive to those who submit to screening, also because in this way they will achieve savings in terms of costs. This is a very innovative vision of screening. We absolutely do not agree with Mr D'Ambrosio Lettieri's motion, where it provides for the extension of screening to women under the age of twenty-five, even if with non-radiological, but ultrasound and señological examination. As anatomopathologist I made hundreds of agoaspirates of all kinds (also microbiopsies) and I know the difficulty of working on the breast of a young woman, who has a different hormonal consistency and changes continuously depending on the cycle. All the independent scientific work that has assessed this aspect believes that it is not a road currently viable, except of course for a narrow category of people, that is - as we have seen before - those who have genetic mutations or a hormonal and metabolic damage of a certain type. We should select this sub-group, but selection is only possible when screening works optimally and - as we have seen - this is not the case in all regions. The other point that almost all motions take into account concerns the breast units, i.e. the centres that are responsible for following women. I would like to remind you that in 2012 the 45,413 recorded interventions were made in 593 structures, which are far too many, as the quality standards require a surgeon to do at least 150 surgeries per year. We agree, therefore, in the concentration of interventions (and, to follow, chemoterapies and so on) in limited centers, which must be put in operation of a network of interventions, not being able to concentrate everything in a few hospitals when in the peripheral centers there are new and avant-garde hospitals, also from the structural point of view. We believe - for example - that the first three days of the week a team should be able to work in a hospital and, in the other three days, in another one that is 30 or 40 kilometers away, in order to avoid women being forced to go tens of kilometers to the centers where they are better treated in the disease, but certainly not from the human point of view (I refer to the territory and the support staff). I ask that this aspect be taken into account, because there is, yes, physical illness in women, but also the psychological element. As I conclude, I would like to focus on the other aspect raised by the motions under discussion, namely research. Of course, research must be done not only to improve new therapies and, therefore, not only in the scientific field, but also to increase social consciousness. Research must therefore be carried out to ensure that screenings are better structured, involve basic doctors and create a general culture to encourage women to undergo them, as they are fundamental to their health. More than the presentation of the motion, I wanted to exalt the differences in order to allow those who listen to us to grasp the various differences. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-02-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-760.ana.u17	We greet the students and teachers of the Institute including Civitella San Paolo in Torrita Tiberina, in the province of Rome, who are attending our works. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-02-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-760.ana.u18	I call Senator Dirindin to explain motion No 713.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-02-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-760.ana.u19	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, representatives of the Government have already been told by those who have preceded me how important breast cancer is. Unfortunately, for women it is the most frequent cancer, so much so that it represents 29 percent of all female cancers. In recent decades there has been a constant reduction in mortality, although accompanied by a constant increase in the frequency of diagnosis. And this is the result of the increasing spread of early diagnosis, which has allowed to increase the number of cancers identified at the early stages of development, when treatment is more likely to succeed, to be more effective and less invasive. The cancer screening programmes, and in particular women's ones, are the most important organized public health intervention that our country, together with other Western countries, has put on the field for about twenty years now. It is a programme that involves a very complex process, which acts on an asymptomatic population that is expressly invited to undergo tests. The latest data tell us that there are 13 million women invited by these programmes and that 6 million tests have been carried out annually in recent years in order to detect this disease early. For a woman it is worth having mammographic screening because - on the one hand - it reduces the risk of dying of breast cancer and - on the other hand - it has absolutely acceptable costs in terms of overdiagnosis and false positives. And I say this because it is extremely important to make an analysis of the benefits and risks by having - as we know - in diagnostic investigations risk aspects that must be carefully assessed in relation to the benefits they entail. In Italy screening programmes of recent decades have been able to create an efficient and good quality infrastructure. And this is extremely important because, despite the differences I will mention, access to the system of diagnosis and treatment for breast cancer has been organized according to national and then regional indications in an extremely timely way, giving rise to a network of structures that put in place the best, probably, regarding the secondary prevention of our health system. The indicators used to assess the operation of these programmes at national level and in the different regions demonstrate this - and I certainly do not say so. The indicators comply with all the reference standards set out in the scientific literature - we are certainly close to those of the countries of Western Europe with which we are used to confront - and confirm the overall good performance of the activity of screening programmes carried out in Italy. The indicators are many - it is a very defined process on the basis of scientific indications - and concern both the adherence to the invitation, which for Italy is around 55% of the population invited, both the relationship between benign and malignant biopsies (another important indicator), the rate of identification of invasive tumors (the very small ones), and, finally, the percentage of surgical treatments. The problem is, in fact, not only to identify the disease early, but to ensure, after detection, the most appropriate treatment for the patient. There are certainly improvements to be made, and that is why we are discussing three requests in our motion, to which we are calling for the commitment of the Government. The first request is an organizational one: to promote the creation of an efficient and extensive network of centres integrated with organized screenings. This is extremely important because even in situations where the system does not work at its best, it is necessary to ensure maximum quality and to ensure that senology centres are equipped with systems of monitoring and production of quality indicators similar to those traditionally used by the screening programmes organized. The second request we address to the Government concerns the serious problem of interregional differences in access to screening programmes. I would remind you, for example, that the rate of women's participation in the invitation is 63% in the North and 36% in the South. Therefore, there are great differences between the different regions, and this not only causes the lack of early recognition of the problem, but above all, in some cases, leads to spontaneous use of tests that - on the one hand - cost and - on the other - are provided without the scientific evidence that must be there. The third and final request we make to the Government is about innovation. In times when scientific progress and knowledge tend to be more and more frequent, it is important that there is also innovation in this area. As has already been said in other cases, we believe that, just as some regions have already experienced screening programmes in favour of women aged 45 to 49 years, for which there is scientific evidence of reasonableness compared to the proposal for an organized screening, the Government must commit itself to putting specific actions in place so that the programmes are put in place not only in the three regions in which they have been developed for a few years now, but also in the others. We believe that other extensions do not make sense and not because they cost - it would be serious if we limited ourselves to this aspect - but because there is no scientific evidence that the benefit is sufficient to compensate for the risk. That is why we confine ourselves to such a request. [[Applause from the PD Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-02-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-760.ana.u20	I call Senator Gambaro to explain motion No 719.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-02-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-760.ana.u21	Madam President, of course we share what has already been said by colleagues from the other groups and we ask the Government to commit itself to some actions: firstly, to strengthen screening programmes in all the Italian regions, noting that the areas of Southern Italy - as has already been said - have lower rates of participation in the programmes, but also a lower efficiency of the programmes. We call on the Government to activate the breast units, i.e. the European recommendations to be followed by the senology centres throughout the national territory. Thirdly, we commit the Government to enhancing the monitoring of regional data in order to improve its efficiency; to promoting interventions aimed at raising women's awareness at different levels, from schools with targeted programmes for girls, to the involvement of family doctors, to effective media campaigns. We call on the Government to set up ad hoc funding, managed by specific calls, which will involve the evaluation of projects by renowned auditors in the sector at international level. Moreover, we ask the Government to intervene, with every appropriate initiative, so that by the year 2017 until activated in all the Regions the centers of senology, in compliance with the guidelines referred to in the document of national direction for the definition of specific organizational and welfare modalities of the network of the centers of senology. Finally, we call for the Government's commitment to promote the creation of translational laboratories and to spread the creation of bioinformatics units throughout the territory. [[Applause from Senators D'Ambrosio Lettieri and Fucksia.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-02-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-760.ana.u22	I declare the debate open. Senator Fucksia is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-02-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-760.ana.u23	Madam President, many things that are acceptable have already been said and I agree in particular with the discrimination referred to by Senator Dirindin regarding the risk-benefit issue and the intervention of Senator Gaetti as a whole. We note that currently the strategy used for breast cancer control, based on the combination of screening for early disease diagnosis and increasingly personalised cancer treatments, has provided undeniable positive results, which have resulted in a progressive increase in the survival of patients five years after diagnosis (currently more than 80%). However, breast cancer continues to be the biggest cause of mortality among women under the age of 75, as, paradoxically, there has been a gradual increase in new cases of disease during the same period, with an increasing problem of economic sustainability linked to the increasing cost of treatment. In practice, out of 48,000 new cases each year of sick people, 11,000 are still dying women. This trend in case growth makes us think. To make a comparison, lung cancer, which is the first cause of death for cancer, despite the fact that for decades now nothing new has been done regarding its early screening and therapy, has recorded a decrease in cases related to life habits, namely the reduction of smoking, especially as regards the male. Breast cancer, on the other hand, continues to be the biggest cause of women's mortality. As demonstrated by a recent study carried out in Bologna by the association Gli Onconauti, in collaboration with ASL in Bologna, of 1,400 women operated in the years 2011-2012, at least 40 percent of patients "healed" continue to be symptomatic due to the side effects of therapies and psychological disorders; this also twelve months after the end of treatments, with great difficulties of job reintegration, in family and relational life. For this reason, I feel like adding to the commitments highlighted in the various motions the need to implement a change of strategy. Early diagnosis and cancer treatment should be combined, upstream, in the primary prevention phase, with health promotion pathways that reduce the number of people who get sick each year by 30-40 per cent, and, downstream, holistic rehabilitation courses to facilitate work and social reintegration. In this sense, the experience of the association Gli Onconauti (already present in Emilia-Romagna, Lazio, Sicily and gradually expanding), which bases its paths of health promotion and integrated oncology rehabilitation on the association between practice of mind-body techniques, psychological support and improvement of lifestyle. I also appreciated the fact that some guidelines promoted by Europa Donna Italia, belonging to the European coalition Europa Donna, a movement born in 1994 from an idea by Professor Umberto Veronesi, today present in 47 countries and representing over 80 associations. The suggestions have been received both at the Ministry of Health level, both in some previous motions, and in the motions illustrated today. So the coverage of screening programmes, the multidisciplinary senology centers, the quality of mammograms, the appropriateness of therapies and guarantees and to receive the best care everywhere, are certainly aspects to be reviewed, but - let me say - let's review them from a more global perspective, that is, prevention. Since the agenda for today's sitting is the debate on motions on women's cancers, it makes me a species that we only talk about breast cancers, even if they are the most important. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Please conclude, Senator Fucksia. FUCKSIA (Mixed). In this case, however, it would be appropriate - even if I do not like these speeches very much - to review everything that is related to gender evidence as a determinant variable for health both in research and in the treatment, management and recovery of the patient. It is a view that makes the patient no longer "neutral" but, precisely, characterized by many determinants whose analysis makes a difference in the result. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator Anitori is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-02-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-760.ana.u24	Dear President, ladies and gentlemen, the data that emerged at the World Congress of the American Cancer Society, which took place in Paris at the end of 2016, forecast an increase of 60% in 2030 compared to 2012 - partly due to the ageing population - of deaths from women's cancer every year, especially in the poorest countries. The final report underlines the priority of focusing on information and prevention to combat this phenomenon. National data also show equally worrying signs: the increase in the incidence of breast cancer is more than 15% in the last five years and affects one in ten women in life. It is the most frequent cancer in women and represents - as everyone has already said - 29 percent of all cancers affecting women: in Italy for 2016 there are estimated about 50,000 new cases of malignant cancer. Considering the frequencies in the various age groups, breast cancers are represented, according to data provided by the Italian Association of Cancer Registers, by 41 percent in the zero-forty-nine age group, by 36 percent in the fifty-sixty-nine age group and by 21 percent in the over seventy age group. Unfortunately, despite the many cases diagnosed in women under the age of fifty, this age group in many regions is excluded from the screening programme, which provides for the execution of a free mammogram every two years, for now reserved, from the National Health System, exclusively to women aged between fifty and sixty-nine years. Early diagnosis is a fundamental weapon in the fight against breast cancer, reducing mortality and increasing therapeutic choices: the probability of healing, which today stands at around 80-85 percent of cases, could exceed 95 percent of cases. Among the methods of prevention to be promoted since the age of secondary schools of second degree there is certainly that of the practice of self-expalpation. However, as early as the age of twenty-five, women should undergo breast examinations, ultrasound examinations and, from the age of forty, mammographic examinations. However, personalized controls based on individual risk factors (hormonal profile, lifestyle), genetic and environmental. I would like to recall, without any controversy, that I drew the Government's attention to this issue with the agenda G/1120/11/12 to the 2014 law of stability, accepted during the examination in the Commission, in which I asked, together with other co-signators, that the new industry guidelines provide for access to mammographic screening also to the age groups under fifty and the extension to the families of women bearers of BRCA-1 and/or BRCA-2 mutations of prevention activities regardless of age. The Ministry replied that these recommendations were included in the National Prevention Plan 2010-2013 and in the subsequent one 2014-2018, approved on 13 November 2014 by the State-Regions Conference. I was particularly pleased to note that, among the macro-objectives, in the area of individual-based strategies, it is proposed to develop an organised path for the prevention of breast cancer on a genetic basis (BRCA-1 and BRCA-2), in an integrated and complementary way to the current screening path. Despite positive intentions, mammographic screening programmes, which are the most effective means of prevention, are not evenly distributed across the country, with large differences between regions, and in particular between North and South. Prevention in the North reaches 80% of those at risk, while in the South it falls below 40%. This regional disparity in the care and care of cancer patients can also be seen from mortality data, which is much more pronounced in the Centre-North than in the South, since survival in cancer depends, as well as on the effectiveness of treatments, on the timeliness of diagnosis and on the quality and timeliness of treatment pathways. In addition, there are no national guidelines on the assessment and management of the hered-family risk of breast and ovary cancer. The commitment of the Government to ensure that all the centers of senology are activated in the different Italian regions, in compliance with the guidelines indicated by the national guidance document, is very important. It has been shown that breast cancer treatment in multidisciplinary breast care centers, i.e. breast units, reduces mortality to five years by 18%, because there is a greater adherence to guidelines, an increase in volumes and, therefore, the experience of specialists and an increase in the multidisciplinary approach, plus the psychological benefits resulting from a better quality of life of patients themselves. The network of senology centres could make it possible to overcome regional differentiations, which our health system cannot avoid, through a 360 degree care of the problems related to female cancers that will also allow the dissemination, as well as the sharing, of the positive benchmarks achieved. The fight against breast cancer is a battle that can only be won if all public actors succeed in making a system, adopting measures of greater protection for the population at risk and with awareness campaigns. The Parliamentary Intergroup - "Together for a commitment to cancer" - of which I am a member together with other colleagues, thanks to the valuable collaboration of many associations and professionals, intends to disseminate good sector practices, monitor trends in disease incidence and regulatory developments and engage in a continuous work of information for citizens. In conclusion, I hope that all efforts to create public consensus on the need to tighten up the fight against breast cancer will be effective, not only in terms of guidelines and guidance, but in their timely, concrete and effective implementation throughout our Peninsula. [[Applause from the AP Group (Ncd-CpI). Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-02-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-760.ana.u25	Senator Padua is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-02-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-760.ana.u26	Madam President, according to the latest data, about 46,000 women get breast cancer every year in Italy. We have repeatedly repeated this number which, albeit sad, serves to raise awareness of ourselves and all of us to accept the gravity of the problem. Apart from skin cancer, this is the most frequent cancer in the female population, about one in eight women, causing the greatest number of deaths in all age groups. Absolutely the first cause of death for women between thirty-five and fifty years old: it is, therefore, a real health emergency of our country. The possibility of getting sick increases with age, with a probability of developing disease that exceeds 5 percent for women between fifty and sixty - nine years. As reported in the texts of the various motions presented, several risk factors have been identified, namely: hormonal factors, metabolic dietary factors, nulliparity, first term pregnancy after thirty years, breast-feeding (on which I will return) and genetic mutations. However, in recent years, since the end of the last century, there has been a modest but steady tendency to decrease mortality for this type of cancer, thanks to the development of early diagnosis programmes, and medical scientific progress. In this rather favourable context, it was also crucial to implement the European resolution on the need for women with breast cancer to be treated by multidisciplinary and specialised teams, while at the same time organising networks of certified senology centres within Member States. In these centres, where multidisciplinary teams are present, there is a greater chance of healing: the women treated have a much higher survival rate, and also a better quality of life, than those who turn to non-specialized structures. Here the various specialists can in fact exchange the necessary information, discuss each individual case and its specifics, in order to define the most appropriate therapeutic plan, increase the chances of success of the treatments and reduce as much as possible the side effects of the drugs. In addition, expenditure savings are also made, as unnecessary or unnecessary examinations are avoided, or repeated many times. This can also reduce the travels that many patients are often forced to make to contact with the various specialists, which obviously involve a waste of economic resources and time often not indifferent. In addition, the individual opinions of a doctor are replaced by a collegial decision that arises from the comparison and analysis of several professionals, which follows the most up-to-date protocols and guidelines and which considers the patient's point of view. In fact, every therapeutic option is expected to be examined and explained to women, who must be placed at the centre of the care and the decisions related to it. In our country, however, there is a certain unevenness in the spread of centers and care to which women can access within the various regions, contributing once again to the spread of leopard access to care and thus failing to comply with the provisions of our Constitution to Article 32, as many times - unfortunately too many - we have highlighted. In conclusion, I would stress the importance of encouraging breast units and specialist centres and increasing the number of information given to women on the importance of screening and prevention. On this I think it is particularly important to involve the basic doctors, but also the pediatricians. For example, young mothers should be informed that breast-feeding may have a reduced risk of disease, because it is known that the longer and the more they breast-feed, the lower the risk of this disease becoming ill. A cultural path is therefore already created so that when the woman is called to do the screening, she will already know the problem and already know what it is going to do, apart from the fact that by breast-feeding, she helps the child to grow better. Screening, prevention and continuous monitoring are therefore, in my opinion, the key points on which to base future health policies in order to combat the spread of breast cancer more and more appropriately, as is also foreseen in our motion. [[Applause from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-02-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-760.ana.u27	The debate is closed. I call the representative of the Government, and I would ask him to give his opinion on the motions put forward.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-02-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-760.ana.u28	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to thank those who have tabled motions on an important subject such as breast cancer, which is the first cancer by frequency, representing 30% of all new cancer diagnosis. In Italy, around 50,200 new cases of breast cancer are estimated to have been diagnosed in 2016. In addition to being the first cancer by frequency, breast cancer is also the main cause of cancer mortality in women, with 17 percent total, and in all age groups (zero-forty-nine years, fifty-sixty-nine years, over seventy years), and with 11,939 deaths for this cause in 2013. Among Italian women, the most frequently diagnosed tumor in the past is breast cancer, with 692,955 women prevailing in 2015, followed by tumor of the colon rectum (201,617 prevalent), thyroid (124,850) and that of the body of the uterus. To assess the survival of five years since the diagnosis, standardized by age, in women with cancer, the Italian figure (85.5%) can be compared with the European average of 81.8%. If we define healed people with a previous diagnosis of cancer who have a life expectancy comparable to that of people without cancer, they were in 2010 704.648, equal to 27 percent of all the prevailing and 1.2% of Italians. As regards the main risk factors of this malignancy, it should be noted that there is a complex set of factors. First of all, the risk of breast cancer increases as age increases, with a probability of breast cancer development: 2.4 percent up to 49 years; 5.5 percent between fifty and sixty - nine years; 4.7 percent between seventy and eighty - four years. Other risk factors may be related to procreativity, nulliparity, the use of hormonal therapy, lifestyle and dietary behaviour, while some epidemiological studies indicate the possible role of certain environmental pollutants. On the other hand, although most mammary carcinomas are sporadic, 5-7 percent is determined by genetic mutations. Strategies to reduce the burden of disease are based, firstly, on the provision of proven effective interventions and, secondly, on the provision of services that ensure quality, fairness and sustainability. In Europe, the evaluation of the effectiveness of screening interventions has so far been carried out by a working group at the IARC (International agency for research on cancer) of the World Health Organisation. IARC, in addition to the indication of the efficacy of mammographic screening in women of fifty-sixty-nine years, on the basis of the analysis of scientific literature, considers insufficient evidence of reduction of mortality through clinical examination and autopalpation. The European Code against Cancer, the initiative of the European Commission, recommends screening for breast cancer, which is carried out by means of an X-ray called mammography, aimed at detecting signs of breast cancer, which is also able to detect cancers that are too small to be perceived by the touch. The earlier a breast cancer is discovered, the more effective the treatment will be. Screening does not prevent the development of breast cancer, but allows the detection of early cancer, which increases the chances of successful treatment. Currently mammography is the only screening method that has been shown to help prevent deaths from breast cancer. Prevention remains the most effective long-term strategy to reduce the increasing incidence of cancer. Fundamental pillars of cancer prevention are cancer screening programs for breast cancers, cervixes and colorectal cancers (only these three cancers are subject to screening programs, because only for them there is evidence that the population programs are effective and have a positive balance between benefits and damages). In this respect, as expressed in the Technical Guidance Document to reduce the burden of cancer disease (referred to in the State-Regions agreement of 30 October 2014), the main characteristics of a public health intervention consist, firstly, in being based on effective assessments of interventions, in order to reduce mortality and, where appropriate, the incidence of cancers in the reference population; secondly, in being organized for assistance profiles and, therefore, not only delegated to competence, sensitivity and technical-professional initiative; thirdly, in being targeted at equity and, therefore, based on the active involvement of the target population; fourthly, in being provided with an explicit information and evaluation system. Public health screening programmes provide for a regular active invitation of the target population (age fifty-sixty-nine years) and a monitoring of all stages of the diagnostic and treatment process following the screening test. The results are, in absolute numbers, increasingly impressive: during 2015, the calls made were 3,162,602 for mammographic screening in the priority age group between fifty and sixty-nine years and 3,521.090 considering the target extended to forty-five to seventy-four years (1,961,832 people carried out the proposed test following the invitation). Essential levels of assistance (LEA) include the screening programme organized by mammography, while specialised and instrumental and laboratory diagnostic services provided in outpatient arrangements are provided in outpatient specialist care. The possible extension of screening programmes (both of the expected age group and of the diagnostic performances included) as well as the examination of scientific evidence must be based on the sustainability that characterises inclusion in the LEAs. As regards the action programme, oncology is considered to be a national programming priority, and special attention has always been paid to breast cancer; therefore, within the framework of the general national programming framework for oncology, the Ministry of Health has considered it appropriate to set up a working group, together with the autonomous regions and provinces, to prepare guidelines on the organizational and welfare modalities of the network of senology centres, ratified as agreed at the State-Regions Conference on 18 December 2014. The issue had already been raised at European Parliament level in 2003 with the resolution on breast cancer calling on the Member States and the Commission to make the fight against breast cancer a priority of health policy and to develop a comprehensive network of breast cancer centres, defining dedicated pathways for breast cancer patients. Further indications were given in the 2006 resolution on breast cancer, which called on all Member States to ensure, by 2016, the establishment of multidisciplinary breast cancer centres throughout the national territory. Scientific evidence shows that the activation of dedicated pathways offers significant benefits in terms of survival and overall qualification of care and quality of life. The Ministry of Health, therefore, as I have already mentioned, has prepared the establishment of a working group dedicated to the definition of specific guidelines on the organizational and welfare methods of the network of senology centers, with the aim of facilitating the diagnosis and the treatment process of patients suffering from breast cancer. This document represents the starting point for regional health systems to refer to, in order to make available, at territorial level, suitable and organised structures, able to welcome patients and offer them an appropriate path of care, in a logic of effective planning and reorganization for levels of complexity of structures already present and available in the national territory. The primary objective of the Ministry of Health's document is better organisation of services, not only with a view to optimising economic resources and making the best use of professional experience; it also aims at better planning, with the aim of providing quality health services and in the most appropriate and uniform way for patients in the territorial area. All this is reflected in a better quality of life: the primary objective is a network that is able to fully intercept demand from patients, and that offers quality services and services. The presence of a network ensures, not only the strictly oncology route, but also coordination with the territorial services, starting from the screening phase, up to home care and rehabilitation routes. A coordination group has been set up, among other things, which has drawn up a card - already sent to the Regions - aimed at evaluating the state of implementation. The Regions, in fact, are called to send a response to the checklist that this Ministry has transmitted to the regional councils to the health. The responses will be evaluated with a view to describing the state of the art in relation to the senology network: this network is part of the oncology network and must meet organisational criteria on levels of complexity. Regarding the considerations on motions, on motion 684, signed by Senator Gaetti and other senators, on the first commitment, in relation to the senology centers, it is reiterated that the monitoring activity is part of the tasks of the coordination table for the implementation of the network of senology structures and that the publication of the results of the monitoring is consistent with the transparency functions. With regard to the practical feasibility of an award mechanism for the virtuous regions, it must be assessed in the light of institutional arrangements and the rules on the allocation of funding. Regarding the second commitment, regarding the quality and efficiency of the senology centers, it is confirmed that the guarantee to care in certified and qualified centers is based on the criteria and the same mechanism of the procedure of institution and development of the senology centers, according to the understanding State-Regions of 18 December 2014, to which I referred. In particular, the evaluation of the activities of the Directors-General responsible for these centres belongs to the competences of the Regions. As regards the promotion of information campaigns, referred to in the third commitment, it should be noted that as early as 2011, the Ministry of Health carried out a campaign specifically dedicated to the pathology of breast cancer, with the priority objective of raising women's awareness of the problem and promoting greater attention on the various aspects of prevention. The issue has recently been addressed as part of the National Women's Health Day, held on 22 April 2016. As part of this event, women were able to take advantage of free visits and examinations aimed also at the prevention of oncology, carried out with the collaboration of scientific societies, as well as during the annual event "Tennis and friends" held in Rome on 8 and 9 October 2016, under the patronage of the Ministry of Health, and aimed at raising public awareness of the importance of health prevention. In particular, more than 6,000 visits and 1,300 medical consultations were carried out free of charge, including 70 mammograms and 100 mammary ultrasounds. In addition, more than 2,500 copies of brochures and leaflets were distributed at the booth set up by the Ministry of Health. As for the fourth commitment, it is specified that already in the national plan of the prevention 2010-2013, was previewed among the objectives of the Regions that to "re-engineer" the spontaneous prevention, that is to redirect in the fields of the programs of screening organized the questions of mammographies for the prevention for the benefit of women of target age. This strategy is consistent with the scientific studies available today. With regard to Senator Rizzotti's motion on the commitment made, it is recalled that the recent update of the essential levels of health care introduces, for the first time, the genetic test on the genes BRCA-1 and BRCA-2, aimed at ascertaining the presence of mutations that increase the risk of breast and ovarian hereditary cancer. However, at present, the presence of mutations is not one of the conditions guaranteeing an exemption from the ticket for performances useful for the periodic monitoring of women's conditions for an early diagnosis of cancer. In fact, for the insertion or, alternatively, for the preparation and execution of organized programs of early diagnosis, which are carried out free of the ticket pursuant to Legislative Decree No. 124 of 1998, it appears necessary to acquire data on the diffusion of the mutation in the population; the acquisition of data on the typology and frequency of the examinations to be carried out annually and, consequently, on the amount of the ticket associated with their carrying out; the estimate of the total annual cost of the exemption. In addition, it should be considered that a national commission has recently been set up for the continuous updating of the essential levels of assistance, involving experts and representatives of the main national bodies and bodies with technical and scientific competences in the field of health. As regards the Government's position on the individual commitments of the motions, as regards Senator Rizzotti and others' motion No 600, I express a favourable opinion, provided that the first commitment of the device is preceded by the formula: With regard to Senator D'Ambrosio Lettieri's motion 638 and others, a favourable opinion is expressed provided that the second commitment of the device is preceded by the formula: "to evaluate the possibility of "" and, in the end, the words "on the basis of the available scientific evidence" are added, and that the fourth commitment is preceded by the formula: "to evaluate the possibility of ""." With regard to Senator Gaetti's motion 684 and others, it is a favourable opinion, provided that the first two commitments of the device are preceded by the formula: With regard to Senator Dirindin and others' motion No 713, it is in favour, provided that the third commitment of the operative part is preceded by the formula: Finally, with regard to Senator Mazzoni's motion No 719 and others, I am in favour, provided that the fifth and seventh commitment of the device are preceded by the formula:
ParlaMint-IT_2017-02-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-760.ana.u29	We shall now proceed to the vote on the motions for resolutions.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-02-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-760.ana.u30	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-02-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-760.ana.u31	Senator D'Ambrosio Lettieri, I thought I understood that you had given up your speech during the explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-02-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-760.ana.u32	D'Ambrosio Lettieri (CoR). No, Madam President, my Group has given up speaking in general. However, my explanation of vote will be very brief. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. We did not have your general speech. Mr D'Ambrosio Lettieri, Senator D'Ambrosio, may speak in his explanation of vote. D'Ambrosio Lettieri (CoR). Madam President, I welcome the Government's requests and confirm that the Undersecretary has also endorsed them. I therefore announce the vote in favour by the Group of Conservatives and Reformists - Direction Italy to all the motions presented. [[Applause from the CoR Group and Senator Anitori.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-02-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-760.ana.u33	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-02-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-760.ana.u34	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-02-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-760.ana.u35	COMAROLI (LN-Aut). Madam President, today we have heard so much about a dramatic issue - let me use this term. I think that everyone in this House has had the opportunity to meet this bad disease or personally - and in this case they are lucky people to be here today - or for family or dear friends; however, we have all been touched. I consider myself lucky, President, to live in a region - Lombardy - at the forefront of care. In particular, I find myself lucky to live in the Province of Cremona, where there is a breast unit very renowned for the treatment of breast cancer. However, it is unacceptable that this is not the case in all parts of Italy. It is unacceptable that people who need this treatment should move, taking considerable miles, to be treated. It is regrettable that, with reference to the invitation to the Government, present in various motions, to commit itself to the creation of senology centers, the Undersecretary proposed to use the formula: "to evaluate the opportunity of". Are you kidding me? We're talking about the death of people. I understand that the issue of costs must always be taken into account, including in the area of health, but I regret to see that in the last Stability Act, adopted last December, 290 million have been allocated for the so-called adult bonus, while today the proposal to allocate EUR 10 million for innovative cancer medicines is rejected. Sorry to see these things and to what importance is attached. Today we have heard dramatic numbers: it is true that we care more and more, but it is also true that there are more and more cases in which the tumor manifests itself. We must then carry out a serious analysis of the various cases and try to prevent them. The centers of senology really help, in concrete terms, to prevent and to prevent the loss of all hope. It is regrettable to note the 30% increase in this disease in young women, who often do not think of the possibility of becoming ill. I think many of us think that certain things only happen to others, but they don't. Unfortunately, I lost a dear friend because of breast cancer, and I feel bad about the thought that nothing could be done. Therefore, the whole information and stimulation campaign of the young generations in the field of prevention should be well received. In some people's opinion, prevention is expensive, but in my opinion it is not expensive and - indeed - even saves money, because prevention is much less expensive than dealing with the disease's course afterwards. My group will therefore vote in favour of all the motions that have been tabled, but, with its heart, calling for a greater commitment from the Government on such an important issue. [[Applause from Senator Council.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-02-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-760.ana.u36	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-02-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-760.ana.u37	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-02-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-760.ana.u38	MAZZONI (ALA-SCLP). Madam President, I welcome the proposal for the rewording of the motion to my first signature by the Undersecretary of State, Mr Faraone, and I am voting in favour of all the other motions that have been tabled. The sense of the motions is essentially to ensure in a homogeneous way throughout the country in-depth and appropriate treatments and performance for breast cancers. It is necessary to give more concreteness to what is contained in the Health Pact, with the aim of setting an integrated and multidisciplinary approach to the strategy of cancer control, which must take into account - together - prevention, treatment and rehabilitation. The key points I would like to highlight are two: to strengthen screening programmes in all the Italian regions, noting that the southern regions have lower rates of participation in the programmes, but also a lower efficiency of the programmes because the number of women who receive the invitation for examination is still very low. In order to solve this problem, two interventions can be envisaged: one aimed directly at women, so that they become aware of the risk of developing breast cancer and therefore have a better adherence to screening; the other is to closely monitor regional data in order to improve the efficiency of the programmes. Interventions aimed at raising women's awareness should start at several levels, from schools with targeted programmes for girls, to the involvement of family doctors, to effective media campaigns. The second fundamental point concerns the activation of the breast units, the centers of multidisciplinary senology, throughout the national territory. This is a key point for the management of patients already diagnosed. The multidisciplinary path is, in fact, fundamental for the success of the treatments. In 2014 the State-Regions Conference approved legislation that provides, since the end of 2016, for the presence in all Italian regions of specific multidisciplinary structures dedicated to breast cancer treatment. To date, more than 120 multidisciplinary senology centres are already active and Italy is at the top of Europe for the dissemination of these structures. It has been shown that breast cancer treatment in multidisciplinary breast care centres increases the survival rate of patients by 18 percent, without considering the psychological benefits derived from better quality of life of patients and a more rational and effective use of resources. Among the centres of excellence that exist in Italy, I would like to mention the Department of Oncology of the "Santo Stefano" in Prato, which with the contribution of the Pitigliani Foundation has created the first unit of bioinformatics thanks to which we can analyze the data of biological elements in order to obtain conclusions that will be essential for the correct treatment of patients. A final suggestion, which comes from those who work on the front line on breast cancer, is the establishment of ad hoc funding, managed by specific calls for projects to be evaluated by well-known auditors in the sector at international level. This funding should be multi-annual, substantial, banned annually with a commitment for several years and should focus on the development of new diagnostic-therapeutic strategies for breast cancer patients. To this should be added the creation of structures dedicated to female cancers, with particular attention to breast cancer, which function as cancer centers, in order to carry out research and cure programs. These structures - one in the North, one in the Centre and one in the South - should make it possible to optimize the path of care and research, resolving the current fragmentation that results in resource expenditure and low productivity, as well as too many journeys of hope.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-02-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-760.ana.u39	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-02-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-760.ana.u40	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-02-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-760.ana.u41	PETRAGLIA (Misto-SI-SEL). Madam President, today's debate had been postponed for many months because, when the motions were put on the agenda, it was asked to postpone the debate because Minister Lorenzin was unable to take part. Without taking anything away from undersecretary Pharaoh, whom we thank for his presence, today we would have expected to discuss with Minister Lorenzin. Early diagnosis of breast cancer is a sensitive and important issue and all the interventions, both in the illustration and in the discussion, have emphasized the need to make early diagnosis, because the sooner cancer is discovered and the more possibilities for treatment are increased. The scientific studies tell us, unfortunately, that cancer is not prevented precisely because the causes are little known, as well explain the general parts of some motions. Certainly the prevention campaigns are good to inform and make aware, but let us be careful to believe that it is enough to anticipate the screening period, perhaps from the age of twenty-five, to solve the problem of early diagnosis. Also because we should avoid transmitting the feeling, as an old French comedy said, that health is just an interval between different diseases: it would be a wrong message that we risk to launch, especially for young people. We know how important health education is: it is fundamental and sacrosanct within schools, because it helps children to control and manage their bodies properly. But this is more than the campaigns we have talked about today, also because health education in schools should be aimed at all, male and female, not only at girls, regarding the management and respect of their bodies. Another thing is a reduction in age for screening when we are faced with cases with familiarity or subject to radiation treatments at a young age; in those cases it is already expected that diagnosis will be early and must be anticipated by many years, but we are talking about specific cases. I emphasized this part in my speech because some of the motions beat on this point and the government's favourable opinion leads us to think that we must be careful about the right prevention, but also to submit women in this case to the appropriate diagnostics, that is, necessary and useful, because - as has been said in various interventions - the scientific evidence tells us, unfortunately, that not always anticipating screening everything is prevented. One consideration that I have heard little today is that there is a serious issue that the Government and the Minister of Health must take on, namely that 11 million Italian citizens give up treatment because they do not have the resources: let alone they can do prevention! In order to avoid this, resources are needed and the direction and choice, adopted in the last budget law, must be reversed to continue to make cuts in health care. It is important to involve the whole system of public health, starting with basic doctors, as has been said, in order to ensure prevention, screening and early diagnosis, and above all to intervene to reduce inequalities between regions, because today the theme is to ensure that in all regions the same interventions of prevention and screening are guaranteed, with the main objective of reducing waiting lists. Investing resources means giving everyone access to public health and not forcing them to resort to private health. It would be a vast subject to talk about, but time is tyrant. I would like to thank the motion-makers for bringing such an important issue into the Senate Chamber. I hope that next time we can also discuss what happens to those who unfortunately suffer from cancer, when the public system takes charge of them, because in this area too there are many serious problems and we need to intervene. [[Applause from Senator De Petris.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-02-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-760.ana.u42	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-02-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-760.ana.u43	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-02-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-760.ana.u44	AELLO (AP (Ncd-CpI)). Madam President, we accept the proposed rewording and we announce a vote in favour of all motions, even though, with great honesty, we would have preferred that we could have achieved a uniformisation of the texts in order to avoid leaving the individual motions standing. That was not the case and we shall therefore vote in favour of all of them. However, let us make a few brief comments on such an important subject, which takes on fundamental aspects from a psychological, social, family and personal point of view. In previous speeches, and in particular in the Secretary's report, there is an important word in relation to such diseases: the "survival" factor. We reject the fact that on such particular pathological conditions we continue to compare everything with economic and financial aspects; it is something that does not belong to us and that we reject: we are apprehensionally opposed to these considerations, even if we appreciate the Government's effort. On such cruel and important pathologies we should all commit ourselves, especially the Government, to make strong, resolute, if necessary inductions, towards those who have organizational responsibilities, that is the Regions, so that we finally get to talk about prevention and not only about diagnosis and cure. This would reduce the problem of survival and give us the opportunity to pay more attention to problems such as prevention. In the motions we speak above all of a decrease in the age threshold, of gene mutations: all important aspects. But do we finally want to talk about organizing the prevention departments? Do we finally want to talk about health education? Why do we keep saying that environmental factors are important, smoking is important, breast-feeding is important; yes, everything is important, but what do we do to avoid problems arising from environmental inductions (such as water or air we breathe) or how do we educate children to have important knowledge about breast-feeding? What do we do to organise health education and school education services to give more knowledge already at the level of primary schools and middle schools? This is the real crux of the matter! What do we do to ensure that the hospital departments are actually better organised from the point of view of the senology operating units in a homogeneous way throughout the national territory? What do we do to make outpatient specialized really work and give the possibility to the whole territory to guarantee not only real surgery performance, but surgical prevention and señological prevention? We do not need to give everyone the needle that has been drawn; it is true, we agree, it is not necessary, but we need to give everyone the opportunity to request a free first visit - I am referring above all to señological visits and ultrasound - in such a way that a great preventive action can be taken. Only in this way, perhaps, will we be able to give concrete answers and mitigate the problem of survival. Otherwise we will see each other in a year's time talking again about cancer prevention and we will be told about the state of the art, but the territories and especially the women will not have a real chance to have concrete answers on the subject. [[Applause from the AP Group (Ncd-CpI).]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-02-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-760.ana.u45	We welcome the students and the teachers of the Agricultural Technical Institute "Giuseppe Garibaldi" in Macerata, who are today visiting the Senate and attending our work. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-02-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-760.ana.u46	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-02-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-760.ana.u47	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-02-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-760.ana.u48	GAETTI (M5S). Madam President, we accept the proposed reformulation and will vote in favour of all the motions. We really hope that the formula will assess the opportunity to use it in many points, be honest and that the points we have clarified will be taken into account. We have discussed and understood that these are really important points on which, in my opinion, we can really intervene even without spending large amounts, but only with the organization. It is hoped that by putting these points back to the evaluation of the Directors-General and whatever else, they will set in motion and can really change things. With this wish, we shall vote in favour of all motions.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-02-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-760.ana.u49	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-02-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-760.ana.u50	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-02-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-760.ana.u51	Mr Rizzotti (FI-PdL XVII). Madam President, honestly, more than a report on the state of the art, which many of us know, we would have liked a concrete commitment from the Government to our motions. Also with regard to the monitoring of the breast units according to what were the indications of the European Commission, beyond the usual working table and comparison to the Ministry, which perhaps will meet once every six months and whose results we may have in two years' time, because we have not been given any precise clarification on this matter, I am quite disappointed. I accept the proposed rewording and we will vote in favour of all the motions, which go in the same direction, namely that we really guarantee the application of Article 32 of the Constitution in a uniform way in all regions. We are well aware that health should not be political in colour and I must say that in our Health Commission problems are never lived on the political side, not least thanks to the leadership of President De Biasi. Of course, there is an economic problem, however, with regard to waste and rain money badly distributed for various purposes in the last three years, I am sure that the Gentiloni Government and Minister Lorenzin, in particular, could quickly - as has been done in other cases not so important and with not so high purposes - raise funds to guarantee everyone an exemption from the ticket, as has been requested. I am also quite disappointed that the Minister of Health, Lorenzin, who is so attentive to women's health at the media level, did not find the time to come to the House this morning for the debate on motions, which are not only about health but about the salvation of life for thousands of people. [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-02-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-760.ana.u52	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-02-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-760.ana.u53	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-02-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-760.ana.u54	DE BIASI (PD). Madam President, the subject is clearly immense. We have limited ourselves, with these motions, to highlighting the issue of screening mainly, and therefore one of the most effective prevention strategies. Moreover, I also believe that compared to screening as a prevention strategy, perhaps we should be more precise even within the essential levels of assistance, naturally hoping that these will be published sooner or later. I believe that we all urgently need to know where we are and how the new essential levels of assistance will be conducted. The theme, however, concerns much more: the clinical aspects, the diagnostic-therapeutic ones but also the psychological and welfare ones, which, given the structure of the motions, have remained a little' in the background, but that I want to point out, because the breast cancer brings with it peculiarities of all the tumors that concern the reproductive apparatus. I am referring to problems relating to femininity, sexuality and fertility. As an element of comorbidity we have emotional-affective disorders. In short, it is a sphere, as has been said, very complex, where the elements of scientific evidence are dramatically associated with psychological ones, which must absolutely be brought back into a unified plan on women's health. On this I continue to insist because breast cancer is part of that path. Prevention means starting from diet and risk factors, first of all smoking for breast cancer, but it also means accessibility: prevention, care and territorial assistance worthy of this name. I remember, for example, palliative treatment strategies, particularly in the treatment of pain, which concern not only terminality, but in general people who have chronicity and breast cancer, as we know is always... [[Brusio.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-02-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-760.ana.u55	Colleagues, let Senator De Biasi finish the surgery, lowering her voice and finishing the sheds. Senator, I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-02-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-760.ana.u56	DE BIASI (PD). Madam President, don't worry: I have otitis, I can't hear it in one ear and, therefore, I can't hear it. I have spoken of territorial assistance worthy of this name, because there is a theme that concerns the solitude of women when they are in such a dramatic health condition, represented by breast cancer. Many things have been done, many progress has been made. I would like to add accessibility to oncology drugs, therapeutic and welfare continuity on the territory and the contribution of the associations and on this last point I want to end. There is an important theme: women, over the years, have become competent patient, experienced patient; they are able to be and must therefore be more involved in the process of defining an organic plan. There are important experiences with hospitals, such as pink stamps, and there are many associations that deal closely with this issue, starting from the subjective experience of women, which is not second-floor. It is clear, however, that I am addressing the Undersecretary and the Government, which I support, that we need to further stimulate the work so that everything that has been done so far and what can be done has a homogeneity in the national territory. In fact, it is no longer tolerable to live or survive a tumor, a breast cancer, depends on the place where you live. It's not acceptable. Opportunities must be the same for Italian citizens, they must be the same for women. The same women who struggle every day to heal, to overcome this great obstacle, cannot be humiliated by such different regional choices. I believe, dear Undersecretary, that we need much more work on this. Screening is important, but - let me say this - it is not the only way: there is fortunately a technological innovation, there is fortunately an innovation in the field of pharmaceuticals and, above all, there must be the idea that screening is not a tool and a goal, but the transition to a prevention strategy. How many women, even young people, could have cared in time if hospitals in the different regions had done what the regions had to do, that is to inform citizens, women and decide, with them and for them, diagnostic and prevention paths starting from screening. Unfortunately, this is not done and we know it perfectly well. That horrible thing that, with a very bad definition, is called health tourism, continues to go on. We cannot tolerate that the professional skills of so many doctors are humiliated in not being able to cure women because there are choices that decide to go in another direction and spend the money of health care for prevention and for the care of other, if not even with serious problems of legality. I therefore believe, Undersecretary, that we must make an effort on this: to give equal opportunities to women in the field of health. Starting with breast cancer and screening is a first step. I hope, given that women are not just their breasts, that we can finally achieve a single and unified project on women's health, because we are everything, we are not just a part of ourselves. I accept, Madam President, the rewording of motion No 713. [[Applause from the PD, FI-PdL XVII and AP groups (Ncd-CpI).]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-02-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-760.ana.u57	Before we proceed to the vote, I warn you that, in line with established practice, motions will be put to the vote in the order of presentation. We shall now proceed to the vote on motion No 600 (text 2). SANTANGELO (M5S). We call for simultaneous ballots to be carried out by electronic means. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of motion No 600 (text 2), tabled by Senator Rizzotti and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of motion 638 (text 2), tabled by Senator D'Ambrosio Lettieri and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of motion 684 (text 2), tabled by Senator Gaetti and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of motion No 713 (text 2), tabled by Senator Dirindin and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). I refer to the nominal vote by simultaneous ballot of motion No 719 (text 2), tabled by Senator Mazzoni and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B).
ParlaMint-IT_2017-02-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-760.ana.u58	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-02-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-760.ana.u59	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-02-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-760.ana.u60	PHASE (PD). Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, I am speaking to commemorate the disappearance of Senator Nereo Batello, a leading figure not only in the political field, but also in the forensic and cultural field, a tireless worker, a great innovator, a personality dedicated to study and civil commitment. Militant in the Italian Communist Party since the post-war period, municipal councillor in the early 1950s, then regional councillor, covered two legislatures in the Senate from 1983 to 1992 (IX and X legislature). In the Senate, Battello was a member of several committees, including the Board for the Rules of Procedure, the 2nd Permanent Commission (Justice), the Commission for the prosecution proceedings, the Parliamentary Commission for the investigation of terrorism in Italy and the causes of the non-identification of those responsible for the massacres, the Committee of Inquiry into Masonic Lodge P2 and dealt with the revision of the Code of Criminal Procedure, bringing its qualified contribution. He is remembered for his important contribution to the Justice Commission, for having been a signatory to a bill on torture, which also awaits our approval, for the presentation of a bill for the abolition of state secrets, for the crimes of massacre and terrorism. Until the last, Nereo Battello participated in the political and cultural life of the city of Gorizia. He was the authoritative leader of the Committee promoting the yes to the constitutional referendum, with which he presented several initiatives in 2016 until last November. Battello was a personality able to attract broad consensus, esteem and admiration not only in the area of the party in which he militated from the very young, but transversally to all political and social belongings. What matters most and for which it will be remembered is that at the basis of those consents there were personal value, genuine political passion, clarity, foresight and professional honesty. The civil commitment and above all the courage always guided his action: in particular, I remember that he acquired national notoriety, along with other courageous lawyers, in the trial for the massacre of Peteano, in 1972, where he masterfully expressed his ability in unforgettable arguments, which led to the absolution of those who had been unjustly accused of the massacre. Nereo Battello also had the great political and moral courage to extend, as the leader of the provincial federation of the PCI, the famous manifesto entitled "I communisti isontini" and the facts of Hungary" in which he expressed open condemnation - then it was really a very important act - for the Soviet intervention of 1956. And again, it must be remembered the long association with Franco Basaglia and his team, who found himself defending in court in several circumstances. It was not only a professional closeness between the two, but political and above all deeply human. We remember his great passion for cinema, from whose world he was very appreciated, and his friendship with Ettore Scola and directors such as Franco Giraldi: rare friendships, due to the great esteem he was surrounded. Finally, it should be remembered his activity as President of the prestigious Sergio Amidei award, founded by him, for the best young Italian screenwriter. On December 6, two days after his eighty-eighth birthday, he came to Rome for a case in cassation. Only last week, Monday at lunchtime, in Room 6 of the Gorizia Court, was still defending some young defendants, sitting in the back row, he who was the first of the lawyers. In the last act of his extraordinary forensic career, the extreme synthesis of his life: giving voice and right to those who do not have it. Thanks to Senator Battello for the great example of life and good politics, a model example, which leaves to his loved ones, the territory and the country. [[Applause from the PD Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-02-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-760.ana.u61	Thank you, Senator Fasiolo. The Presidency is associated, in the memory of this personality.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-02-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-760.ana.u62	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-02-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-760.ana.u63	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-02-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-760.ana.u64	DI GIACOMO (AP (Ncd-CpI)). Madam President, with the decree to approve the business act signed on 2 February by the Commissioner ad acta del Molise Paolo Di Laura Frattura, the only Stroke Unit (Centro Emergenza Scatter) of the Region was closed. From tomorrow, who will have the misfortune of being hit by an acute cerebrovascular accident or will be moved to a private structure or will be transferred out of the Region, with all the risks that this will entail. This continues the work of dismantling the health system of Molise, where the essential levels of care are no longer guaranteed and the lives of patients, in addition to their health, are put in daily danger. It is not uncommon to be faced with patients who die in the emergency rooms of hospitals that survive the destruction carried out by the police headquarters or patients who die in mysterious circumstances, linked to episodes of malasanity. In the face of this disaster, if a health worker, doctor or nurse is allowed to complain or criticize the working conditions in which he is forced to operate, he is immediately sanctioned with a disciplinary measure, as has recently happened to a first aid doctor at the hospital in Isernia. I have tabled several questions and even a motion to the Minister for Health, asking him to intervene and to send the ministerial inspectors, but without any response. I therefore call on this House and you, Madam President, to take measures to guarantee the health and life of the Molise people.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-02-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-760.ana.u65	The motions, questions and questions received by the Presidency will be published in Annex B to today's report. I remember that the Senate will return to meet in public today, at 4.30 p.m., with the agenda already printed and distributed. The sitting was closed at 12.54.
