ParlaMint-IT_2017-09-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-877.ana.u1	The sitting was opened at 11.06 a.m. The Minutes shall be read. Mr SIBILIA, secretary, read the Minutes of the afternoon sitting of 14 September. PRESIDENT. - The debate is Since there were no comments, the Minutes were approved.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-09-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-877.ana.u2	The list of senators on leave and absent on assignment received from the Senate, as well as further communications to the Assembly, will be published in Annex B to today's Minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-09-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-877.ana.u3	I would warn you that qualified votes can be taken in the course of today's sitting by electronic means. Therefore, from this moment the period of 20 minutes from the notice provided for in Article 119, paragraph 1, of the Regulation begins (11:08 hours).
ParlaMint-IT_2017-09-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-877.ana.u4	I communicate that, with communication of September 18, Senator Vincenzo Cuomo has declared to opt for the office of mayor of the city of Portici. As an option case resulting from an incompatibility situation, the Senate takes note of this. I authorize the Council of Parliamentary Elections and Immunities to convene to carry out the investigation concerning the identification of the successor candidate.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-09-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-877.ana.u5	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-09-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-877.ana.u6	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-09-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-877.ana.u7	BELLOT (Misto-Fare!). Mr President, the next item is the debate on the motions for resolutions on the management responsibilities of banks. I believe there has been an omission, and I am speaking for our Group: I am referring to motion No 505, tabled in January 2016 and which focuses on the verification of the management by the body that must monitor the proper functioning of our banks, which has not been annexed to those we are debating today. I would therefore ask the President to state the reasons for this after a check. In our view, this is out of place, because the subject was absolutely relevant to the agenda.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-09-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-877.ana.u8	The motion was considered and it was not considered that the matter was related. So that's the reason, without any prejudice.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-09-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-877.ana.u9	The next item is the debate on motions 1-00812 (text 3), tabled by Senator Augello and other Senators, 1-00813, tabled by Senator Cappelletti and other Senators, 1-00814 (text 2), tabled by Senator De Petris and other Senators, 1-00815, presented by Senator Stefani and other Senators, 1-00816 (text 2), presented by Senator Guerra and other Senators, 1-00830, presented by Senators Zanda, Bianconi, Zeller and other Senators, and 1-00831, presented by Senator Barani and other Senators, on the management responsibilities of banks. I call Senator Augello to explain motion 812 (text 3).
ParlaMint-IT_2017-09-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-877.ana.u10	Mr President, we come to the debate on these motions, unfortunately, with some objective delay compared to the preparatory work that has taken place in the House in order to implement the legislation contained in the decree-law known as the rescue bank. That decree would probably have been the appropriate forum for introducing some of the measures at the heart of the debate that we will be holding here shortly in this House on the issue of both the extension of the list of redemptions to bondholders and the sanctions in relation to the behaviour of directors who have been responsible for the bankruptcy of some banks in the recent past. I start from there, from the work that should have been done in the House, because I owe a clarification to my colleagues in Group 1 - Democratic and Progressive Movement (MDP), in particular of the House, which has perhaps escaped us, but which I gladly introduce our motion. Indeed, the rules we are talking about and the demands that we have included in the petitum come from an agreement, reached in the Budget Committee of all forces, convergent largely in the contents of an amendment tabled by the Group Art. 1-MDP. I am glad to acknowledge that, because at that time it seemed that there was the Government's agreement to put forward an amendment that could roughly reflect the content of the requests in the motion. This amendment was then skipped, resulting in a disastrous outcome. In fact, the issues at the center of that text were no longer addressed to the House and, what is worse, to the Senate, having surpassed the necessity for the Government to ask for confidence on the provision, it was no longer possible to change the text that had been transmitted to us. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I think you will remember the rest; there has been an attempt by the 5 Star Movement Group to anticipate the debate on motions against that vote of confidence. For a handful of votes this request has not passed. We are here, now, on the last useful occasion to do a good job, amending the work done by the Government with an act of direction, inviting the Government itself to the first useful measure, the next financial law, to heal some issues that have been at the center of the debate and expectations of the public opinion in the months of the heated controversy about the fate of savers overwhelmed by the crack of banks. Among the issues we raise, I would like to point out the two main ones. The first is the tightening of sanctions against the administrators responsible for these disasters, with rules that should allow the judge to always apply the sanction of perpetual ban from public offices against these gentlemen. Then there is another issue, which is even more decisive at this time: the extension of the audience to bondholders who bought bonds from bankrupt banks until February 2016 and even after that date. These are the essential demands. We will return to the political technical demands also in the explanation of vote. Moreover, fortunately, several motions require the same thing and, therefore, other colleagues will articulate more deeply their considerations on the progression that has led to the unjust exclusion of these bondholders and to a far too soft treatment for those responsible for the failures. There is a political issue here, to some extent collateral, which we are putting at the heart of the debate. It was not nice, colleagues from the Democratic Party, not to allow the Assembly to table amendments to the so-called bank-saving decree and, above all, to prevent the discussion of motions before the Government decided to put confidence in the measure. It was a mistake, because outside this House there is a great deal of attention and expectation about the events that we and the relevant Commissions had to deal with. There is no doubt that, after a chain of events that covers even the credibility of the Government (it is not my custom to accentuate the aspects that determine itch involving relatives and acquaintances of members of the Government, on which I do not want to dwell), there is a great distance between the way in which in the end it was decided to face the situation and what was right and lawful to grant to the expectations of hundreds and thousands of unbelieving savers and of the wider public opinion, to which it has been explained that one could not go beyond a certain limit in judging the behaviors that caused the failures. Moreover, we are talking about situations in which the managers sometimes have a substantial incompetence to conduct and management. Even when it seemed peaceful and the Government had even given its first informal assent to the Chamber of Deputies, it was not even possible to extend the reimbursements after 1 February 2016. There were two unexplained and unexplained responses from the government, to which it is necessary to return today. On returning, the Senate performs exactly its duty, with an act of direction that corrects and amends these shortcomings in the conduct of the Government in the face of the emergency that struck the country and thousands of families. Unfortunately, we note with some bitterness the presentation of another document by the majority - in particular the Democratic Party - in which, once again, these two issues are totally eluded and that openness and attention that the Government had shown in relation to the amendment submitted to the Chamber of Deputies are completely closed, in favour of a negative and essentially closing position. This obviously determines the great importance of the vote in this House, with which, at this point, no longer comes into play a technical aspect, as had been said at first, which would have led to the withdrawal of the amendment and its transformation into the agenda. In fact, a political question emerges, a clear division that goes through this House in relation to the attitude that must be taken towards the banking system and the Italian savers, who must distinguish well those who have rights, are weaker and have the right to protection compared to those who, because of their incompetence and arrogance, have dragged into bankruptcy and ruin a significant part of our banking system. These are the two cornerstones of the game that will take place in this House in the next few hours and I believe that, in the face of this situation, we can only reaffirm our full commitment in this House to conclude that result which has been too long denied both to public opinion and savers. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I call Senator Cappelletti to explain motion 813.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-09-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-877.ana.u11	Mr President, in the first reading of the so-called decree-law saves banks, as was also the case at second reading in the Senate, it seems by explicit order of Banca Intesa Sanpaolo, that the text of the measure could not be amended. It is an order of Banca Intesa Sanpaolo to which the Democratic Party, the Government and the political majority have considered that they want to subjugate, with good peace of the prerogatives of Parliament. In the Finance Committee in the House of Deputies, however, the rapporteur, or a member of this majority, had tabled an amendment, which was then withdrawn perhaps because it was realized that it concerned all the directors of failed banks, thus including also the directors of Etruria Bank, particularly protected by the Democratic Party. This amendment intended, firstly, to extend the audience of bondholders benefiting from the Solidarity Fund and, secondly, to provide for rules to impose appropriate sanctions to enable the court to condemn the directors of banks, if held responsible, to perpetual prohibition from public offices, to perpetual prohibition from the pursuit of the professions, from the management offices of legal persons and undertakings and to the inability to negotiate with the public administration. The withdrawal of the amendment by the rapporteur and the subsequent confidence did not allow the debate on these issues to take place in the parliamentary classrooms. This has seriously damaged Parliament's prerogatives, which has therefore been weakened and deprived of its primary function. Having said that, with this motion we call for the commitment of the Government on three points: to favour the wider debate - unlike what has been done so far - on these issues, also in order to define legislation on the responsibility of the directors of the failed banks; to encourage the adoption of appropriate measures to allow the judicial authority, established the responsibility of the corporate leaders, to always condemn the latter to perpetual ban from the public offices, to perpetual ban from the exercise of the professions, from the management offices of the legal persons and the inability to contract with the public administration; to put in place measures to ensure fair treatment of rest for all investors involved in the crises that have invested the banking system. [[Applause from the M5S Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-09-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-877.ana.u12	I call Senator De Petris to explain motion No 814 (text 2).
ParlaMint-IT_2017-09-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-877.ana.u13	Mr President, I will not repeat the chronicle of these motions, which Senator Augello also mentioned a moment ago, but it is clear that, after the approval of Decree-Law No 99 of 2017 in the House, we were faced with a real situation of omission. It is true that the same rapporteur for the measure had tabled an amendment to the House which raised the question of the liability of the directors of failed banks and the perpetual prohibition of the same from the public offices and from the exercise of the professions, but it is equally true that, as is well known, this proposal was not included by the Government in the text on which the question of trust was raised. Well, in our view this has been absolutely incomprehensible and politically unjustifiable. The motions were, therefore, presented to try to remedy what we can call an omission - I would also say a sort of complicity, of silence that has been attempted to bring down on the responsibilities of these real cracks of the banks - out of respect for the shareholders and all those savers who have suffered enormous damage from this situation. These motions, including ours, were tabled to ensure that this amendment could be recovered in the Senate, but this did not happen because here too the question of trust was raised and it was done in such a way as not to discuss the motions. The subject remains, however, enormous and concerns the fact that with the so-called rescue decree banks has established itself as primary interest only and only the stability of the banking system with respect to social creditors and this is the principle that oversees the action of the Government and also - I must say - the action of Bankitalia and Consob, for which the protection of savers is the last of thoughts. Among other things, the referral of administrators to the judiciary, for example by way of an obstacle to supervision, is also covered by a kind of secret investigation to preserve the reputation of banks. The theme of the responsibility of those who protect savers, of those who have received bonuses, among other things lauti, after having put these real deceptions to savers, of those who pay for this situation has been totally omitted. That is why we consider it absolutely necessary, even if only with the instrument of motions, to commit the Government to implement legislation, which is absolutely urgent, on the responsibility of the directors of failed banks, which incorporates in some way the indication of that amendment. Above all, I would like to point out that the amendment, in addition to raising the non-secondary issue of directors' liability, extended the criteria for repayment to the subordinated bondholders of the Venetian banks. It is therefore a subject on which there is a great deal of attention, because of course there is the unsolved question of the return to the betrayed savers and we try in some way, once again, to rip the cover of silence on the responsibilities of these administrators. I would like to remind you that recently there has been a ruling by the Court of Cassation which once again absolves, for example in the case of the Monte dei Paschi di Siena, the administrators who had in some way the responsibility of the crack and, once again, states that they must not be liable for the damage they have caused. This judgment of the Court is very serious and tells us that it is absolutely urgent to put in place legislation that can finally make those responsible pay. The government, however, as I have already said, with the excuse of trust wanted to avoid this issue, evidently also for great political embarrassments. Let us hope that with these motions and with the commitments they indicate to the government today the Senate Assembly can take a step forward.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-09-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-877.ana.u14	I call Senator Stefani to explain motion 815 but he is not present at the moment. I therefore give the floor to Senator Fornaro to explain motion 816 (text 2).
ParlaMint-IT_2017-09-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-877.ana.u15	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, representative of the Government, the reason why we are discussing the motions on the agenda today has already been widely explained by my previous colleagues, but I believe that, even if it is to facilitate those who listen to us and give a complete sense of what we are doing, we still need to look at the reasons for these acts of direction. In the course of the discussion, at the Chamber's Finance Committee, on the conversion into law of Decree-Law No 99 of 25 June 2017 laying down urgent provisions for the compulsory administrative winding-up of Banca Popolare di Vicenza SpA and Veneto Banca, there was a debate on two fundamental issues: the first concerned a sort of compensation against the savers who had been confiscated compared to previous interventions by the Government regarding the crisis of the four banks, including the Banca Popolare dell'Etruria, and then for Monte dei Paschi di Siena; the other question concerned the need, as has been recalled, to give a strong signal of justice to those directors who had been guilty of actions contrary to good management. In that debate and in the passage to the Commission, the rapporteur presented an amendment which was not put to the vote immediately and which fully reproduced the first-signed amendment Zoggia, Bersani and Ragosta, tabled by our Group on the responsibility of directors. That text stated that, where the clearing commissioners take the action under Article 2394-a of the Civil Code, the court, if it accepts the application against the directors of the banks, always condemns the latter to perpetual prohibition from public offices, to perpetual prohibition from the exercise of the professions, from the management offices of legal persons, businesses and to the inability to negotiate with the public administration. The reason, the objective of this amendment, was that, in the face of a clear responsibility of the directors of the banks which were the object of failure, they were essentially prevented from repeating similar conducts of high social disvalue. The above amendment had a substantial positive view of the Government; after that, in the passage to the Assembly, as has been mentioned, the Executive chose another way, namely to present the original text in the maxi amendment without any correction. The motions under discussion, and ours in particular, seek to heal a vulnus, assuming that there is a substantial consensus of all political groups, including the Government, on the principle that when faced with a clear responsibility of the administrators, they must be prevented from repeating similar conducts. I would add that during the session of the Senate Finance Committee on 18 July last in a hearing of Minister Padoan on banking matters, in the face of a specific observation and question from our parent Cecilia Guerra, Minister Padoan, I quote from the Commission's Report: It continues by declaring its favour with respect to stricter forms of liability for banking operators, given the need to avoid and therefore, if necessary, to suppress the occurrence of unfair conduct. I therefore believe that our motion contains a sense of the work done in the House in the direction I have tried to remember. I expect - and I say this with great transparency to the Undersecretary Baretta - that the Government will follow with the favourable attitude it had shown towards the amendment tabled by the MDP Group and then transposed by the rapporteur in the Finance Committee to the House and be consequent on the statements that Minister Padoan made in the Finance Committee to the Senate. I believe that there is room to find - and this is our wish - a unified and as broad a synthesis as possible because on this subject - I conclude, by reserving myself to speak in an explanation of vote - we need to be aware that we are faced with this - many colleagues present today belong to territories that have experienced this tragedy - to a very deep open wound not only in the social and economic fabric, because many of these banks have in the past been a real engine of development, but also in the trust relationship between consumers, savers, the banking system and the institutions. It is such a deep wound - I mean with great frankness - that one cannot think of treating with warm cloths, i.e. with expressions that send back to an indefinite time the application of ancillary penalties, which risk being counterproductive and, indeed, being lived as a sort of mockery. In other words, there is a demand for justice - it is the meaning of our motion - to restore the confidence of savers in the banking system. And those who know a little bit about the economy and banking systems know that trust is an immaterial capital, but often more important than the economic parameters and indicators imposed by the supervisory bodies. What we expect is a government position that opens up on the subject and is consistent - as I said - with statements made before the summer, because we have to try to heal the wound. This would be a first step in the direction of justice. [[Applause from the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and ……]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-09-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-877.ana.u16	I call Senator Rossi Gianluca to explain motion No 830.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-09-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-877.ana.u17	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, undersecretary Baretta, the reasons for this morning's debate have been widely mentioned by my colleagues. Just for continuity I would like to remind you that with the aforementioned Decree-Law No 99 of 25 June 2017, converted into law in July, a further and decisive step has been taken towards the complete stabilisation of our banking system and that this intervention follows the measures taken for the resolution of four banks and the preventive recapitalisation of the Monte dei Paschi di Siena. We are here discussing an issue, as my fellow Members mentioned, linked to the persecubility of administrators, also seeking a balance of compensation, which remains, in my opinion, a necessary issue. I just want to point out, before we get to the main points that led us to table this motion as a majority, that there is a broad examination of the proposals for amending the provisions relating to the management of banking crises in Europe relating, in particular, to the directive on the resolutions of credit institutions and the directive on capital requirements. This is done through a work which the 6th Permanent Commission of the Senate is participating in with the definition of both resolutions and acts in the ascending phase, on which the Commission itself, as my colleagues who are members of the Senate will recall, has assumed a pronouncement by the Assembly precisely in order to meet the needs mentioned. Moreover, I recall that, also on the basis of the findings of the cognitive investigations carried out by the Senate Finance Committee, the management of credit, also in the banks of Veneto, showed irregularities and poor assessment of credit risk; that the status of popular bank, in particular, had been used to adopt behaviors that went in the sense of the lack of transparency and the irresponsibility of the management groups, perceived as immovable; that the economic crisis of the territory could not fail to reflect on the budgets of the banks; finally, that the attempts of the management to keep the bank afloat had given rise to heavy pressures on accountholders and trustees for the acquisition of shares for values that then collapsed in a few months. Part of this debate, of course, can be developed in the Commission of Inquiry into the Italian banking system. Expected, however, that, to current legislation, there is a problem of perception in the public opinion of substantial lack of incisiveness in terms of sanctions of irregular, illegal or fraudulent behaviour of the directors and that, despite the measures of refreshment also vis-à-vis the holders of bonds (which - I remember - are financial instruments other than the shares, but still with character of investment of risk and very different from the deposits), remains the need to rebuild a firm relationship of trust with the banks and also, as has remembered who preceded me, a firm relationship that sank that wide wound with some territories of our country that is under the eyes of all. This is why we have prepared an act which commits the Government on five points: to rapidly facilitate the recognition of all the sanctions rules, both criminal and administrative, in order to verify their adequacy, taking into account the regulatory framework of the European Union in this field, including, as regards banks benefiting from State aid, the banking communication of 2013; to verify the desirability of introducing measures aimed at linking, in cases of banks subject to extraordinary administration, the exercise of responsibilities vis-à-vis administrators to the imposition of sanctions against them for illegal and fraudulent conduct; to take initiatives, with the involvement of national supervisory authorities, to ensure the correct application, by all persons entitled to provide investment services, of the rules aimed at preventing the placement of the most risky financial instruments in retail clients not able to understand the actual risk, and at the same time to strengthen the sanctions for non-compliance with these rules; to initiate initiatives for the promotion and effective dissemination of financial education; finally, to establish, in agreement with the institutions of the European Union and to the deterioration of the legal framework for the clearance of the European Union's, to create financial aid in the state, while in respect of the legal framework in order for the financial instruments in order to be restored in order for the European Union in order to provide financial education. [[Applause from Senator Silvestro.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-09-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-877.ana.u18	I call Senator Barani to explain motion 831.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-09-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-877.ana.u19	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, we too want to make our contribution in the area of accountability in the management of banks. Now, that the banks had difficulties, everyone knew it a little; it was said and told in bars and squares. But already starting from far away, from the nineties (at that time there were still real statesmen, that now we see no more), it was said that the banks were a caste and were usurers. What does this mean? That there was a narrow oligarchy that ran banks, which obviously favored their friends and friends of friends, and that tarted the saver with wear and tear rates and no guarantee whatsoever. They even took courses with their executives to teach them how to fool savers and invest them. Now, that this was known is given to everyone to know. With Decree-Law No. 99, with urgent provisions for the compulsory winding-up of the four banks and the recapitalisation of the Monte dei Paschi di Siena, a courageous measure has not been made, but the usual "decree" has been done, just to pass the ford. The rapporteur in the Chamber of Deputies had proposed an amendment on the basis of which a tightening of the sanctions currently provided for in the exercise of the liability action pursuant to Article 2394-a of the Civil Code would be regulated, as well as the extension of the audience of bondholders to extend the benefits provided by the Solidarity Fund, remodulating the term of purchase of securities from 12 June 2014 to 1 February 2016. This had not been done by oppositions, but it had been done by the majority, the same majority that had the government's niet, because it is a majority that is not such, but it is a vassal succubus of the will of the Government or of the real caste that operates and controls the Government. This is so true that I would like to resume an intervention that I did last week. It is true that we do not want to set up the Committee of Inquiry into Banks, because a group in this House has not yet appointed its representatives, since they want to know first whether they will have the Presidency of the Commission. This has never happened, Mr President: first the groups give the names and then the president is elected. Not now, things have turned upside down: one thinks first of who the President will be, obviously a member of this Group. It is the Group that blackmails the Government and does not allow any majority to govern. That says a lot about the issues that we are moving forward. Therefore the opposition of the Government is not shared by our Group. The rapporteur was forced to withdraw the amendment, with his ears down, wondering what should not be done in order to continue to have a government. The circumstance has raised great protests within the same majority. Of course, trust was placed here in the Senate and nothing could be done. Our Group therefore asks the Government, represented by the Undersecretary Baretta, of course not before asking the same Government (it is a request that we have already made) to know who were the hundred most important debtors who blew up the banks, because, knowing those, you can make the diagnosis. I'm a doctor, and I think we need this X-ray to figure out where the tumor is. Or, we should know how much - I think Senator Fornaro was talking about it before - the real estate assets that have acquired these banks, but also by whom they have acquired it and at what price, with a surplus of staff even equal to double or triple. We'd be interested to know. Having said that, with motion No. 831 we ask the Undersecretary to respond and the Government to engage on the following points: to promote, in the first provision related to the matter, a regulation that clearly outlines the behaviour and responsibilities of the directors of the failed or bankrupt banks (because there are so many others); to do everything in their ability to guarantee the savers of the failed banking institutions after 1 February 2016 (and not already after 12 June 2014), as therefore provided for for the beneficiaries of Decree-Law No. 99 of 2017; finally, to make the participation in the liquidation processes of the failing credit institutions less costly for savers. We believe that if these answers came, we would take a big step forward. It comes to mind that over the years Ninety some great statesmen (and one of them - I will never finish repeating it, because it is like the red drape of bullboys for bulls - was Bettino Craxi) said that the banks were chaste of usurers. If these answers were to come, we would render a great service to the banking and management system. I call on the President to address the Group which has not yet appointed its members in the Committee of Inquiry into the banking system, and to oblige it to do so or to provide the Presidency itself, because I do not believe that this bargaining on the issue of banks leads to any result. [[Applause from Senator Gambaro.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-09-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-877.ana.u20	The remaining motion is intended to be explained. Senator Giovanardi is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-09-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-877.ana.u21	Mr President, I am a signatory to motion 812 at the first signature of Senator Augello. With my intervention, rather than a technical examination of a way out of this situation, I would like to make a general reflection which concerns banks, the relationship of banks with their customers and the function that the banking system plays in a democratic country and above all in support of the economy. In fact, I believe that Parliament and the Government must resolve a fundamental misunderstanding about television broadcasts on banks. There are in fact two types: the first is the transmissions in which banks are accused of not taking risks with regard to the development of the economy and the good ideas that should be financed; in these broadcasts we tend to underestimate the need, at a time of crisis such as that we have lived from 2008 onwards, that banks and administrators do not abandon to their destiny those who invested and who perhaps bet on a recovery of the economy, closing the accounts and making companies fail or thinking only of their specific interests; a behavior with which the banks themselves show not to take into account the fact that first the crisis will end and that there is who, even honestly and with all the good intentions of the world, thought he could invest and continue to produce, but found himself in a situation in which the crisis has continued for years. There are also other television broadcasts, in which the absolutely contrary argument is supported, namely that the directors, when the credit that has been paid cannot be recovered, are objectively responsible for what has happened and must therefore be called upon to respond to the bar, even personally, criminally and civilly, for the damage they have caused. I therefore believe that Parliament and the Government must clarify two totally different situations in the case involving so many Italian banks. On the one hand, there are bank administrators who have had problems, on the other hand, bank administrators who have not only had problems, but who have held illegal behavior or who in any case have supported initiatives outside the reality, in which there was obviously dole, bad faith and the awareness that the credit paid would not return, or that they sold to the unsuspecting customers of the financial products, already knowing that the situation was irrecoverable, or that, however, they helped to cheat their customers to make the accounts right. It is clear that these personal responsibilities of administrators must also be pursued with all the energy, but we must be careful not to criminalise an entire system and not to involve even the administrators for good, who have supported a line of economic development and rescue of the economy, which then unfortunately has collided with years and years of crisis and with a recovery that was always around the corner and that, unfortunately, has not occurred in these years. I therefore hope that this will be taken into account in the debate on the motions for resolutions before us, and also in the parliamentary committee of inquiry, if its work will begin: we have reached 19 September and, since the Commissioners have not yet been appointed and the President has not yet been identified, I do not know what he will be investigating. Maybe he'll turn up and pass the papers to the next legislature. I therefore believe that there must also be the will to make these clarifications, without looking at anyone's face and, therefore, really going to verify the responsibilities, even criminal ones, of individuals, but doing so with a minimum of agreement within the House and with times that allow a useful result especially to savers, that is to say to those who have innocently suffered this situation and who ask for a positive response from the institutions.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-09-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-877.ana.u22	He's enlisted to speak Senator Laniece. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-09-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-877.ana.u23	Mr President, the critical situation of our banks - the last well-known incident refers to the Venetian banks - is a fil rouge that has gone through all the years of this legislature. The efforts to stabilise the banking system, which, in various ways, have dealt with the different crisis situations of our credit system, certainly had as its primary objective to introduce stricter and stricter management criteria, in order to avoid, as far as possible, the emergence of future critical elements. As we know, there are three major problems. The first is the increasing weight on the bank balance sheets of the deteriorated loans, the second problem is identified in a deterioration of profitability and, finally, there is an increasing need for recapitalisation. This required action to ensure adequate levels of liquidity, the restoration of financing capacity and, in addition, the definition of the necessary measures to strengthen banks' assets. It was certainly important to provide for the possibility of granting the State guarantee in respect of the liabilities of Italian credit institutions. It is an assumption of strong responsibility, which has partly returned confidence to the markets in the face of a condition of structural suffering, which would have been even more serious if exposed to a further devaluation of the loans in distress. At the same time, it was necessary to ensure that the level of provisions and collateral, in relation to the gross suffering we discussed earlier, was adequate. At European level, this is certainly open, firstly as regards the transparency of credit institutions' balance sheets and the need to promote a sound banking system. The policies put in place to positively affect banking crises have been adopted in line with the procedures for intervention made possible by the guidelines and provisions of the European Union, in particular with regard to the need to put in place decisive crisis interventions without recourse to public resources. Thus, with these constraints, through the Interbank Fund, the priority guarantee of deposits and, therefore, of accountants has been provided. 11:59 a.m. (LANIECE followed). It is clear that in Italy there is a particularly acute need to reform the sanctioning system in the presence of illegal and irregular behaviour by those who administer credit institutions and it is essential to strengthen our supervisory system. It is a decisive factor in restoring confidence to savers, a confidence that has certainly been severely affected by the systematic placement of high-risk financial instruments, if not fraudulently allocated securities by failing credit institutions, by irregularities and irresponsible behaviour adopted in violation of the rules proper to an orderly and transparent market. It is therefore more necessary than ever to identify the quickest and most concrete measures to protect savers. Firstly, the search for private resources must be supported, the results of which depend on the response of the markets and the evolution of the real economy; therefore, at least in part, sound banks must be freed from the mutual burden imposed by the institutions in crisis; finally, further losses must be avoided which would lead to greater and systematic subtraction of resources. These are the guidelines which must be implemented in the immediate phase and, even more so, in the medium term. In conclusion, we share both the urgency of the measures taken to this end, and the consideration that this path is necessarily gradual for the general stability of the banking system. It is therefore clear that this must take place with the awareness that this intervention must be structural and go deep in order to finally give stability to a strategic sector for the revival of our economy and in the maximum protection of all savers. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator Gasparri is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-09-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-877.ana.u24	Madam President, banking is going through our work like a karst river, which appears and disappears. Decrees law, interventions, buffers, appropriations and, now, also this just request - which I have signed, through the motion that Senator Augello has just presented - that, even for the external use of citizens, I would summarize as the demand for greater rigour towards the directors of failed banks and for greater protection of those who have been overwhelmed by various banking events. When the various measures and decrees were made, each time the punitive and more definitely sanctioning action was postponed to another stage. You see, the banking world has always aroused some distrust, almost like politics - and perhaps even more so - than in this field, alas, has earned high places in the hostility of the citizens. The banks have a reputation certainly not good, moreover it is a very delicate job that of the banker, who lends money that is not his, so he must do it with care. It is the savers who entrust their savings to the bank - hoping to make a profit, even if today interest rates are what they are - and then of course those who lend them to others must do so with the guarantees due. All this has not happened: one could speak hours - but here we do not have the time to do so - telling various things; I remember that in the previous legislature the president protempore of the ABI, who was also the president of the Monte dei Paschi di Siena, when there were some turbulent phases between 2010 and 2011, came to institutionally warn the group leaders - such I was at the time - of the storms approaching and also of the problems of the banking world. It warned us of the need for extraordinary measures and rehabilitation measures. We know how things went. The Government of the technicians arrived, which caused greater damage to the Republic than it should have avoided: think only of the rules on pensions. My political side has also denounced speculation, coup d'état and various maneuvers. It was seen that then Mussari, who as president of the Italian Banking Association (ABI), came to denounce the problems, knew more about these problems than we did. Why was he guilty of this somehow? Was he overwhelmed? Were you the protagonist, given the investigations and events that took place on the Mount of the Paschi? Mussari was therefore aware of things that we did not know because we were unaware of the various funds and of the various events. The chain of events continued and it would be easy to make controversy. I would like to open and close a parenthesis on something that we will resume elsewhere. Undersecretary Boschi, former Minister, has been criticized several times. Relatives are not, however, a fault and criminal responsibility is personal: let alone if we are not convinced of all this. But I remember all the controversy about the Bank Etruria, the meetings, the books; I think of Ferruccio De Bortoli, who wrote important things and evoked testimonies. There has been no complaint against a newspaper which, moreover, is highly critical. However, I believe, Mr Zanda, that Mr Boschi is also somewhat unlucky about supervision. It has nothing to do with the banks, but I read a note from the Presidency of the Council a few days ago that severely censored the work of the Commission for International Adoptions, which our former colleague, Mr Della Monica, dealt with. This is a note by President Gentiloni in which it is stated that there are no documents required and international treaties. What is the government authority that at that time was to monitor the work of the Commission for International Adoptions? Mr Boschi, who is therefore a little unlucky. Together with Senator Giovanardi, I put a question on this subject, but we were told that everything was fine in the adoption committee. Italy is therefore weak in the supervision of minors and banks. I shall conclude by saying that it is good to approve the motion, and it is also good to find, if possible, agreements. The revenge of politics is that today, in the chair of the Banking Association, there is a politician, former Mr Patuelli, a wise and balanced person I value and appreciate. We politicians have been reproached and criticized by everyone, even by bankers who told us that we understood nothing. But they needed Patuelli, who is also a banker because otherwise he would not have had that position, but that I know as a political exponent. It is then a revenge of politics to see today a banker, former politician, preside over the ABI. Patuelli on yesterday's Messenger gave a nice interview in which he invites caution with respect to the Commission about which Senator Barani and others spoke before. It takes caution; the management of savings is not trivial. I wonder, however, as a last thought, dear Senator Augello, if perhaps we should not have added a half-line in the motion, proposing to change the Governor of the Bank of Italy. He's discussing it and it's up to the government. I would have a series of better performances of Visco to talk about, from the events of the Cuneo to Monte dei Paschi and more. I would also like to talk about Visco and the popular banks. Then let's think about Zonin. Let us stone politics, for Christ's sake, but we are then faced with bankers and entrepreneurs like Zonin, who is still in his manners and luxurious hermitages. I want to solidarity with the League, which is absent today. We have seen this immediate fury, the seizure and confiscation of 48 million euros, which I do not believe are in the availability of the League. I therefore want to solidarity with the League and I hope that the judiciary will be able to limit any liability even in terms of financial value to credible dimensions and not to 48 million euros. The seizure of the League is shameful, when no one has been the subject of measures, neither the banks, nor the banks, nor anything else. Easy handcuffs in all cases. There's a Woodcock for everyone. Zonin didn't find a Woodcock and was lucky to find one is a disgrace. But I do not say a Woodcock, but a middle one, that was normal; instead Zonin circulates and Visco did not supervise. I believe that the Bank of Italy should be the subject not only of shifts, but also, perhaps, of some handcuffs, since there have been many. I therefore believe that it would be incredible to confirm at the summit of the Bank of Italy who has dealt with inezie and has not monitored on serious issues. The savings must be protected above all by authorities such as the Bank of Italy. Dear Senator Augello, it is true that today the balances have changed - there is the European Central Bank and the chain of powers has changed - and I have signed your motion, but given the action of Visco, the impunity of Zonin and many other events, I would have subscribed to proposals much more severe and drastic. I hope that the Government, in the work of comparing the various motions presented by the Groups, will not miss the opportunity to give a signal, because the saver is stunned by what happened. You can say, as Renzi did, "Who are you?" and bring insults to the debate, but we need more respect for the people who have suffered because of these banking crises and more severity for all the Zonin and Mussari who have created disastrous situations. At least a retirement should be provided. I think Visco should go to jail and not home, but - I repeat - at least he should be sent home. Any confirmation of Visco would be an alarming message for the markets, think about it. [[Applause from Senators Bonfrisco, Quagliarello and Razzi]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-09-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-877.ana.u25	She's enlisted to speak Senator Blondo. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-09-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-877.ana.u26	Madam President, today we are debating motions from which it is clear and clear what the work of this Parliament is. Motion No 813 concerns a bill that has been passed with the imposition of trust in the Chamber of Deputies. As has been said before by all my colleagues, there has been an absolute disregard for a very important amendment, which was intended to increase sanctions for those responsible for the disasters and failures of banks, which led this Government to have to implement an agreement. 12:14 p.m. (Follow BLUNDO). I want to tell you exactly what happened. In recent months there has been a transfer to Banca Intesa Sanpaolo of assets worth 45.9 billion euros, consisting mainly of loans to banks (3.8 billion), credits in Bonis towards customers (30.1 billion), financial assets (8.8 billion) and for the remainder of various types. The credit group led by the managing director Carlo Messina has also acquired liabilities for a total of 51,3 billion euros, composed of debts to the banks (9,3 billion) and to the customers (25,8 billion) and securities in circulation 11,8 billion. The imbalance between assets and liabilities acquired represents a claim from Intesa against the liquidations and has been provisionally quantified in 5.4 billion euros. This adds to what had already happened for Banca Etruria and CariChieti. It is clear that we are working with other priorities, otherwise we would not have been here today to discuss motions that go to heal what was a priority not recognized by this Parliament since the treatment of the measure mentioned in the Chamber of Deputies. Colleagues, we have forgotten that banks do a priority job of good management of citizens' savings. Banks don't have their own money, but they have staff who need to know how to handle those people's savings. Banks must be a service to the population. In Italy not only do we not guarantee the distinction between commercial banks and banks that make financial interventions, but we continue to protect those who are wrong. What, then, had to be done first, ladies and gentlemen, was precisely the reconnaissance of all the sanctioning legislation to understand if the same was adequate to put a brake on those who work without an appropriate correspondence to what is their commitment and role within a bank. After the House has withdrawn the most important amendment and that the Senate has imposed with confidence a measure that did not have such cares, we are today discussing the substance and the PD itself asks in the motion to make a reconnaissance of all the current legislation. We therefore believe that the adoption of a motion in this respect is essential: it is very important that it is considered and it is even more important to encourage within schools the possibility of deepening certain competences in the financial sector. Above all, it is essential that supervision and appropriate sanctions are ensured. The motions on the agenda, including the one presented by the 5 Star Movement, call for almost all this commitment, but above all we need a Government that takes seriously the situation, that is not connected to the banks, that has free hands and that is able to bring back to the right extent and in the correct dimension the function and role of the banks so that citizens are no longer cheated, harassed, cheated and mocked. [[Applause from the M5S Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-09-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-877.ana.u27	Senator Santini is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-09-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-877.ana.u28	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the motions before us today are being discussed at a particular time when many facts have already happened, in the face of the great vulnerability of the national and European financial system, as a result of the long crisis that began in 2007. In addition to the very recent decree-law concerning the Venetian banks, there have been significant passages in recent months concerning the action of the European Union, which has approved many interventions aimed at defining a stricter discipline regarding the capital requirements required of the banks in order to guarantee their solvency and has gradually built the architecture of the banking union, creating a single supervisory system. This new system, albeit with some problematic aspects relating to the compression of national authorities' spaces, has allowed the harmonization of the criteria previously referred to the national authorities. As regards the resolution of bank crises, a discipline has been defined that can counter the distorting effects of massive bailouts on public budgets with different instruments. These measures, many of which are currently being implemented, are helping to strengthen the national banking system - I am referring to the various measures - although the high size of outstanding loans and the impact of the above-mentioned European regulations on resolution make it necessary to increase the resilience of the system. With a quick summary, since the end of 2015, Italy has experimented, in agreement with the European authorities, with three options for intervention in banking matters: the so-called burden sharing, with resolution, sale of the banks resolved and reimbursement in the widest possible form of the holders of subordinated securities, applied in the cases of Banca Marche, CariFerrara, Banca Etruria and CariChieti; the precautionary recapitalisation with company continuity and significant refreshment of the holders of the securities as in the case of the Monte dei Paschi di Siena; the administrative liquidation forced with division of suffering and disposal to a third party, with public resources and restoration in a similar form to the previous ones, applied in the cases of the two Venetian banks. In relation to the interventions described above, a non-secondary problem emerged, which highlighted serious and intransparent behaviour and a marked tendency to excessive risk by the directors of these banks that in many cases had as victims, unfortunately, retail customers, small accountants and shareholders of the same banks. These issues will be at the heart of the work of the Commission of Inquiry in the process of being set up. There are many cases of financial instruments placed by banks in breach of the obligation to inform or correctly execute the transaction by entities authorised to provide financial investment services in the two banks. In the case of the Venetian banks in particular, the bank's customer savers found themselves, despite them, shareholders of banks or bond holders. In many cases the banks have conditioned the provision of loans to customers - real estate and liquidity loans, among which the so-called shareholder loans, reserved precisely for members - to the purchase of own shares or convertible bonds, especially during the period in which the capital increase operations were carried out in the years 2013 and 2014. The practice pursued by these banks was to place securities with credit applicants in order to achieve the capital increase necessary to comply with certain capital ratios. Essentially, there are absolutely untransparent behaviour of directors, a great lack of supervision and the fact that this has occurred calls for a change of legislation. That is why the motion sets out certain steps which we consider to be fundamental: firstly, as mentioned above, it is necessary, in a very short time, to reconvene the whole of the penal and administrative rules laid down in our legal system for the cases mentioned above in order to verify their adequacy, taking into account also the new regulatory framework at European level. Secondly, after this recognition, we believe it is essential to introduce measures to link, in the cases of banks subject to extraordinary administration and compulsory winding-up, the exercise of liability actions against directors to the imposition of sanctions against them for unlawful and fraudulent conduct. In this case, it is also important to act with that system which in the bankruptcy law is called revocation, with great attention to dilatory measures put in place by some administrators; it was mentioned the case, very frequent, of those who separated their assets from the responsibility in the imminence of the imposition of sanctions: I believe that the revocation of these acts provided for in the bankruptcy law can be carried out even in the cases we have talked about. On the other hand, there is a need to strengthen the rules aimed at preventing future placement of the most risky financial instruments with retail customers who cannot understand their actual risk. A second fundamental step is to act, in agreement with the institutions of the European Union and in compliance with the European Union's regulatory framework on State aid, to find a solution to the central problem that stops the development and the normal functioning of our credit system: the deteriorated credits. In this context, we believe it is essential that a special vehicle be set up to assist banks in the work of cleaning up their balance sheets, capable of creating a market for deteriorated loans whose orderly demobilization, in the medium term, constitutes the main road to restoring resources to the real economy and restoring credit capacity to banks. Finally, it is not secondary to the issue mentioned in our motion, namely the promotion and dissemination of financial education among citizens, because the events we have seen have involved many savers, with significant losses of capital invested, highlighting in many cases, in addition to the serious deficiencies of administrators and supervision, a fundamental unpreparedness with regard to the financial products purchased and the total lack of awareness of their high level of actual risk. That is what we are proposing in our motion for a resolution, and we are calling for it to be approved. [[Applause from Senators Bonfrisco and Gianluca Rossi.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-09-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-877.ana.u29	The debate is closed. I call the representative of the Government, and I would ask him to give his opinion on the motions put forward.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-09-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-877.ana.u30	Mr President, the motions put forward essentially address two problems: the responsibility of administrators and the protection of savers. Frankly, on the responsibility of administrators the motions are very similar to each other, if I think of the first two points of motions no. 812 (text 3) and 813, or in point 1 of motions Nos 5, 7, 8, 8, 8, 8, 8, 8, 8, 8, 8, 8, 8, 8, 8, 8, 8, 8, 8, 8, 8, 8, 8, 8, 8, 8, 8, 8, 8, 8, 8, 8, 8, 8, 8, 8, 8, 8, 8, 8, 8, 8, 8, 8, 8, 8, 8, 8, 8, 8, 8, 8, 8, 8, 8, 8, 8, 8, 8, 8, 8, 8, 8, 8, 8, 8, 8, 8, 8, 8, 8, 8, 8, 8, 8, 8, 8, 8, 8, 8, 8, 8, 8, 8, 8, 8, 8, 8, 8, 8, 8, 8, 8, 8, 8, 8, 8, 8, 8, 8, 8, 8, 8, 8, 8, 8, 8, 8, 8, 8, 8, 8, 8, 8, 8, 8, 8, 8, 8, 8, 8, 8, 8, 8, 8, 8, 8, 8, 8, 8, 8, 8, 8, 8, 8, 8, 8, 8, 8, 8, 8, 8, 8, 8, 8, 8, 8, 8, 8, 8, 8, 8, 8, 8, 8, 8, 8, 8, 8, 8, 8, 8, 8, 8, 8, 8, 8, 8, 8, 8, 8, 8, 8, 8, 8, 8, 8, 8, 8, 8, 8, 8, 8, 8, 8, 8, 8, 8, 8, 8, 8, 8, 8, 8, 8, 8, 8, 8, 8, 8, 8, 8, 8, 8, 8, 8, 8, 8, 8, 8, 8, 8, They are written in a different way, with different accents, but they all deal with the theme. I would like to refer to motion 816 (text 2), first signed by Senator Guerra, who makes this text quite clear. The problem then arises of whether a point of understanding is worth finding. Moreover, Senator Fornaro rightly said in his speech that the strength of a motion on this point is directly proportional to the extent of the senate's consent. There is a second, more delicate point, which concerns the protection of savers, because it has a great deal to do with European rules and the European framework of reference. On this subject, also present in all motions, the formula on which I think we can work is the one contained in the first-signed motion of Senator De Petris, who does not distinguish between one bank and the other. If the Senate agrees, I would therefore propose that we work for as long as is necessary to achieve as much convergence as possible with the premises I have mentioned. I confirm the consistency that was said; I refer, in order to have a picture, to motion 816 (text 2) on the part relating to administrators (we will then see the text) and I propose that we find a formula on the other point as well. My willingness to compose a solution as united as possible is all there; then in the debate on the substance we will have the opportunity to carry out the in-depth discussions. If the Senate agrees, I'm available, otherwise I'll give the opinions.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-09-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-877.ana.u31	Mr Secretary, the proposal is not unexpected, but I would like to hear the views of the proposers. As undersecretary Baretta spoke of the necessary time, I note that in banking matters parliamentary times are very long, but this does not depend on the government but on us. The hope is that the Conference of Leaders will be able to assess a sufficiently rapid definition of the conclusion of the discussion, also in the light of the attempt that Secretary Baretta undertakes to promote. This decision, however, will be the responsibility of the Conference of Leaders, because in the afternoon we will move on to other subjects and legislative measures and the subsequent sessions reserved for motions provide for other topics. We should therefore, if necessary, proceed to include the item in the agenda, where the Conference of the Leaders should be guided in this way. I'm saying that as a premise, because times depend on the Senate.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-09-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-877.ana.u32	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-09-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-877.ana.u33	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-09-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-877.ana.u34	AUGELLO (FL (Id-PL, PLI)). Mr President, as you said, this proposal does not come to us completely unexpectedly and we obviously believe it is reasonable, since the motions arise, especially on matters such as these, in order to achieve concrete results. The only problem is the timing, in the sense that we do not escape, from recent memory, a long dragging of these motions in the weeks and then in the months of waiting. For us, it is very good to wait for this proposal, which we will carefully and rigorously evaluate, because for us, however, there are two points that cannot be overcome, not in form but in substance, the problem is that we will actually get to a vote in a very short time, very reasonable: in a week at most. We must conclude this affair, also because the last tram passing through to introduce these rules is the budget law and the government will also need a time of elaboration. It's okay, but in the times I indicated.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-09-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-877.ana.u35	I repeat that the timing will depend on the decisions that the Senate will take at the Conference of the Leaders, therefore, clearly, its Leader will interpret his wish. I therefore consider that a request for a meeting of the Group Leader to include the item in an undefined calendar is included.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-09-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-877.ana.u36	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-09-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-877.ana.u37	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-09-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-877.ana.u38	Carraro (FI-PdL XVII). Mr President, we adhere to this approach without forgetting, however, that we have great doubts about the Government's willingness to arrive at a solution. None of us can forget that the rapporteur, in agreement with the Government, had tabled an amendment on the measure taken by the Venetian banks in the Chamber of Deputies in Commission VI which would have made our work this morning unnecessary, because it already contained measures. Afterwards, the attitude of the Government suddenly changed: in the Chamber of Deputies, this hypothesis was missed; in the Senate, many oppositions proposed the amendment that was exactly the same as the amendment presented by the rapporteur and made by the Government in Commission VI to the Chamber of Deputies. We had a debate today and Mr Baretta spoke. The Undersecretary has my full personal esteem, but we cannot forget that this Government on this subject specifically has a great ability to skate and, that is, to go ahead and overcome, bypassing it, the issue. Having said that, if there is no other way, we will proceed as proposed, but, please, let us come to a conclusion because it is useful for Parliament to express itself on this matter, although I am sure that the only hope that our motions will become concrete is that in the next elections the majority will change and there will be someone less willing to put a pitiful veil on serious errors made by administrators of these banks gone into disrepute. [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-09-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-877.ana.u39	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-09-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-877.ana.u40	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-09-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-877.ana.u41	DE PETRIS (Misto-SI-SEL). Mr President, the proposal to make an effort to sum up is quite reasonable, as long as it does not go away from certain points that we and others have mentioned. There is, however, concern that I will be taking the motion for a resolution on the agenda no later than next Tuesday at the Conference of the Leaders. If we do not want these motions to be made, even if they are united, the end of other motions, we have only the budget law in which we can incorporate amendments and rules. I therefore hope that all the Group leaders will agree that there is an urgent need to approve these motions and to include them in the work - I repeat - at the latest on Tuesday next week. [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-09-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-877.ana.u42	It is true that this will depend on the decision of the group leader.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-09-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-877.ana.u43	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-09-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-877.ana.u44	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-09-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-877.ana.u45	WAR (Art. 1-MDP). Mr President, we also support the proposal by Mr Baretta, who we share on the subject and also on the right purpose of seeking maximum sharing on the subject, since we are starting from a set of motions which put these very problematic and very interesting aspects of the whole country in a similar way, if not even the same. I agree, however, with the desire, which has already been expressed, to make it clear that there must already be a commitment from all the groups in this House to ensure that a conclusion is reached. So, Mr President, I would ask you explicitly to take responsibility for making President Grasso aware of the opportunity to convene a Conference of the Leaders, or that the next Conference of the Leaders devote themselves quickly to this issue in order to ensure that the final decision is scheduled in good time, i.e. next Tuesday.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-09-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-877.ana.u46	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-09-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-877.ana.u47	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-09-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-877.ana.u48	Mr Capelletti (M5S). Mr President, the 5 Star Movement is not opposed to this request for suspension, especially if it bears fruit in a motion on which there may be the convergence of the Senate Assembly. However, I would also like to point out that this is the second time that the Senate has met to discuss this matter and we associate ourselves with remembering the need to do so quickly. Now, it is true that the Conference of Leaders will have to decide for a new inclusion on the agenda of this motion, but if, in the meantime - and here I agree with the request of those who have spoken before me - a proposal from the Government and the majority, on which this sharing could be possible, even at the Conference of Leaders, it would be easier to find convergence on the timetable for next Tuesday.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-09-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-877.ana.u49	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-09-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-877.ana.u50	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-09-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-877.ana.u51	MARINO Mauro Maria (PD). Mr President, I would just like to welcome the proposal made by Mr Baretta, as it seems to me to be a useful form of openness to dialogue on the part of the Government towards Parliament, given the issue, its importance and its sensitivity. Rather than taking shareable parts of the motions (because, reading the texts, there are many parts that are common basis of these different motions), it is possible, in a precise and careful way, to arrive at a text shared as - and I quote what Senator Fornaro said - the force of a motion is directly proportional to the breadth of the forces that appreciate it. The conditions exist, there is the willingness of the Government and I understand, from the speeches made, that there can be a cordial entente among the Leaders to arrive at the final vote already Tuesday next week. There is therefore an opportunity to do well and in a shared way what could not have been done in the debate in the Commission: the amendments concerning this part, which we had discussed at a complex night sitting, there is the possibility of developing them in a more articulate way with the sharing and availability of the Government.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-09-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-877.ana.u52	Colleagues, the situation seems clear to me. The speeches by President Guerra, President De Petris, President Cappelletti, Senator Carraro and President Mauro Marino converge on this opportunity. Obviously, the Government, which in the person of the Undersecretary Baretta has also undertaken to verify the possible summaries and then to be able to express its opinion, will do so in a timely manner. Mr. Undersecretary, this is true regardless of the timetable, the fixation of which is the responsibility of the Senate itself. I will then represent the Presidency with the need to verify the appropriate insertions, since the invitation in this direction has been choral but we have to make the necessary procedural steps. Therefore, the Government will act independently of the timetable, which I too hope will be swift, because the elements have all been clarified and put on the table by the debate. I shall then refer the continuation of the debate on motions for resolutions to another sitting.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-09-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-877.ana.u53	The motions, questions and questions received by the Presidency will be published in Annex B to today's report. I remember that the Senate will return to meet in public today, at 4.30 p.m., with the agenda already printed and distributed. The sitting was closed at 12.40 a.m.
