ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-751.ana.u1	The sitting was opened at 16.32 a.m. The Minutes shall be read. Mr Volpoli, Secretary, read the Minutes of the afternoon sitting of 26 January. PRESIDENT. - The debate is Since there were no comments, the Minutes were approved.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-751.ana.u2	The list of senators on leave and absent on assignment received from the Senate, as well as further communications to the Assembly, will be published in Annex B to today's Minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-751.ana.u3	I would warn you that qualified votes can be taken in the course of today's sitting by electronic means. Therefore, from this moment the period of 20 minutes from the notice provided for in Article 119, paragraph 1, of the Regulation (at 16,34 hours) begins.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-751.ana.u4	Ladies and gentlemen, the Committees on Finance and Constitutional Affairs have not yet completed the examination of the decree-laws for the protection of savings in the credit sector and the extension of deadlines on today's agenda. Therefore, let's move on to the continuation of the discussion of the bill on cyberbullying.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-751.ana.u5	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-751.ana.u6	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-751.ana.u7	Montevecchi (M5S). Madam President, it seems to me that you have explained what will be the timetable for this week's work or today's agenda. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. The agenda. Montevecchi (M5S). Well, I do not think I have heard the information requested from Minister Padoan. Since we read from the press agencies what we had already partly feared last week, namely that the intention is to exhaust the request for information, which had been voted on in this House, on Thursday afternoon during the question time, I would like to draw the Presidency's attention to the fact that a question time is not equal to a disclosure; that in this House information was requested; that tomorrow is 1 February, the date by which Padoan will have to give an answer, to what we understand, and that therefore the disclosure must be made at least tomorrow, because it cannot take place during the question time on 2 February afternoon, in different ways, without even giving us the guarantee that the corrective maneuver requested is the subject of the question time. I repeat: there has been a request voted on by this House, so we call for a request voted on by this branch of Parliament to be upheld, otherwise it is useless for us to continue to waste time here because obviously the will of the Upper House of this Parliament counts as a map, like the maneuver that Renzi made with the budget law for 2017. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-751.ana.u8	We take note of your solicitation, Senator Montevecchi. At the moment, the understanding, even with the Leaders, is that of the question time. The Assembly has resolved but we need an agreement with the Government. The letter is not yet there, we have not been notified because it has to be notified in Brussels. [[Senator Airola's comments.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-751.ana.u9	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-751.ana.u10	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-751.ana.u11	Montevecchi (M5S). President. - There was no understanding of the group leaders, there was an exploratory debate. I was contacted in the exploratory phase to see if there was a willingness on the part of the Groups to replace the information with the question time. We also pointed out in the exploratory phase that we were not available to replace the information with a question time for the reasons I have just clarified. At this point, I would first of all like to understand what are the leaders who have given the willingness to replace the information with a question time, why we have not been informed of this decision in good time and on the basis of which article of the Rules of Procedure or the practice of passing a decision voted by the High Chamber of Parliament by an entirely informal procedure, because I do not find any formality or publicity of everything that you are telling me should have happened. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-751.ana.u12	Obviously, Senator Montevecchi, the intervention of the Government in the Chamber is the result of an agreement between the Senate and the Government. The Government is willing to turn the question time into an information report and to this end tomorrow there will be the Leaders, but obviously the Government is instructing the dossier and also the answer to be sent to Brussels. [[Senator Airola's comments.]] That said, if the problem is to have an information, this may be Thursday afternoon instead of the question time and tomorrow there will be the group leaders. AIROLA (M5S). It was decided by the Government; it is a clear decision. Let us vote on it in this House. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator Airola, since we don't make a group leader every five minutes, the group leaders were contacted and on this basis the government was absent to make a statement, because obviously some groups, including his, were not willing to limit themselves to the question time.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-751.ana.u13	The next item is the continuation of the debate on draft law No 1261-B, already approved by the Senate and amended by the House of Deputies. I would remind you that during the afternoon sitting on 26 January the rapporteur carried out the oral report and the general discussion took place, the replies of the rapporteur and the representative of the Government and the examination of the articles, in the text including the amendments made by the House of Deputies, as proposed by the Commission.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-751.ana.u14	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-751.ana.u15	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-751.ana.u16	Mr Bencini (Misto-Idv). Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, as Senator Palermo, rapporteur for the draft law in question, has reminded us at the third reading, this is a measure which is not technically, but essentially a framework, in the sense that it provides for a framework within which other people will have to move. Parliament must create the conditions for social actors to network and start working on active policies on the subject. One point that I find fundamental is that of prevention through an education, which I call sentimental education: it is important that young people learn to relate properly between young people, but also between young people and adults. We are a society that shows more and more its aggressive side and of prevarication through denigration of the other; we are credited discrediting the other; we are increasingly exclusive, so it is essential to teach to relate, to teach the good use of the media in a friendly, friendly way, as we say, in the sense of useful and correct. Too often social media are used to attack sentimentally fomenting hatred, writing fake truths, because behind the keyboard many feel the king of the savannah, but the real one, the lion, is unfortunately on the verge of extinction, while the ones on the web multiply: the famous girl of the "webete." We must find a correct way of interacting, first and foremost we adults, in order to be able to pass a correct message and a correct communicative channel to our children. The school has a great value and a great duty to impart a correct education and implement the ability of students facilitating the implementation of proper relationships for a reasoned use of social and media in general. The objective of combating bullying and cyberbullying is certainly important and we must really act at three hundred and sixty degrees, so it is essential to act on the formation of adults and even children, to educate in a responsible way the use of these new means that now pervade our existence. The school is the focus, but it must not be less the managers of the Network, as Senator Mattesini has also reminded us in general discussion, to which it would be advisable to adopt rules and codes of self-discipline in order to direct the user towards a good use of the means. Last, but only in the decalogue, the great value of prevention and control that the Postal Police can do. This law needs more actors to stage a good representation that can be replicated over time because, as they say, you go faster on your own but together you go further: precisely for this reason, we in Italy of Values believe that together you can go farther, reaching the fixed half. Consequently, we will vote in favour of this measure.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-751.ana.u17	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-751.ana.u18	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-751.ana.u19	LIUZZI (CoR). Madam President, the draft law before us on the phenomena of bullying and cyberbullying, which we are about to dismiss, beyond its effectiveness or otherwise, beyond the actual need for the rule that must arise from a specific need, must lead to a reflection on two main lines. The first guideline is that the legislator must regulate a particular area, that of communication, through the Internet in this specific case, in a weighted way, providing, starting from the causes that have determined the legislative intervention, the effects that the proposed norm produces both in terms of the positive effectiveness of the reduction of the phenomena that if desired to sanction, and in terms of protection that is to be strengthened, with provisions that do not affect the constitutional freedoms of individuals, be they of expression or economic initiative. The second reflection is that of education, starting from school but not only, to the correct use of constitutional freedom of expression, especially in the presence of a society that every day becomes more technological, more connected with the rest of the world. Our young people are bombarded with life and communication patterns that often ignore the sensibilities of others. The injury of such feelings, even if inflicted only once through social media, can cause damage, and it has already happened. As for the Internet, Madam President, it would appear from the tone and content of the general debate that this House has been discussing, that the House is afraid of the new media, particularly the network and social media. I remember the expression of negative amazement and regret in the words of Fëdor Dostoevsky, when he indicated in the morning newspaper reading the vomiting of humanity. And what should we exclaim in the flow of the many likes on Facebook about the filths that would not deserve to identify mankind? We meet Friedrich Hegel, who wrote on the function of the German press at the end of the eighteenth century: The morning prayer of modern man is the reading of the newspaper. It allows us to place ourselves daily in our historical world. We must then look at the greats of modern thought, listen to the great thinkers of the West in order to recover reason and counter the sleep of reason. Well, this bill, Madam President, has many flaws, many issues that are not well addressed, starting with the limited funding made available to achieve the aim of educational and pedagogical promotion of the Internet in schools. But another problem is what has also been highlighted by Senator Giovanardi's intervention, since the text makes it possible to be part of the Commission which will have to decide on the use of those funds also to associations which have their beliefs in gender discrimination. We also saw a dramatic reversal by this House when, alongside that of the rapporteur, Mr Palermo, the opposite voice was included in a part of that PD which today supports policies aimed at overcoming the kind that is not congenial to us; similarly, from this point of view, it seemed to me to be the attitude of the Government. Despite this, we believe that the bill before us represents a first step towards protecting against the phenomena of bullying on the net. It had to be done and it was time to do so - be careful - not only because the legislator moved on the wave of popular emotion born from the facts of cyberbullying that the chronicles have reported, but because the anarchy of the network must be governed so that it becomes the means of development and education imagined by its creators and not an instrument in which dangers can nest themselves capable of conditioning people's lives, so much so as to push them to suicide. For these reasons, the Group of Conservators and Reformists Directorate of Italy will vote in favour of the bill. [[Applause from the CoR Group and Senator Giovanardi.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-751.ana.u20	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-751.ana.u21	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-751.ana.u22	STEFANI (LN-Aut). Madam President, unfortunately, in recent times there has been a general increase in acts which are of real violence and intimidation. They are all acts pertaining to the phenomenon of bullying, which is present especially in schools. Bullying may seem, at first, a nice form of hazing, perhaps a way to treat freshmen. No, instead: it is turning into a dangerous and violent phenomenon; very dangerous, because it is rampant in schools, if you think that almost 50% of the children denounce acts of bullying within schools. They are bullies that isolate children and children and make them feel excluded from the context of the school, which should make them grow. But bullying has now taken on a disturbing profile, which is hardly arginable: cyberbullying. A bullying that uses the computer system, a new form of aggression, violence and intimidation, unfortunately the result of an attitude that has been consolidated for years in the society of our children. Unfortunately the technological development that has led to the use of social, chat of WhatsApp and more has not even led to cultural progress. In fact, this system, not creating self-defensive barriers, has led to irresponsible use of the instrument. That progress that should be at the service of culture and children, to allow them to have more social contacts, thus becomes a dangerous and insidious weapon, which can be used by anyone who, after creating a profile with a photo and a nickname, feels legitimate to say everything. But this, gentlemen, isn't just about cyberbullying against the kids. Just look at the political comments on social media: now the use of social media seems a way to be able to say anything, because you hide behind a click, without realizing that in reality you are identifiable and highlightable just when you insult or defame other people. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group]] However, at a time when young people who are forming in their personalities are ridiculed and villainized (so with all their weaknesses and the desire to be absolutely part of their group or tribe, as they say), they become isolated children and children. This is a very serious threat that we have not been able to face and which the social partners themselves do not know how to cope with. But it is not a problem that concerns only the instrument; it is a problem that arises from an almost epochal social discomfort. The discomfort of the children within the school is not a little and it is not born just because there are problems in the school institution, but because there are problems also within the family institution. An individual, before being part of a society, is part of his family and learns to stay in it. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group]] Later, he learns to stay inside the school, which is a little more extensive, and then in society. If relationships begin to crack into the family system, an avalanche results in a disastrous effect and, therefore, the phenomenon of cyberbullying ends up being nothing but the mirror of society. Speaking of the degradation of society, it seems to repeat the same words always, while we are actually talking about a crisis in our society and the phenomena of cyberbullying must be tackled with energy. For this reason, measures such as the one we are discussing are well designed to define systems and measures to tackle the problem of cyberbullying. Perhaps someone will see too many expectations in this measure, almost dreams: we are thinking of intervening on education provided by the school, as well as on prevention measures and training aimed at educators. But you have to find the tools to block the problem and somewhere you have to start. When a boy does bullying, even the school must take steps that, in the case of cyberbullying, must be serious, it cannot be enough just a pat on the boy's shoulder. We are talking about people who become like this - pass me the expression - of small criminals, because when you go to destroy someone and isolate them, a criminal action takes place. We need to set up state-of-the-art measures to stop bullying in the computer world. It won't be easy. For this reason, it is important to block videos that become viral and all those insults that, once on the net, become difficult to remove. We must have the cooperation of those who run the instrument. Above all, however, we must become aware of this and in this respect we welcome all the works that must seek to increase culture. However, if we look closely at this virtual world, we will notice that it has found more and more space in a context in which children are more and more alone and cannot even create interpersonal relationships and we all have the responsibility - let's really say - for these results. [[Applause from Senator Candiani.]] We must be aware of the mistakes that have been made in recent years. Let's face it: we have renounced references, values; we have destroyed the school institution, we have attacked the institution of the family and we have distorted it. We have imposed relativistic ideological dimensions, in which in the end the individual no longer finds himself; the children are born in contexts where the same parents are disoriented. Think about it: Are we so sure that it really depends on parents going to work? I'd like to ask who among us saw Dad as a child: who saw Dad going to work looking after him? What matters is the quality of time devoted to children, it is the model that moves them. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group]] They hear professors say that some contexts, in our schools, are such that they are not able to manage the classes in which they enter, classes in which children join their forces and if the stupidity of one is stupidity, the stupidity of one hundred people is a power. I wonder if that's a problem with that professor or how those kids grew up. We have to think about values, we really have to teach ourselves to believe in something, in some absolute value. We have to make these kids believe! [[Applause from the Divine Senator]] School, family, relationships are important; respect is fundamental, education is fundamental. They are not old values, which may seem to date back to the pre-war period, they are the only way to make children grow and make them become good citizens and maybe bring them into these classrooms and have respect, balance and ability to dialogue, instead of creating violence on violence. Because these kids, when they don't know what to do anymore, use violence because they get bored. For this reason, measures such as the one we are debating will well come and we will therefore vote in favour of it, hoping that we will continue along this path, because these phenomena should not even be a civil society. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group and Senator Albertini.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-751.ana.u23	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-751.ana.u24	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-751.ana.u25	GIOVANARDI (GAL (GS, PPI, M, Id, E-E, MPL)). Madam President, unfortunately, we are on the same page: we are faced with a measure that should find the consensus of all, that here in the Senate, at second reading, had been amended with the agreement of all, because the objective should be the fight against bullying and cyberbullying, and then, suddenly, instead, we witness a surprise hijacking in relation to the objective, as I think rarely happened in Parliament. The rapporteur and the government gave a favourable opinion on an amendment by Mr Malan, who was simply of common sense and reported the text to what we had already voted in the Senate, with the aim of combating bullying and cyberbullying. What did the Government say - and I would like to thank the Undersecretary, Mrs D'Onghia - before our amendment was rejected and the rapporteur's unmistakably changed his mind? Undersecretary D'Onghia said that in the text we were talking about associations with proven experience in promoting the rights of children and adolescents. The government agreed with the rapporteur to accept our amendment, because all the associations that deal with the rights of children and adolescents would be guaranteed without excluding anyone, because there are so many associations that also deal with other rights. The text concerned sexual orientation, race, disability, was about everything. But no, a hand, in the Senate, wanted to put the problem of gender, gender associations, such as the "Mario Mieli" that still collaborates with the Italian Government - and we asked the Undersecretary to know until - that it is dedicated to a gentleman who was chanting to pedophilia, who authorized pedophilia, co-prophagia, sexual relations between father and son and mother and daughter, and still collaborates with the Government. We have previously had the UNAR booklets sent to schools (remember?) with the two male penguins making the egg, explained to the children of three or four years. In fact, this is the thrust of entering schools not to wage war on bullying and cyberbullying, but to introduce - as my colleague, Mr Lo Giudice, has honestly said - something that goes beyond others. Here it is a question of educating - always with the question of cyberbullying - such a theory, which is not sexual orientation, is what has been brought into schools, but it is denied to exist. There is no such theory, but it has books printed, introduced them into schools and explains that two males can bring a child into the world. They will then tell me how they explain to a four-year-old how this is possible, unless the child is bought, like that gentleman today, that lawyer who bought it and was sent back to trial, of course falsifying a whole series of cards. So what's going on? It happens that something that was logical, that was natural and obvious becomes an ideological presupposition to do something different. And it does not escape you that, to the funds already allocated, 200,000 more will be added that will go, in all the Italian Provinces, to those who carry out this battle, but not only to those who are rightly engaged, specifically, on the front of bullying. In fact, those who know the schools know that bullying consists in making fun of the person because he has a different skin color, or in the fact that the embarrassed girl, because maybe she has a physicist, is cut off from the class dinners and suffers heavily this situation; it is targeting the handicapped, the stuttering. There are many cases in which the pack vents against the person who is in trouble. Then why would you want to introduce this element? Why want to continue this ideological struggle that has nothing to do with homophobia? Here again I hear my fellow Members, who have changed the opinion of the rapporteur, talking about homophobia and I think Scalfarotto who wanted to indict and refer to judgment, for his statement, Giovanardi, because he has just said that in all worlds, both homosexual and heterosexual, there are right behaviors and wrong behaviors, because there are people who are wrong everywhere. And that would have been homophobia, according to him. I think, for the umpteenth time, you've had the wrong surgery here. As with road accidents: we had been good, we had removed, in the Senate, all those elements on road accidents that would have transformed the norm not in the fight against road pirates, but against those who have the misfortune of having a road accident, even if they go very slowly, and they see themselves ruined their lives. Now everyone writes, starting with the Court of Cassation, that the law is completely wrong, but we, at first, had done it right: it was the Government that then imposed us to modify it in the wrong way in which it was modified. This time, I have to say that the Government behaved well, because in front of the rapporteur's unruly turnaround, it tried to explain, while returning to the Assembly, that rejecting the amendment was a serious political error, it was to use a right instrument designed to fight an ignoble phenomenon, bending it to an ideological colonization. A majority rejected the amendment and that is why, at least as far as I am concerned, I shall abstain on this measure. Because we are not just talking to the people in this House; we are also talking to millions and millions of Italians, families and parents who are tired of being mocked, yes they are being mocked, through this colonization. Last thing I want to point out - and I would like the Undersecretary to say this to the Minister - is that I am aware that the Minister, when he was a Member of Parliament, together with other colleagues, had presented a bill that allocated EUR 200 million (I did not miss EUR 200 million) for the teaching of gender in schools, which fortunately is still standing still and I hope that it will not go ahead, even if the first signatory has become Minister. However - you know - if you present draft laws of that type, with 200 million euros allocated to gender in schools, and the first signatory becomes Minister of Education, you arrive in the House, you talk about cyberbullying and it is inserted just, again, the theory of gender and is financed and the national plan is made not by those who are specifically engaged in the education of adolescents, students and children, but you add this ideological fact, it is evident that what has been in the mind not of everyone, but of many colleagues, was not the battle against bullying, but it was to continue their battles, taking advantage of this law too. However, since millions and millions of Italians, parents and families listen to us, I would like to leave at least one testimony of the incredible and unusual forced entry into the Chamber by the rapporteur and the government, who in ten seconds changed their minds and modified the positive opinion expressed on an amendment relating to the measure. At least as far as we are concerned and concerning myself personally - we are a composite group - on the idea, on the people and on freedom, we will vote for abstention. [[Applause from the GAL Group (GS, PPI, M, Id, E-E, MPL).]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-751.ana.u26	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-751.ana.u27	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-751.ana.u28	GAMBARO (ALA-SCLP). Madam President, we will vote in favour of the measures against this cyberbullying, because it has been brought back to the original inspiration desired by Senator Ferrara and approved by the Senate in 2015. It is not our intention to open unnecessary polemics with the other branch of Parliament, but the changes made by the House totally upset the profound significance of the measure, bringing it from a social and cultural dimension to another, almost exclusively repressive one. In fact, while the text approved at first reading concerned only children who were victims or those responsible for acts of cyberbullying and were oriented towards raising awareness of young people and their families and preventing the discomfort of adolescents, the text approved by the House extended the scope of the target groups and the sanctioned cases. It was a choice that risked making the measures substantially unenforceable, also because they could increase indiscriminately the litigation on the part of the Data Protection Supervisor, without providing for additional resources and staff to carry out the checks. Moreover, the behaviours through which the phenomenon of bullying is carried out are to a large extent already prosecutable as crimes of defamation, private violence or stalking, with some obvious inconsistencies to be emphasized: paragraph 2 of Article 1, among the various acts and behaviours vexatori, referred to the revelation of sexual orientation, but not of the sexual act itself, thus precluded the possibility of asking the Guarantor to remove the defamatory content for some of the most serious episodes happened recently, with the involvement of minor and adult victims, who have particularly affected public opinion. Not to mention the planned appropriation of EUR 220,000 for cyberbullying activities, which is totally inadequate, since it would mean that only EUR 5 would be allocated to each school for training activities. A further critical issue was the inclusion of the new Article 8, which amended Article 612- bis of the penal code, providing for the imprisonment from one to six years for persecutory acts through computer or telematic tools, with the concrete risk of an instrumental use of the norm, to the detriment of bloggers or journalists who, even for satire purposes, publish information judged to be detrimental to the honor and reputation of any subject. But above all, the text that came out of the Chamber did not limit the field to minors, increasing the repression against all those who carry out acts of bullying and cyberbullying on the net, with reference not only to social networks, but also to chats and blogs. Now the text has returned to its original plant, which is based on three pillars: a prevention plan to be implemented in collaboration with the MIUR and the Postal Police, the possibility for minors to obtain from the Internet site managers the removal of offensive content and the warning procedure as for stalking. The extension of the rule to all citizens indiscriminately was in short a serious error: to think of entrusting the control and the possibility of obscuring the web content to the Guarantor for privacy and to the managers is completely inconceivable, both for the very high level of responsibility, and for the risk of discretion on the part of subjects who do not have the resources and the competences of the judicial authority; a measure therefore difficult to apply, for the exponential increase of the appeals to the Guarantor for privacy, and for more risky for the same freedom of thought. The first and most effective response to the psychosocial distress of violent minors is education, which must be done in the places of primary socialization (family, school) and then in those of aggregation. But it would also help to eradicate the clichés that the network is only a far west where the laws of the state do not apply and no one knows who you are. Rather, it is time to start thinking about the web as a tool to promote positive lifestyles. Unfortunately, we must face a progressive spread of the phenomenon of cyberbullying, understood as the set of acts of bullying and harassment carried out through electronic means such as e-mail, SMS, blogs, mobile phones and websites, put in place by minors who strike and damage their own peers unable to defend themselves. Studies published on the phenomenon show that cyberbulls believe they can hide behind anonymity, think they are invisible, unidentifiable, and for this reason to remain unpunished. At the same time, in the young victims the omerty is deeply rooted. The young Internet users are afraid that, trusting what has happened, their parents forbid them access to the web and, above all, feel weak, unable to defend themselves, which feeds in them a very dangerous sense of shame and inadequacy. The consequences of cyberbullying are often serious and cause depression, anxiety, fear, frustration, low self-esteem, school problems and, in the most extreme cases, suicidal ideas. For this reason, as well as for the awareness of the role assumed in recent years by social networks, which significantly expand the social networks of young people and all too often become the privileged space for the birth of unhealthy dynamics that then risk to develop also offline, the legislator has the duty to intervene. It is useful, but above all urgent, to strengthen the protection of minors with regard to the content on the network and the behaviour they themselves adopt when using it. In short, a positive use of the network should be promoted among the new generations. The draft law we are about to vote on goes in exactly this direction and is the result of a long and detailed work carried out within the Commission on Human Rights. During the hearings of representatives of the Save the Children Association and the Child Care Authority, it emerged that two out of five children are victims of cyberbullying and that 72 percent of those interviewed strongly feel this threat. The school remains the place where such episodes begin and then move to the network. It is on this, therefore, that the legislator must intervene. It is up to the school, as well as the family, to provide the children with the skills necessary for proper use of the network, through the creation of guidelines and good practices. However, this is a general approach which, despite the existence of concrete projects and interventions at several levels, has unfortunately been lacking in the Italian school so far. Precisely with regard to counter-cyberbullying activities, the Postal Police in recent years have taken great care of all forms of illegality on the net, a difficult job especially because of the speed and size of the phenomenon. We are often faced with the digital identity theft done by young people to the detriment of other young people. Identity theft can lead to very serious crimes, but in children there is no awareness of the actions carried out, also because of the ease of access and use of the network, which go hand in hand with the strong potential of the Internet. Moreover, the extreme speed of the new social media allows to make real everything that happens in virtual form. The habit of putting intimate images online, in real time, without the perception of the risks and dangers associated with the phenomenon of child pornography online, is now widespread. Eliminating those images is virtually impossible, because their spread cannot be stopped or controlled. The Postal Police has a series of technical tools to counter the phenomenon, as well as multinational companies that manage the major social networks, which have put into the study immediate intervention mechanisms, such as - for example - the insertion of a red button to be used to block the dissemination of images or posts. But the main tool to counter the phenomenon is training, direct contact with children, educational activity and comparison in schools. And it is precisely in this direction that the Ferrara law acts, which we - I repeat - will vote with conviction. [[Applause from the ALA-SCCLP Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-751.ana.u29	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-751.ana.u30	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-751.ana.u31	Orellana (Aut (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT)-PSI-MAIE). Madam President, Madam Undersecretary, ladies and gentlemen, before I begin my speech, may I thank the House for the sensitivity it has shown in dealing with this measure and I refer in particular to the last sitting. What we approve today is dictated not only by a social and moral necessity of contrast to cyberbullying, but also by a strong will to consider with attention a virtual world, which does not go hand in hand with the real one, with all its peculiarities and danger. In fact, I think that the time is ripe to deal with thorny issues such as hatred through the Internet, the danger of spreading offense through the web, degeneration and denigration of thoughts through new technologies. If, then, this potentially affects our children too, then we cannot and must not escape from even more severe but inevitable reflections. The danger of cyberbully is that, unlike what happens in traditional bullying, he can act anonymously and spread offense through the web, reaching a potentially unlimited audience: this is the real problem. The specificity of the phenomenon lies precisely in the mode of transmission of the denigratory or aggressive message, that is in a traceability or a virality not always controllable, precisely because diffused. During the general discussion I listened very carefully to the views of my fellow Members, some of whom were acceptable, others certainly less. Yet, we all agree that we consciously separate the behaviors that are acceptable on the net from those that are problematic and potentially harmful. It is certainly not the tool the problem (so the Internet, social networks or blogs), but the source that leads to such degenerations. The reason is, rather, to be found in the alteration of a conscious and intelligent use of the Internet, where a distorted and improper use of the comparison has developed and spread, whose boundary often appears to be labile and dangerous. In fact, digital should not be demonized, but used well and for this we must be polite, nor should we underestimate the impact that a negative use can have on others. My colleagues will agree with me that the legislator cannot have a magic wand to solve the problem of cyberbullying, but we can create the conditions to fight it, prevent it, study it and prevent its birth at source. I greatly appreciated the provisions on prevention and coordination, as well as the forms of involvement of institutions, associations and school offices. This is the main road, this is where we have to invest. If we have a responsibility for the fight against this phenomenon, well, then we also have a duty to work to create cultural conditions to deal with it: I think of active education, as well as promotions of children's rights. It therefore seems to me that the text before us, as amended after the speeches by the House of Deputies, is very much in the right direction. Nevertheless, the policies of contrast, experience and knowledge produced must be contextualized in the light of the changes that profoundly change our society in ethical, social and cultural terms. This will, therefore, lead to a constant and thoughtful assessment of the procedures adopted to adapt them to new variables, thus ensuring their effectiveness. I do not think, therefore, to exaggerate in affirming that the greatest challenge is the balancing of interests: that is, - on the one hand - to protect freedom of expression and privacy, but - on the other hand - not to allow any form of violence - and I am referring not only to that traditionally verbal, but also and above all to the most technological one, therefore to photographs, photomontages, videos or viral quotations - that in some way can harm the psyche of teenagers. The world of the Internet is an extraordinary amplifier of reality, it is a magnifying glass of human virtues and weaknesses. It is therefore necessary to monitor excesses and dangers, to invest in school, in culture, and to help parents and social workers. More than anything else, however, it is necessary to increase the awareness of children, the critical spirit and the sharing of values, strengthening opportunities for dialogue and listening. It is important to educate children to move carefully on the Internet, without holding back their enthusiasm, but not underestimating the dangers that this approach entails. In conclusion, Madam President, the goodness of the measure is indisputable, just as the preventive action and warning initiatives are commendable. The Group for the Autonomies-PSI-MAIE will vote in favour of this bill, not only because it is now indispensable in our order, but above all because we have committed ourselves morally to the many - too many - victims of a phenomenon as absurd as it is dangerous, such as cyber bullying. [[Applause from the Aut Group (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT) - PSI-MAIE) and Senator Ferrara Elena.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-751.ana.u32	We greet and welcome the young people of the foundation "Antonia Maria Verna" in Naples, who are today visiting the Senate and attend our work, together with their companions. Welcome! [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-751.ana.u33	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-751.ana.u34	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-751.ana.u35	PETRAGLIA (Misto-SI-SEL). Madam President, the work done in the Commission, in the Senate, has brought this measure back to the original text, as many speakers have already pointed out, avoiding the risk of approving a sort of legal monster of poor effectiveness and with many ambiguity profiles, aimed at adults and adolescents. In particular, there was a risk of intervening without a conscious reflection, on freedom of expression in the field of telematics, on the Internet, censoring any affirmation felt as offensive, of which removal could be required without the offence necessarily leading to slander and defamation, for which the crime is already foreseen by our order. The measure, on the other hand, was born in the intention of the presenter precisely with the aim of making effective the intervention to prevent and combat cyberbullying and child bullying, about which all the interventions in the general discussion last week have talked extensively, stressing also the drama of the events happened over the years. Bringing the bill back to the original spirit allows to intervene in support of the growth of boys and girls, children and girls, starting from early childhood. It is necessary, therefore, to put in place the decisive role of the school, and not only to work on respect between genders, respect for others and diversity, education for peace and confrontation, listening, but also to teach that it is not violence that can solve abuse and injustice. And telematic violence also requires talking about gender culture, gender violence. The very bad debate we had last week on the amendment calling for the participation in the ministerial table of associations dealing with gender issues - an amendment fortunately rejected by a large majority by the Senate - would have brought the debate back years and light years and would have made us make a very serious cultural retreat. However, it will not be enough for the tables, ministerial plans and guidelines if the resources necessary for teacher training are not invested, to ensure respect education projects, to ensure teachers are assured in the name of school continuity, which also helps to establish the right social relations among them, starting from the need to overcome the delegitimisation of the role of teachers, which we have painfully witnessed in the debate on good school. Just that good school that doesn't allow. Two long years have passed of reflection on this bill and, unfortunately, also two years of resources not invested. But these two years, in support of the fact that bicameralism is obviously still important, have been useful in avoiding the profound regulatory distortion that would have led to the approval of a text such as that of the House which, in fact, turns out to be weak and confused. We hope, of course, that the House will approve it quickly and that the Government will decide to include it among the needs to be dedicated to take care of the well-being, security and cultural growth, personal and emotional of the youngest. Finally, I would like to make a small point concerning all of us, which also covered part of last Thursday's debate. All of us adults must take responsibility, especially those of us who have institutional roles. Children and girls, boys and girls are not born racist, violent or bullying. They learn and absorb from the surrounding environment. Therefore, the role of the family, the school and that of all of us is fundamental. But we must also tell ourselves that in recent years we have witnessed - and, in the case of some of us, also participated - the cultural embarrassment of our society and our country. The confrontation, even the political confrontation, is often a continuous dileggio, insult, aggression and verbal violence. Education to respect, to peace, to pacifist language, to confront, must be a daily commitment that does not only concern some worlds, but calls everyone to co-responsibility. Among the many reasons why we should do this, there is also the need not to forget that boys and girls, children and girls are watching us. We are an example for values, respect for the rules of coexistence, the culture of comparison and listening. So we hope that the adoption of the law and its implementation after this particularly interesting debate will continue to involve all of us. I would like to thank the Commission, the rapporteur and the presenter for the work they have done and for the battle they have waged even when the measure was being discussed in the House. The Italian left will not fail to vote in favour of the law. [[Applause from the Mixed Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-751.ana.u36	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-751.ana.u37	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-751.ana.u38	ANITORI (AP (Ncd-CpI)). Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, Secretary of State, I would like to highlight some aspects which seem particularly interesting to us in the draft law under consideration. The first aspect concerns the phenomenon that has been spreading for a long time with a dimension that we would have considered unsuspectable because of the power of the medium, which makes possible forms of aggression unsuspectable until recently, and above all makes possible its capillarity, anonymity and, therefore, the sort of loss of the dimension of personal consciousness that very often directs the sense of responsibility with which each of us makes its choices. I would like to emphasize this precisely through the immaterial dimension of the web, which makes imaginable almost a revocability of choices that instead are not such, so, once you launch a message on the web, it becomes very difficult to erase and the damage it manages to do at a distance is much greater than you can imagine at the first moment. In fact, even the so-called bullies are not able, in turn, even to realize the intensity of the damage they cause. Precisely this mixture of factors manages to make the situation particularly explosive with the complicity of what we call the flankers of the bully, that is the spectators, who are often that element of audience and spectacularization that acts as a motor, which triggers actions and reactions with a gravity for which the subject feels exposed to a sort of media pomp under the eyes of all. We want to point out that bullying is not simply a synonym of violence; there is an attack in this form that is linked to the recurrence of damage. The latter is direct and concrete when we talk about bullying and is somehow just as immaterial when we refer to cyberbullying. It is essential, in order to defeat the phenomenon, to try to understand the psychological reasons and reasonings of both bullies and bullies, because the threshold value between the two groups is often very subtle. And this is important because the public intervention that is imagined in the draft law must not only be the punitive intervention that is realized and reduced to the sanction. On the other hand, we must be able to consider the measures to be taken in the deepest sense of education, training and, therefore, prevention. Therefore, we need a system approach that takes into account the parties involved, the protagonists, but also an approach that seeks to reach the families of the children. Almost never do the bully families think that their children are capable of such cruelty; they always think that this part of the villain never touches his son. On the other hand, they need to understand why he decides to express such profound and harmful violence against other children. We must, therefore, bind in a single circuit the actions of prevention, education, punitive, if necessary, and care in order to be able to give back to everyone the sense of their dignity. Research indicates some recurrent characteristics of the victims, from physical to gender - I remember that 70 percent of the victims of cyberbullying are girls or young women - from ethnicity to clothing, from sexual orientation to shyness, to disability. It is on these aspects that the intention to provoke suffering, ridicule, denigrate, exclude, threaten, frighten, embarrass and hurt self-esteem through insults is unleashed. The consequences of online bullying are more serious and unpredictable than the bullying that occurs in everyday material reality, because it tends to be out of control, as images, videos, verbal offenses, which amplify pain, frustration, humiliation and shame are quickly spread in the network. To intervene with a law to counter the universe of bullies was therefore necessary and necessary. The draft law under consideration, thanks to the work carried out in the Commission, attaches priority importance to education and prevention, but also provides for sanctions, without exceeding in repressive rules, especially when it comes to minors, but without excluding the necessary punishment, albeit always aimed at recovery and reeducation. The victims, in fact, generally do not talk about what they suffer, out of shame or fear, but they manifest symptoms of discomfort, anxiety, depression, isolation, refusal to go to school or to participate in sports activities, until, in extreme cases, they reach real suicide attempts. Let us not forget, in fact, that suicide in adolescent age is the second cause of death after road accidents. The online actions therefore have offline effects, the virtual becomes dramatically real. Important in this sense is one of the rules contained in the provision, which provides for the darkening, removal, blocking of cyberbullying content through an instance to the managers of websites, telematic platforms or the Data Protection Supervisor, who can carry out these interventions directly, if within twenty-four hours the responsible person does not provide it. The sanction measures include the warning, to make the bullies and parents aware of the gravity of an action not liquidable as a girl, as we often hear. In order to effectively combat bullying and cyberbullying, the bill provides, therefore, a shared commitment from many subjects, to be realized with an integrated action plan between Ministries, organizations, associations, schools and educational services, Internet operators, Postal Police - plays a decisive role, supported by ad hoc funding - Data Protection Officer, parents and children themselves. To this end, it is expected that a technical table will be set up in the Presidency of the Council, which will also have the task of implementing a data collection and monitoring system, as well as promoting awareness-raising, training and information campaigns. To conclude, therefore, to the contrast of these phenomena it has been wanted to look with an perspective that aims to tackle mainly the phenomenon through the lines of orientation and training in the school field, with the identification of a teacher referent, the modification of the school regulations, the information to the families, the projects of support to the victims and of recovery and re-education of the authors of the bullying, especially through sheltering activities to be carried out in school. For the positive innovations in the fight against online bullying, I declare the vote in favour of the measure of the People's Area Group. [[Applause from the AP Group (Ncd-CpI) and Senators Gambaro and Baptist.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-751.ana.u39	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-751.ana.u40	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-751.ana.u41	WOMAN (M5S). Madam President, ISTAT data from 2014 tell of a disturbing phenomenon, that of cyberbullying. More than half of the children between the ages of eleven and seventeen have suffered, in the previous twelve months, offensive episodes against them. Among the children using mobile phones or the Internet, however, only 5.9 percent actually report being a victim of vexation. Getting out of the dark, in fact, admitting to being prey to something that generates fear, shame, discomfort, can become a problem. Those who suffer, in fact, do not denounce for most of the times and endure in silence, without saying anything: they cannot or do not want to make known the violence suffered, and on their own they develop strategies to avoid that drama (one in ten, in fact, attempts suicide). On the one hand you have the victim, on the other you have the bully, you have the pack. The absence of a face to face and direct contact produces insidious and sometimes subtle effects, but nevertheless aimed at slandering, excluding, creating diversity, marginalizing. The tools are always the same: SMS, email, chat, social network. And the same techniques are always the same: humiliation, harassment, harassment, threats that turn into a real torment, especially for girls, more bizarre than the boys as the complainants are 7.1 percent, compared to 4.6 percent of the boys. We talk about silent abuses, which often start in a real space (at school, for example) and then consume themselves in the virtual, an environment without form and, precisely for this reason, perversely expandable. Let's just think about how many hundreds or thousands of users on a social media can view an embarrassing photo or video, and how the sharing system can make that viral content usable by an indefinite number of completely foreign subjects. That image or that sequence, through this mechanism, escapes control of the vexed, which is found to be unarmed in the face of attacks, completely unmanageable in space and time. The accomplice of digital executioners is, then, the omerty. And it is no coincidence that as many as four out of ten children are witnesses of online bullying against their peers; acts that inexplicably originate from conditions of diversity: 67 percent of cases for physical appearance; 56 percent for sexual orientation; 43 percent for being foreign. "Six fat", "six faggot", "six", "six", "dirty negro", "eat bananas", "back to the country where you came from", these are only an extract of the horrible insults that are used by the "bulls 2.0". It is a matter - as is said in the jargon - of flaming, or violent or vulgar messages, and then, in a frightening escalation, to denigration, to damage the reputation, to the theft of identity. They are stories of difficult, divisive relationships in which hostility is the master and where actions are repeated over time, continuing for weeks, months or sometimes years. Now, in all this, demonizing technological progress makes little sense: the underlying problem is not tablets, PCs or mobile phones, but those who make distorted use of them. The problem also lies in the effectiveness of the laws and preventive actions, i.e. the network of rules, values and behaviours that must be transmitted and implemented. It therefore depends on the use of the instrument. We think of the networks of solidarity, which are born on social networks following the events of magnetism, not least the copious snow that, combined with seismic episodes, has brought Italy to its knees; the same network that has created a coordination core also among citizens who have been able to provide, in their small, help and support; the same network that, with a conscious and positive use of technologies, remains an important tool for the training and education of children. In a country where the average age of young people surfing the net is ten years where being constantly connected is not an exception but the rule of everyday life, the purposes are not enough. We need a strategy of attention and protection for the children involved, whether they are victims or those responsible for the crimes, as well as a digital education and a prompt diagnosis of the symptoms of the discomfort of children by those in contact with them, at home and at school. And not only that. We must act on the technical sphere, with the dissemination of knowledge of privacy protection mechanisms, because all too often it happens that children make unknowingly public private behaviors and details that should never be disclosed. Only in this way can digital persecutors be hindered. But let's get to us. In the succession of parliamentary readings, it happened that the text, initially approved by the Senate, completely changed in the subsequent approval to the House, so much so as to make it necessary, here in the Senate, a process of restoration of the initial contents. And this is because, since the scope of the measure outside the juvenile sphere, it would have distorted the force of the bill itself, called in reality to intervene on a specific sector. At the same time, the definition of bullying and cyberbullying that came from the House remained dangerously generic and unfit to outline the phenomenon. That is why it has been strongly stigmatized by our colleagues in the Commission and in this House. And we fought, with a hammering action, always in the Commission, not to confirm a version of the wrong text, a child of haste or, worse, the result of the malice of someone who wanted to upset it in a forced and superficial way. The attempts to heal the text have not gone completely empty and that requirement of correctness, that is, to return to the initial text has found partial acceptance through the approval of some of our proposals. I declare, therefore, the favorable vote of the 5 Star Movement, but with a warning: here, as legislators, we have a duty to approve laws that are not merely proclamations. We're not talking about commercials, which you're masters of, just to say, See, we've done this or that. No Pyrrhus wins. We are strongly convinced - and we will not tire of pointing out it at every opportunity - that laws must work, they must not be sophisms about phenomena. You may not know this, but often for children the biggest challenges to be faced daily are not the tasks or questions, but the successful inclusion in the peer group and the node of interpersonal relations. They are small soldiers of the immense army, to quote the words of De Amicis; they have as only weapons available books, knowledge, curiosity; their team are the companions who see every day and the battle for which they strive is that against diversity. It follows that only in this way can a victory be achieved that is not personal, but that of the entire human civilization, starting from the family, passing through school and companions, up to the entire social context. It is necessary to build the premises to annihilate discrimination, violence and homophobic attitudes before the phenomenon becomes unstoppable. In conclusion and after these necessary premises, we of the 5 Star Movement turn a thought to the children still today silent victims of the phenomenon of cyberbullying: remember, boys, that it is not great who needs to make you feel small. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-751.ana.u42	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-751.ana.u43	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-751.ana.u44	BERNINI (FI-PdL XVII). Madam President, we have already highlighted, for our part, in general discussion, our favourable approach to this measure. We have discussed it extensively in the Commission and we have enjoyed the way in which the Senate Commission has dealt with it, without unnecessarily punitive and repressive instincts. For this reason - I have already done so in general, but may I do so again - I would like to thank the presenter of the measure, Senator Ferrara, who has given the right approach from the outset to a text that cannot be generalized. The text refers to children who are subjected to harassment by other minors, with a very well defined field of operation: the rule must be clear in order to be applicable. We have never needed clear rules; especially now, when a need is to be met, we cannot allow ourselves to tell a story that does not have a proper development in the legislative text. We cannot afford to disappoint our recipients. Therefore, with all respect for our colleagues in the House, who wanted, perhaps following the most burning current situation, to extend the scope of operation and application of this provision, we felt that in order to make it really effective, efficient and operational we should return to the initial perimeter; a perimeter in itself extremely ambitious and important, because it is a topic unfortunately often elusive - we have all said it with different words - and difficult to grasp. It is in fact difficult to identify the devices through which the acts in question are carried out and it is difficult to control the diodes that make viral the pathological information that branch out from the devices. I would like to thank Senator Palermo, who managed the second part of the bill, the return one, perhaps the most complicated for us, for the drafting of a text that - I repeat once again - is important, because this is the philosophy that we pursue, want and believe to be effective. Senator Palermo has managed a size and sewing that makes the tailoring standard, suitable for the circumstance. It is not necessary to punish and repress, creating a copy of this case that is difficult to place within a kit of crimes and sanctions already covered by the penal code and the criminal procedure code. We have said this and we repeat it: there are harassment, violence, private violence, persecutory acts and identity thefts - all this exists - and the only way to make this rule effective is to give it a preventive, educational and early diagnosis function, because very often what is indispensable is to bring the subjects of the norm back to reality. We know - we have heard this in the Commission, but it has also been mentioned in the speeches in this House - the case-making of the pain and suffering of people who have suffered profound harassment, with stories that - unfortunately - have often ended in the most dramatic way. The only real intervention that we can and must implement also through this rule is to bring back those who often, living a virtual world, do not realize what they are doing. At this moment I am talking not about the victims, but about the perpetrators, the so-called executioners. I thank our offices that, through a very detailed and detailed dossier, have provided us with a statistic from which it emerges that these crimes are carried out mainly by school computer stations. This gives measure, tone and toughness to that admonition of the quaestor that is not only an act of empire and violent return to a state hand that imposes itself imperatively, but it is also a return to reality and a way of ensuring that the agencies of sense that minors have to take care - I think of the family and school - know what happens because - once again I repeat and repeat - very often what happens is not easily known even by the people closest to the minors. For all these reasons, we believe that the formula adopted during the last passage to the Senate is the right one. We believe that the educational function, not only on minors, but also and above all on those who deal with minors (the families, the school and the postal police forces that must suppress the acts of bullying), is important for how it is outlined, but that its implementation will be even more important. This is a declaration of intent and an opening of credit that we all make to this portion of text, but without subtracting us from constant control and monitoring to see how it works and how it is implemented. There is a part, which we have discussed, which leaves us with a remnant of perplexity. It is right and proper for there to be an interministerial connection to identify the guidelines for implementing this measure, but care must be taken to ensure that this connection does not slip into bureaucracy. Here we must deal not with bureaucracy, but with concrete cases and situations that unfortunately occur if it is true - we have read it and it is certainly true - that concern one in two minors. It is a frightening and dramatic statistic, which certainly - as we have said - cannot be healed through mere repression. But we must talk about repression and, in this sense too, the text sets out guidelines which must be monitored and verified in their implementation. Repression must be about the darkening and elimination of the intimidating and defamatory materials through which the act of cyberbullying is carried out in the network. This is, of course, due to the complaint that is being made to the police authorities and the subsequent injunction by the judicial authorities, but we cannot think that this is enough, because the time must be much shorter. Therefore, they are the same transmitters of the Network, they are the same providers (the servers) of computer services that must, moreover, in compliance with the codes of self-discipline that they have assigned themselves, remove as quickly as possible the infected materials, because in the life of a minor these represent the difference between the physiological quality of life of a minor and a teenager and the deepest pathology. The figure highlighted - and with this I start to conclude - and cured by the early diagnosis and guarantee of the rights of education and prevention that are in charge of children, is that unfortunately anyone performing acts of cyberbullying hardly stops at an intermediate level, but suffers an escalation. Very often those who perform acts of cyberbullying do not realize, especially if the age of the minor is early, what is doing, but as the act is carried out, unfortunately awareness grows and if it is not stopped by acts of education or empire, such as admonition, risks becoming increasingly dangerous and violent. In this sense we wanted to direct the text of our measure, considering that penalties, sanctions and repression are not the solution to the problem, because they already exist in the penal code. What we want to achieve from this measure is hygiene, training, prevention, culture of civilization and common living. For all these reasons, because we have considered that this has been done, of course within the limits of the capacity of a Parliament which must take account of the different sensitivities, but with a focus on the implementation of this rule which none of us can and must avoid, I declare the support of the FI-PdL Group XVII. [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-751.ana.u45	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-751.ana.u46	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-751.ana.u47	Mr Ferrara Elena (PD). Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, representatives of the Government, on 20 May 2015 in this same Chamber we were wondering whether a law on cyberbullying really needed to be applied. It was certainly not a rhetorical question, as it could appear today in the face of an increasingly recognized phenomenon; a question to which the Senate answered in a clear, strong and unequivocal way: certainly yes, if thought to protect minors. They are the recipients of the measure under discussion, thousands of children and children, from primary school to high school, who are hurting each other. Unfortunately, not only in the generation of digital natives, there is a lack of awareness that everything you place on the Internet remains forever, but children today cannot denounce themselves, nor do they have certain devices and times to protect their dignity. That day the Senate made a specific commitment: no more useless deaths! Well, after Carolina, Nadia and Aurora, if in Italy we did not count other victims it was thanks to an open blind, the one that saved a 12-year-old Pordenone, or medicines without excessive contraindications even if taken in massive doses by a young girl in Turin; it was thanks to an alarm cry launched by a friend who, intuition the suicidal intent, launched an alarm that was immediately and effectively collected by the Forces of Order. Finally, during the Christmas holidays just spent, we had a rescue in extremis of a girl who had already cut her wrists in her room, in silence and solitude. Our bill, which we have all approved, gives an example of how, in the face of certain issues, there can be no flags or protagonists, has had the merit of cementing a network even before seeing its process completed. [[Brusio.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-751.ana.u48	Colleagues, with this buzz it is impossible to speak and listen.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-751.ana.u49	I would ask you to lower the volume of your voice and be polite to your colleague. Mr Ferrara Elena (PD). They've all been very courteous, just now there's a little effervescence. An extraordinary system that has contributed to women and men in the most diverse sectors: from institutions to new media companies, from law enforcement agencies to health professionals, from pedagogy experts to law experts, from speakers to local administrators, from families to school teachers and universities, to students who have formed the bullied classes, to associations of victims of school cyberbullying. A network that can count on the extraordinary support of the third sector and territorial services, which now lacks - to remain in the theme - the stability of connection, that is an educational alliance, a glue: that stability that only the interministerial table for the prevention and the contrast of cyberbullying, coordinated by the Ministry of Education, can determine thanks to this legislative proposal. Continuity: that is the key word of the measure that we are about to vote on. Continuity of structural interventions, which serves the many projects activated by the autonomous schools, even on the net, to spread permanently a conscious use of the network in the generations of today and tomorrow. Hence the need for a contact person on cyberbullying at least for every school autonomy. But also design continuity between various school orders and between school and territory. Continuity of funds to the Postal Police - as has been pointed out several times - for the continuing training of teachers in relation to such a complex and constantly changing subject, precisely because it is linked to the new technologies. Continuity with the spirit that allowed this Assembly to approve the first passage of the law unanimously. It is no coincidence that this challenge was born in the Human Rights Commission, from a bipartisan cognitive survey with reference to myself and Senator Riccardo Mazzoni, who determined the need to focus on a synergistic action of the many involved: a design devoted to prevention, to the inclusive approach, not sanctioning, but educational, shared by the 1st Commission that worked in the referent. In particular, I would like to thank the Presidents of the two Commissions concerned, all the members and, in particular, the rapporteur, Francesco Palermo, for the work he has done. The bill, inspired by a mild right, introduces the warning procedure, as is the case with stalking, in order to make children over 14 years of age responsible for crimes, keeping them, however, in cases where it is permitted by law, out of criminal law. The re-educational measure strengthens the procedures activated by the juvenile justice services, in line with the principles reaffirmed by the Guarantor for Children and Adolescence and in the spirit of co-responsibility recalled several times by the Guarantor for privacy. Crimes already exist and contemplate the online, from stalking to defamation, from identity theft to death as a result of another crime. This is demonstrated by the exemplary convictions communicated by the court for minors in Turin for the case of Carolina Picchio: up to twenty-seven months of testing for the children accused, at the time of minor events like their victim. An alternative punishment to prison, but certainly not a vacation. A sentence that clarifies once and for all that cyberbullying has nothing to do with girls; that a simple like on a photo or video of a beating, perhaps organized to give show on social media, is criminally prosecutable. That posting or sharing sexually explicit images of a young girl or underage boy responds to the crime of spreading child pornography material. Crimes exist, but there is a lack of awareness of how essential it is to promote the responsible use of what remains a tool. And of course there are the victims of these pipelines, to which the bill reserves a measure in support of a path that leads out of silence. For the first time, children over 14 years old can request the cancellation of damaged material directly. In case of non-acceptance or inertia of the data controller or social media operator, the intervention of the Data Protection Authority is provided for. I think of Carolina, whose message is summed up in a phrase that has become a slogan: words hurt more than beatings. But Carolina is much more than that, I read it in the eyes of thousands of students met during these years in schools throughout Italy. They are the bearers of this new evolution of rights, they knock at the door of the digital world bringing the experience and weight of web reputation; because virtual in emotions, pain, tears and loneliness there is little or nothing. On these issues are being compared the professionals of neuroscience, child neuropsychiatry, psychologists, pedagogists, educators, media experts and minors, but also we politicians, in the common aim of giving the best response to this hateful phenomenon, which has a lot to do with the discrimination and prejudices on which the pack builds the conducts vexatory. Yes, because unfortunately membership of the group responds to the needs of acceptance and identity recognition and it doesn't matter if the glue relies on other denigration (we are talking about the evolutionary age). Slanders and insults, abuse and harassment, but also threats and extortion are the result, not so frequent, of conduct that all too often parents also call jokes. There can never be real progress without humanity and technology must always be traced back to ethics and the culture of respect: this law is not against the web, but it lays the foundations for building together a new principle of digital citizenship. A principle that today must assume intergenerational terms, in order to be able to give a license also to those parents who are not native digital and who use social media often with a good dose of naivety. In the difficult confrontation with the risks and dangers of the network, however, it is clear that we must use the principles of enhanced protection for children, in line with Decision No. 1351/2008/EC on the security of children online, the new Data Protection Regulation No. 679 of 2016 and in compliance with the International Convention on the Rights of Children. The amendment contribution of the House's colleagues had the merit of specifying the strategies of intervention within the framework of the law of reform of the school in the meantime intervened, to strengthen the collaborations between the Ministries (for example a greater involvement of the Department of juvenile justice and community, expressing the opinion on the guidelines issued by the MIUR) and to provide more punctual territorial networks in order to make more effective prevention and contrast to the phenomenon. Resources were also included for multi-annual information campaigns by the Council Presidency with the MIUR and AGCOM. Among the other changes, there is a focus on gender issues, which we can relate to the news, but also derive from the European directives on digital child safety. The fact remains that the universality of the recipients of the provisions and the introduction of an act of crime have opened a different perspective to our focus, with the risk of rendering the measures envisaged ineffective. Controlling the Internet without limiting individual freedom is a topic of great complexity. On the other hand, freedom of expression and freedom of thought fall within fundamental rights, but when it comes to minors, as this text provides, even web giants must take a step back and facilitate removals of content or accelerate the blocking of sites or profiles on the basis of reports sent by teenagers. This is the great commitment shared also by the main subjects of the web, which several times publicly made themselves available to respect. We cannot, nor do we want to delegate to companies the monitoring of digital behaviour, but we want an educational alliance, responsibility and protection, through the instrument of co-regulation. This legislative proposal is part of a specific beehive, which is also the subject of international attention, and calls on all those involved to engage actively in the prevention and countering of these phenomena. Here I would like to remember and thank Paolo Picchio for his tireless commitment. The National Center dedicated to the care of the victims of cyberbullying and the recovery of bullies, based at the Children's House of the Fatebenefratelli Sacco in Milan, will leave shortly and will be dedicated to his daughter. Only in 2016 the Paediatric House managed 1,200 cases of juvenile discomfort from all over Italy (but the requests were 7.000), not only through health care and clinical support, but also thanks to the recovery activities. Out of 1,200 cases, 80 percent affect the Internet, the deep web and social networks. These are the first official data on diseases related to new technologies. It is cyberbullying that masters it, with 35% of cases. Following are phenomena of online gambling, sexting, vamping and alienation from smartphones, up to Internet addiction. This law gives a bit of refreshment to all those families who have experienced closely the consequences of improper use of the web. I've met a lot of parents, some of whom are active in prevention projects. I think of Thomas' parents, who were missed in 2009; it bears his name one of the projects of peer education that was ante litteram in Europe. I think of Teresa Manes, the mother of Andrea Spezzacatena, victim in 2012 of homophobic insults, even via the web, at only fifteen years. In closing, I stress that the Ministry of Education has intensified its commitment to bullying and cyberbullying in recent years, with the adoption of the guidelines presented by former minister, Senator Giannini, right here in the Senate in April 2015 and giving continuity to the table of connected Generations. In a few days we celebrate the International Day for Internet Security, a day that has become increasingly important in recent years and that this year will count many initiatives throughout Italy for the day of February 7. A mobilization in which the kids will be the real protagonists, demonstrating their commitment, and we can expect them to ask us for updates on our work. The Democratic Party, which immediately believed in this bill, will vote for it firmly, recognizing the contribution of all political forces. My sincere thanks therefore go to the Presidents of the parliamentary groups - not only to President Zanda - but also to each colleague, of course including those who have had and have a role of government, for having supported the return to a draft in continuity and consistency with the text escaped at first reading. The hope is that the measure can be closed, by enhancing the points of convergence in this parliamentary term. That this is an urgent matter is now before everyone's eyes. [[Applause from the PD Group and Senator Bernini.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-751.ana.u50	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-751.ana.u51	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-751.ana.u52	CANDIANI (LN-Aut). We call for the vote to be taken by simultaneous ballot by electronic means.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-751.ana.u53	I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I refer to the nominal vote by simultaneous ballot of the bill, as a whole, in the amended text, with the following title: Provisions to protect minors for the prevention and contrast of the phenomenon of cyberbullying. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. [[v. Annex B. Applause from the PD and AP groups (Ncd-CpI.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-751.ana.u54	The next item is the debate on draft law Nos. 2068, already approved by the Chamber of Deputies in a text resulting from the unification of the draft own-initiative law of Braga and others; Segoni and others; Zaratti and Pellegrino, 1001, 1606, 1797 and 2095. The rapporteurs, Senators Caleo and Collina, asked for permission to carry out the oral report. No comments were made and the request was accepted. I therefore call the rapporteur, Senator Caleo.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-751.ana.u55	Madam President, I will do the first part of the report which will then be supplemented by Senator Collina. [[Brusio]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-751.ana.u56	Colleagues, who has to go away, do it. We are trying to maintain a relative silence in order to listen to the report on a draft law that the House wanted to debate, and I therefore believe that it now deserves attention.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-751.ana.u57	Please, Senator Caleo. Mr Caleo, rapporteur. Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, today the House is preparing to adopt a measure which, due to a series of incomprehensible procedural differences between the House and the Senate, has remained for too long in the Committees on Constitutional Affairs and the Environment at Palazzo Madama. The slowing down of the process of examining the draft law depended on a technical opinion issued by the Senate Budget Commission on the basis of indications from the state accounting. The draft law, in fact, on certain issues of economic and financial importance refers to institutions no longer existing and was asked for an update. Since the political will was not to make any further changes to the text, approved by the House with a larger majority than the government supports, receiving many amendments and additions proposed by various Groups, it was working to overcome the impasse and arrive at rapid approval. Now with the transposition of the opinion, once approved, this measure will return to the House for its third, and we hope also last, reading. I hope, Madam President and honourable Members, that it will never happen again that in order to be able to discuss, in this assembly, such an important and necessary measure for the country, we must expect the arrival of a tragedy such as that of Rigopiano and the earthquake. As rapporteur for the measure in the Commission and as Vice-President of the Environment Commission, I think it is appropriate to make a premise, also in the light of the many controversies that have followed the last calamitous events, starting with the earthquake of 24 August. [[Brusio.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-751.ana.u58	Colleagues, it is not possible to continue with this buzz. I therefore ask you to move away from the Chamber or to drastically lower the volume of your talk. We are discussing a very important issue, which I believe deserves attention. Please, Senator Caleo.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-751.ana.u59	During the course of this legislature we have undertaken to put in place important measures for the contrast and mitigation of damage from natural disasters and hydrogeological failure, with the aim of overcoming the approach of the only response to the emergency, moving to that of the planning and programming of policies of prevention in the management of the territory, convinced of the importance and the indifference to make prevention the main strategic axis on which the country must aim in the coming years. I would like to stress how much the national civil protection system - to which I commend the efficiency and effectiveness in the management, from the very first hours, of the disasters that are scourged in recent months by Central Italy - is central to the creation and coordination of this system. A system that sees citizens, institutions, bodies and public structures - starting from the Fire Departments and the Armed Forces - and private engaged, at every level, in the pursuit of complex objectives of resilience and territorial security. When dealing with these matters, there is always a risk of falling victim to rhetoric, but I assure you that this is not the case. We must stop hiding behind the magic formula of lack of resources and approximation due to the urgency of managing the emergency. Taking note of the fragility of our territory from the geological point of view, to which must be added the carelessness, the abandonment, the abusivism and the irrational consumption of soil, it is necessary to correspond, in addition to the appropriate and programmable financial measures, with the definitive organization and planning of the preventive interventions. We have often witnessed that when there is a political will, important results can be achieved. The effectiveness of civil protection intervention is based on the broad scope of the vision of the phenomena and activities to be put in place in order to predict them - when possible - to prevent, confront and overcome them. This is, in my opinion, the directing booth that must coordinate and make synergistic the activities of the mission structure of Italy Secure and of Casa Italia. With the bill we delegate to our examination, all we do is rearrange the regulatory framework in which the department operates, simplifying and seeking as much coherence as possible between national and regional instruments. The aim is to further improve the national civil protection system by clarifying procedures and defining roles, competences and responsibilities. In recent years the action of the national civil protection system - formed by a very clear chain: forecasting, prevention, rescue and restoration of normal life activities - has been confined to only aspects of non-structural prevention, albeit fundamental. Non-structural prevention, colleagues, means emergency planning, information to the population, warning systems and procedures, training and exercise. The delegation aims to reassigned to the department the activity of structural prevention, i.e. the interventions aimed at reducing the risks from natural disasters, so that the overall vision is not lost: this is a peculiarity that distinguishes the department from its origins. I remind everyone that civil protection, in our system, is the whole of the activities put in place to protect the integrity of life, the property and the settlements of a community. It is a polycentric and articulated system in the territory, it is the Italian model based on the founding law of 1992. From that 1992 to today, however, our country has been subject to dozens of natural disasters, also caused by human action, for which the State has activated emergency procedures and support measures that have led to the prolification of primary norms and consequent ordinances, which have made Law n. 225 in some passages unclear and, even, contradictory. I would like to give an example of a very current phenomenon: when it is said that emergency intervention must be carried out in an immediate way, but then a preliminary investigation is planned for the very long emergency declaration, causing a contradiction of difficult practical solution and that today is governed thanks to the integrated action between the Government and the Regions. For this reason, the delegation provides both a reorganization and the possibility of a reorganization of the department, but, at the same time, fixes its stakes. Although only mentioned, the objectives set out in the draft law nevertheless imply the desire to strengthen planning operations, as well as the intention to better specify the chain of responsibilities: by providing, inter alia, for monitoring and regular updating of the measures taken, with a report to Parliament. In addition to these, I would like to highlight among the significant objectives the priority attention to organised civil protection volunteering and its forms of representation and participation. We have all seen how fundamental the contribution of the volunteers, to whom all our recognition goes, for the management of the first aid and the first phase of the emergence of tragic events. I believe that this is one of the fundamental and innovative points that this measure seeks to make clear. Among the objectives are: the culture of civil protection, the promotion of voluntary organisations and, at the same time, the provision of collaboration with universities and research bodies on the various activities and an organic discipline of the financing of functions through the National Civil Protection Fund, the National Emergency Fund and the Regional Civil Protection Fund. There is also provision for measures to remove obstacles to the recovery of normal living conditions in areas affected by calamitous events, consisting of structural interventions to restore territories, public works and infrastructure, to reduce risk, including providing for micro-credit and the simplification of administrative procedures, also continuing the work of specification already started with the new procurement code and which, also in the light of recent post-sysm activities in Central Italy, has worked. However, a clarification is needed: this intervention streamlines and strengthens the coordination activities of the system by the Department of Civil Protection. Parliament's debate, and not only that, has clearly revealed the need to speed up the procedures for reconstruction operations. Well, I believe that on this point, ladies and gentlemen, there is a need for clarity. This delegation law strengthens civil protection, but it does not intervene on the reconstruction activity which, in my opinion, must be based above all on the involvement of territorial authorities, starting with the municipalities. Therefore, the rules that we hope will soon be introduced by the Government must, in order to protect the activities of the mayors, streamline the procedures but, at the same time, to avoid sadly known phenomena, identify a system of control and transparency. It is not easy, but this must be one of the objectives to be met. And then we keep the sterile political polemic away from this virtuous part of the state. The state that organizes itself, with its best parts, harmoniously, with valiant and courageous women and men. The prerequisites are all there to give adequate answers to the need for security of the Italian territory and to the expectations of the citizens. I hope that the implementation of the delegation by the Government can proceed quickly. The state must be ready to be close to its citizens in the moment of need. [[Applause from the PD Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-751.ana.u60	I call the rapporteur, Senator Collina.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-751.ana.u61	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, I am supplementing the report because the draft law was dealt with in the Senate by Commissions 1a and 13a, because the Committee on Constitutional Affairs is following all matters of relevance to the Presidency of the Council and the delegation to civil protection is part of it. I will mention a few aspects, bearing in mind the fact that the matter has unfortunately been dealt with extensively in this Parliament within Commission 13a. There are, however, aspects related to the daily life of the civil protection activity that are part of the bill that seeks to tidy up the matter. As my colleague Mr Caleo said, at the moment the law could not be the answer to the needs which have occurred and which have been tragically highlighted in recent months. If that had been the case, we would certainly have speeded up the process of the law by trying to give more precise answers. This delegation shall seek to tidy up the matter. Compared to the text of the Chamber, the content was changed only where it was necessary to clarify the non-honerosity of some proposed provisions and to be able to proceed to a quick third reading in the Chamber of Deputies, considering it for the rest well balanced between the needs of modification and simplification of the existing legislation in the field of civil protection and the requirements of maintenance of a plant that has fully demonstrated its ability to shape in Italy an excellent system of response to emerging situations, as was last appreciated during the seismic events that have devastated Central Italy, starting last August. With regard to the contents of the bill, the delegation, to be exercised within nine months of the date of entry into force of the law, provides for one or more legislative decrees of reconnaissance, reorganization, coordination, modification and integration of the existing legislative provisions governing the National Service of Civil Protection and its functions. As regards the areas within which the delegation is exercised, to be reported are the definition of civil protection activities, to be understood as a set of activities to protect the integrity of life, assets, settlements and the environment from damage or danger of damage arising from natural disasters or of a man-made disaster, articulated in forecast, prevention and mitigation of risks related to the same disasters, planning and management of emergencies, as well as coordination; the organisation of a polycentric system, allowing the definition of intermediate coordination levels between the municipal and regional levels and the integration of the list of operational structures operating for civil protection purposes; the allocation of functions in the field of civil protection to the State, the Regions, the Municipalities, the Unions of the Municipalities, the metropolitan cities, the civil authorities, the civil authorities, the emergency agencies and the provision of facilities for the provision of civil protection, and the promotion of civil services; the participation of citizens, individuals or in association, in the civil protection activities, with regard to the planning of initiatives, the exercises for the provision of emergency services, the provision of services and facilities for the provision of civil services, the provision of facilities and facilities for the promotion of civil facilities, all to the civil services, and the civil services; The principles and guiding criteria to be followed in the exercise of the delegation, including the identification of the types of risk, the identification of the levels of effects determined by calamitous events to compare the different measures and forms of facilitation and refreshment for the stakeholders, and the introduction of appropriate simplification tools aimed at reducing administrative burdens, are also defined. Legislative decrees must simplify the legislation of the subject matter and define the criteria to be followed in order to adopt, within two years of the date of entry into force of those decrees, the necessary initiatives for the recognition, modification and integration of the implementing measures. Legislative decrees will also have to identify the areas in which the regions exercise legislative and regulatory power. Within two years of the entry into force of the legislative decrees, finally, the Government may adopt any additional or corrective provisions of the decrees issued. Overall, the draft law does not aim to upset the installation of Law No 225 of 1992, which currently regulates the system of civil protection in Italy, since many of the criteria of delegation tend to retrace the basic lines at the basis of such legislation. At the same time, however, there has been a need for a homogenisation and simplification of the subject by means of the instrument of legislative delegation; this is mainly due to the fact that, starting from the original establishment of Law No 225, special provisions have been stratified over time which are likely to lead to overlaps, generate potential conflicts of competence and thus complicate the action of the national system, especially considering that it brings with it the need for close cooperation between the different territorial levels. It is on this collaboration between the different territorial levels that I would like to focus in conclusion, because the debate we have held within the Commission has been broad and has brought out the great level of responsibility - I want to stress this - that today is entrusted to the mayors as those who must assume the task of managing civil protection on the territory. It is a very delicate subject, which I think will become increasingly important in the coming years, because mayors are in a very difficult position to manage. That is why, through regulations, we must meet this role. We have not been able to fully address these issues. In a country like ours the mayors are health authorities of the municipality and have a technical body called ASL that gives them technical support to make certain decisions; the same does not apply to the Civil Protection that has to decide what to do: whether to close a school or not in the face of a situation of probabilistically defined and identified danger. If there is an 80 percent chance that a river will exond, it means that, out of ten times, eight times it will exond and twice it will not; but if there is 20 percent chance that a river will exond, it means that eight times it will not exond but two times it will. That is the condition in which our mayors find themselves when they have to make decisions. So you understand that all this is very complex, especially since in the meantime the case law in the field has developed. Statistics speak for themselves: up to fifteen years ago, the cases in which mayors were sued for natural disasters were counted on one hand's fingers. Over the last fifteen years we have more than 80 cases in which mayors or local administrators (in Provinces, etc.) are called into court for cases of natural disasters. You understand that the issue of responsibility is important. Today we have a civil protection network made up of technicians, in my opinion, very responsible and we have a local political and administrative class on the territory made up of mayors, also very responsible, able to take responsibility for the choices even under the most complicated conditions. This is our heritage, but we must also imagine that with regulations we can give greater support to local administrators in these situations of serious difficulty, which are always unpredictable and difficult to assess in their catastrophic dimension. [[Applause from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-751.ana.u62	I declare the general discussion open. Senator Arrigoni is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-751.ana.u63	Madam President, Mr Pizzetti, ladies and gentlemen, we repeat this: we regret that, on the emotional wave of the last bad weather emergency that hit Central Italy, to which four other strong earthquakes have overlapped - I remember - on 18 January, this measure has been taken as a matter of urgency, which - I am reminding and reporting it to the citizens who are watching or listening to us - is a draft law which, if it is okay, will see something operational with legislative decrees not before a year. We of the North League, in the light of the recent bad weather emergency that superimposed on the earthquake emergency of 24 August, 26 and 30 October, taking into account the obvious criticalities that have manifested itself in the reaction of the state machine and therefore in that of the Civil Protection in dealing with these emergencies and the post earthquake reconstruction in the four Regions (Latium, Umbria, Abruzzo and Marche), we would have preferred a serious reflection and a serious analysis of what did not work and does not work, since the Parliament and the Government should face seriously the reform of the national civil protection system. Doing a real service to the country does not necessarily mean speeding up the process so that we can tell the Italians that we faced and fired this bill quickly. Haste is often a bad counselor and often does not allow the objectives set to be pursued effectively. The strong seismic shocks that frequently follow, the hydrogeological disruptions, the weak balance between natural heritage and urban settlements, the strong anthropization of some areas of the country represent constant criticalities that, in the cases of exceptional natural events, often become disastrous emergencies. The increase in the frequency and intensity of extreme phenomena such as earthquakes, landslides, floods, clouds, tornadoes, but also droughts, due both to natural causes and to human action, makes it essential to identify a political strategy aimed more at prevention (of which all too often, unfortunately, we speak only), to the care of the territory, to the adoption of active surveillance practices and constant maintenance of the ground, that is able to maintain in a state of concrete safety the most sensitive areas from the point of view of hydrogeological risk and territorial disruption. But in order to make serious prevention, we need to allocate a lot of money, something that the last governments, on the other hand, do not do. Added to the fragility of our territory are the abandonment of mountain land (woe to proceed with the mergers of the Municipalities, because it would lose the garrison of the most disadvantaged areas and, in particular, of the mountain ones), the deforestation, the construction often abusive on the slopes at risk, the lack of cleaning of the streams and the cementification of long stretches of rivers and streams, which contribute to the increase of the exposure of the population and economic activities and to the risk of floods and disruptions. All this very often happens because there are no necessary urban planning plans; and if there are, in many circumstances administrators turn their faces on the other side. Our Group is therefore aware of the vulnerability of the territory and the exposure to the risk of the population, and is aware of the need to safeguard the territory as a common good of all. We are aware of the need for a reform of civil protection to ensure greater efficiency and organicity, modern and evolved emergency prevention and management measures as well as accountability of structures and intervention centres. The law n. 225 of 1992 which regulates the civil protection system has proved to be very avant-garde for the time of its adoption, so much so that it has contributed to the achievement, in the past, of a level of excellence recognized to Italy by the European partners. Since then, however, even following the endless succession of disasters that have affected the country, a number of rules and orders have been added that have unfortunately complicated the legislative framework and that, therefore, require an organic intervention by the legislator towards greater clarity, simplification and regulatory effectiveness. However, we believe that we must not lose the positive baggage accumulated in recent years by intervention structures that have proved centres of excellence. Until now, the civil protection organisation system has been based on the autonomy of the regions and has proved exemplary on several occasions. Without prejudice, therefore, to the need for reform in order to ensure better coordination throughout the territory, we believe that legislative competence must remain at the head of the Regions. In this sense, we are satisfied with the rejection of the constitutional reform of former Prime Minister Renzi, who instead wanted to place the national system and the coordination of civil protection between matters of exclusive legislation by the State. Our territory is very heterogeneous in terms of peculiarities and criticalities found and, therefore, a single legislation, at central level, it is not at all said that it can lead to an improvement of the civil protection system throughout the national territory. The basic text was improved during the examination in the Chamber. Now, in the new text - which we have received in the Senate and which unfortunately we will have to dismiss armored, subject to some excerpts related to provisions of the General Accounting of the State - the Regions are also mentioned, in line with article 117, third paragraph, of the Constitution, which states that civil protection falls within the fields of legislation concurrent with the State; the functions of the Presidents of the Regions are also mentioned, which finally become civil protection authorities, which were instead literally ignored in the original text. In the text, which unfortunately appears here in the Senate to be essentially - I repeat - armored, it refers to a polycentric system, which operates at central, regional and local level and which provides for the possibility of defining intermediate levels of coordination between the regional and local dimensions; it assigns the functions to the State, the Regions, the Municipalities, the Municipalities' Unions, the Metropolitan Cities, the entities of the vast area (which will continue to be called Provinces) and the operational structures of the national service. However, the text presents some critical issues. Unfortunately, despite the draft law covering all issues of civil protection, it shows a significant indeterminate nature of the principles and guiding criteria of delegation. In fact, while the text, in paragraph 1, describes well the areas within which the Government is delegated to adopt legislative decrees, however, the principles and guiding criteria listed in paragraph 2 do not appear to be clearly contained and well circumscribed, with an excessive possibility of intervention by the Government. Another serious deficiency in the text is the failure to identify certain resources for the provision of civil protection funds, articulated in the National Civil Protection Fund, the National Emergency Fund and the Regional Civil Protection Fund. Paragraph 2, in fact, puts to the law of stability the definition of the relative financial envelopes, previewing the invariance of the burdens at the expense of the public finance. Everyone is aware of the chronic shortage of financial resources from civil protection funds and the need to use buffer measures whenever, unfortunately, the territory is often affected by disasters. A genuine reform of the discipline of the civil protection system should put certainty of the financial resources involved first. Moreover, I would draw the attention of the Government to the need to release from the balance of the budget (which is a development of the Stability Pact) those expenditures of the State, the Regions and the local authorities destined to civil protection functions. Another critical issue - minor as a matter, but no less important - that the text does not solve is the lack of an intervention in the issue of organic discipline and voluntary civil protection. Our civil protection system has for years been recognised by all as one of the most efficient at international level, constituting a reference model in Europe, but also in the world. In particular, in the past it has been recognized the activity of emergency emergency intervention and the efficiency and effectiveness of the organizations diffused in the territory of polycentric character coordinated by the Department of Civil Protection, which has been able to provide its services to the community by means of an activity independent and distinct from that of the participants in the system, preserving the latter its organizational, institutional and operational autonomy. However, the last seismic events that since August 24 continue to strike the poor central areas of the country, with the worsening of the situation as a result of the exceptional snowfalls that have affected the same areas, have shown unacceptable deficiencies of the current system, causing dismay and indignation by the population and leaving the families in critical conditions for months and populations without for whole days - up to ten days - of electricity, heating and any telephone connection. In this way, there have been victims, emergencies in agriculture and livestock and major inconveniences. It is in the eyes of all that something is no longer working and that immediate intervention measures are needed. The system today makes an image of complete dismantling. There is a lack of operational means in everyone's eyes. For example, during the snow emergency, the means for clearing snow, snow shovels and turbines were lacking. There is a lack of effective operational means and regulatory tools. More and more people rely on the volunteer to solve the problems and here the Group of the North League wants to thank the tens of thousands of men and women of the Fire Department, the Civil Protection, the Alpine Rescue, the Italian Red Cross, ANPAS, the Forces of Order and the Armed Forces and the many volunteers. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group]] These are dysfunctions, delays and inefficiencies in relief, lack of assistance and prolonged interruptions of essential services unworthy of a civilised country. In the past, before the reform carried out by the Monti Government with decree-law 15 May 2012, n. 59, the Civil Protection was accused of not respecting the rules on contracts and of adopting measures derogating from the current legislation. However, it has now been noted by all that the management by some Commissioners of certain calamitous events in recent years has ended up penalising the whole system indiscriminately, producing the inability, the inefficiency and the lack of timeliness in preventing, facing and resolving the emergencies of these days. Above all, the chain of command should be streamlined and simplified and the head of the Civil Protection Department should be given full extraordinary powers, in derogation from current legislation. In essence, the existing powers must be brought back into force before Decree-Law No 59 of 2012 (converted by Law No 100 of 12 July 2012). The head of civil protection must be the only man in command, with powers conferred on the administrators involved. Moreover, it is necessary to specify well who does what, from when, with what hierarchy and in which territorial field, in order to avoid mechanisms of dischargebarile. It is also necessary to correct some key points of the current legislation that today prevent the immediate intervention by the Civil Protection, the Commissioner Delegate and the administrators. It is not possible that those who are called upon to handle the emergency are blocked by bureaucracy or even risk a judicial inquiry if they sign a document. Standard bureaucratic procedures cannot apply in the event of natural disasters and exceptional events that require rapid action to allow the return of normal living conditions to the population and to rebuild in rapid times when everything is destroyed. All public administrations functionally responsible for the single intervention, both for the emergency phase and for the reconstruction, must then be able to adopt negotiated procedures in order to accelerate the intervention and the choice of the operators in the award of the contracts of works, supplies and services. The rules of the Procurement Code already exist, but it needs to be established that the declaration of the state of emergency alone is already a valid justification for the use of negotiated procedures, without the need for further reasons. Economic operators must also be able to be selected quickly, taking into account the cost/urgent ratio and using the white lists in the prefectures or in the commissioner's structures, but respecting the principle of rotation. I would like to stress once again that today we are witnessing the inertia and blocking of the offices for fear of judicial investigations. According to our Group, however, in the event of an emergency, the conduct of the entities responsible for carrying out the individual contracts, without prejudice of course to the criminal complaints, must not give rise to criminal or administrative liability, excluding proven gross negligence. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group]] Finally, it is necessary to simplify the bureaucracy, the power of bureaucrats who afflict our public administration, for example by reducing to a quarter all administrative and procedural deadlines, including those for the proposition of possible appeals, in the event of disasters. All these proposals that I have mentioned, after listing the criticalities of the draft law under consideration, are nothing more than punctual measures to speed up the procedures and deburocratisation of the system and the instruments of intervention to the occurrence of natural disasters that have been the subject of our specific amendments to the Assembly that we trust can be seriously taken into account by the rapporteurs and the Government. Moreover, I repeat here what has been said in the Commissions 1st and 13th meeting: the text, in order to have accepted the constraints of the General Accounting of the State and of the Budget Commission, has been modified in relation to the one delivered by the House, where it will have to go back in any case; we therefore hope that it will come back with the transposition of amendments which we have tabled and which we consider absolutely of common sense. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-751.ana.u64	She is registered to speak Senator Valentini. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-751.ana.u65	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, the draft law we are debating today is all the more necessary and urgent. We all have in our eyes the voices, the faces and the dramatic experiences experienced by our fellow citizens victims of the earthquake or the bad weather and we are well aware of the effort of generosity and participation that has involved the whole country, as well as the commitment with which thousands of our fellow citizens, belonging to the Forces of Order, the Army, the Fire Department or as civil protection volunteers, have intervened to bring relief to the people of Central Italy with great courage, passion and spirit of service: it is a great lesson of humanity on a tragic page in the history of our country. To all of them, as to the men and women who have coordinated their work from all institutional levels, our commendation and thanks must go. We are an increasingly fragile country, in which the damage caused by years of carelessness, if not of bad management of the environment, come today to comb. To the structural problems of Italian morphology, are added the effects of the terrestrial overheating that, as now assumed by the scientific community, push towards a progressive growth of extreme weather events. In this situation, we therefore have a duty to prepare measures to prevent damage and, where this occurs, to reduce its effects on the territory and on the population. It is therefore necessary to adopt a law to reorganize and reorganize the instruments of prevention and civil protection. It is, of course, a delegation law which, within the framework that Parliament will decide to provide, will then have to be filled with content and operational measures. That is quite clear to us. That is why I would like to make a few very brief comments and calls on the Government to make it full of content. I believe that the law must necessarily assume, as an inspiring principle, the spread of the culture of resilience. A seemingly complicated word, but due to a key concept: putting communities, citizens, the territory in a position to resist and respond immediately to adverse events. Communities must be equipped and ready to resist any critical event that may occur. In order to do this, we need a great collective commitment and a strong general awareness, awareness and information of the citizens that involve the institutions, voluntary organizations, the many experiences of associations present in our cities and in our municipalities. The culture of resilience cannot be lowered from above - absolutely - but it must be shared at all levels, and above all it must be an integral and conscious part of the identity of a territory. Alongside this, a culture of responsibility needs to be structured. Everyone, especially the representatives of national, regional and territorial institutions, must feel part of a common path that assigns precise tasks and duties, different for each. The principle of responsibility is the basic tool for real prevention. It means preparing emergency plans in every municipality and province and preparing the tools to put them into operation when necessary. It means, always to give an example, that the mayor, as a civil protection authority, must know how to alert citizenship and what tools to prepare in anticipation of an adverse weather event or disaster. And its region of belonging must be able and prepared to protect and protect its municipalities by its first aid actions, by the laws of government, regional planning and prevention. Culture of resilience and responsibility must go hand in hand with a clear identification of tasks and their distribution at institutional level. This law was drawn up before the referendum on 4 December was rejected. It is therefore necessary to address the role of the regions and the involvement of different institutional levels in civil protection operations. For example, in the State-Regions Conference one could imagine to coordinate and harmonize, where possible, the regional laws for civil protection (each Region has its own) with respect to what will be the new national legislation. Finally, it is necessary to understand well what the functions, tasks and instruments of national civil protection will have to be. A first result, as has emerged in these months and days, seems to have already been achieved compared to the past, specifying how the technical direction of the rescue is assigned to the Firefighters' Corps. This was not the case in the past; Civil Protection is not the Firefighters' Corps and the Firefighters' Corps is not Civil Protection. When, with Senator Amati, we presented a proposal for a civil protection reform law and another re-modernization of the fire department, we had clear how this disorder, that there was also in the head of those who were directing within the Civil Protection Department, was a disaster. We have seen how, in the phases of this emergency, entrusting the technical direction of the rescue to the fire department, the first aid was simpler and even more effective. I would like to remind you here that yesterday the Italian firefighters were given the Oscar as the best in the world in relief. In this context, national civil protection must take on a fundamental role of coordination in the emergency. Fortunately, the phase we witnessed in the last decade has finally set in motion, in which it was also an instrument for the implementation of major events: an approach that has partly upset the very concept of civil protection, creating damage and defects that are not insignificant. Thanks also to the commitment of the new executives of civil protection and of the many volunteers, this has now returned to carry out its own functions, in a generous and commendable way. It is our task to provide this structure, with this proposal, with this law and with these delegations, not so much or not just new powers, but new instruments. Civil protection must become an integrated system of state powers and functions at all institutional levels. In fact, the Department must be able to coordinate the activities, including prevention, present in the state machine, exploiting the many skills, professionalism and excellence present in all sectors of the State and in the world of research and university. There are great technicians who have already studied planning and prevention projects and who must become part of this integrated system. The Department must be in a position to coordinate the commitment of the different institutional levels, in the front line - yes - in the organization of volunteering and emergency interventions. In this way it is clear that civil protection prevention and intervention should be the result of a common effort, following the principle of subsidiarity as a reference point for the organisation of the emergency. In this same context, the law must also provide in my opinion, possibly referring to circulars or implementing regulations, for a standardization of procedures with respect to emergency and reconstruction management: not only then does the "who" do what to prevent or for the first intervention, but also the "how" the State intervenes afterwards. The State must know first, in time of peace, how it intervenes afterwards; it cannot know when, but it must know very well how and what to do, assuming models and strategies as advanced as possible, that prevent the occurrence of differentiated procedures inherent in similar events. Let's think about the difference with which - fortunately - we are imagining the reconstruction of Central Italy, compared to what happened years ago in L'Aquila in 2009. It is right instead to have clear strategies, modalities of intervention and prerogatives before the occurrence of the event, also in order to avoid - as happened in the last month - the multiplication of decrees-laws and circulars after the crisis, because we are not ready to intervene. Knowing how to act is the first step to do it well and quickly; assigning powers by law as a special derogation for reconstruction, if necessary. This is the only way in which we can respect the rights of all citizens, which is the latter which I think the law must absolutely protect. Finally - I say this briefly - in the bill presented by me together with Senator Amati there was an article on the Charter of Citizens' Rights before and after the earthquake, before and after the state of disaster. A legal obligation, not a munificence of the State, which intervenes and compensates; a legal obligation that guarantees the right to information, transparency and at certain times before and after the state of calamity. It was not possible to accept the amendment, because there was the problem that we had to do soon, but I was told that it was transformed into an agenda. It is a very important agenda for me, because it is a fundamental issue. I believe that this future law, if properly nouned during the delegation phase, can help to build with certainty our system of rules, procedures and funding to act well and quickly and give timely answers to the citizens and territories affected and give our country security and serenity. [[Applause from the PD Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-751.ana.u66	He's enlisted to speak Senator Candiani. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-751.ana.u67	Madam President, the measure before us comes to a House that would appear distracted by the importance of it, but we have, unfortunately, become accustomed to this scenario. On the other hand, our fellow citizens, those who work in civil protection and those who are waiting or who have experienced the relief of civil protection these days are not distracted. They are not distracted because they know what is going on and they know exactly what problems and difficulties are. I do not want to talk about deficiencies or efficiencies, I am talking about difficulties. In the days following the earthquake in Amatrice, with Senator Arrigoni I went to the earthquake zones and the situation that occurred before the eyes was that of a deployment of resources, energies, people and impressive means. There were means of all kinds and categories along the roads: a deployment of extraordinary forces. Faced with this, after a few days, already came, by the local populations, the lamentation of ineffective support and support. So we immediately asked ourselves a question: what was going on? Civil Protection had deployed with helicopters and vehicles of all kinds, the fire department had arrived and everything else, but then, going to the areas of the disaster, we even found citizens - like a disabled person in Norcia - who told us: Do us a favor. Get the Civil Protection out of the boxes. A shocking statement but one that had in itself the anger of those who had a problem to solve, perhaps related to their situation of disabled, and was faced with limits that we could call bureaucratic or hierarchical - let's call them as you want - that had nothing to do with common sense, efficiency and effectiveness that instead should be underlying an emergency intervention by civil protection. These are also paradoxical situations with the earthquake-stricken citizens who were waiting to return or go to their homes to save those few assets that remained but could not count on the support of Civil Protection because the only ones allowed to enter the red zone are the fire department. It is clear that this means that we have passed from a system of extreme efficiency (let's also call it so) intrudence and intervention capacity (and I think of the Civil Protection after earthquake at L'Aquila) to a system that moves with deployment of forces but that then results to the effects unable to deal effectively with the problems and to solve them, with further - unfortunately dramatic - confirmations in the days that followed the successive earthquake shocks up to the last episodes that have superimposed the dramatic snowfall and the misfortune of the Hotel Rigopiano. All circumstances that say that a civil protection system in Italy existed. I am Varesotto and I know that from Varese comes the creator and the founder of Civil Protection, Zamberletti, and I remember hearing more than once in his words the experience of a person proud of the work done, of having created a system of civil protection that, as it had developed, was an example for other countries in the world, where disasters and difficulties did not come and were not faced with the same efficiency. So I wonder, where did this whole system go? Where did he get lost? Why was it dismantled? It could be enough to look at economic resources, a figure that already provides an answer: economic resources have been reduced dramatically. We have gone from the EUR 2 billion allocated for the Civil Protection of the times of Bertolaso - by convention we can call them that - to the figure of EUR 380 million of the current budget. However, this is a very easy answer: that is not the point. If resources, albeit scarce, are not available to an organized, efficient and responsible structure, they remain wasted resources or even resources that do not have any effect, which arrive late. Late relief is worse than not to bring it, because it produces frustration in our fellow citizens, than in the face of what is described as an efficient system they are, instead, in the emergency, dealing with the inefficiencies of bureaucracy. I want to say to the representative of the government and to the speakers: it was already understood, since the first and then the second decree-law on the earthquake, which were merged into a single provision, that today to overcome the challenge are not the common sense of men, the organization, the ability and the determination of those who must decide knowing that, at that moment, his decision depends on life or death or the solution for a situation of disaster. Today it is the race that, through procedures, procedures and stamps, justifies the actions that must be done. The decree-law on the earthquake for two thirds - and I do not exaggerate, because I could say even for three quarters - as we all know and cannot be hidden, is composed of procedures. If the system has been reduced to "procedural" the intervention actions, it can be described by the figurative image of the person who, having to do a rescue, does not do so because he does not possess the ability to do so, even if he has the ability to do so. This is what needs to be rebuilt: to put the common sense and effectiveness of the action before the bureaucracy and the satisfaction of a formal need, in order not to incur the clutches of some judicial investigation. You see, Madam President, speaking with the mayors - I think of the mayor of Norcia, but also those of Amatrice, Visso and the other municipalities - I found myself in front of people who say: I was elected and I have responsibilities. Probably in the end there will also be an investigation, because it is inevitable when there are such commitments and requests for resources, but at least let me decide! Let me take responsibility and, responsibly, make choices for my community, because others are not doing so. That Civil Protection has dealt, in some moments of recent history, with facts that have nothing to do with the emergency is known and known and in this case there has been a overflow from its functions: I think of the use of Civil Protection for the management of the Jubilee. It was well managed - fantastic! - but this certainly exorbitates from an emerging fact. This could not be a justification (and it was certainly a mistake) for those who - and I am thinking of successive governments - took the opportunity to disassemble the civil protection apparatus, eventually removing the responsibility of the man who is in charge, so today we even get to the paradox of having a civil protection manager - I think Dr Curcio - flanked by a commissioner for reconstruction, when still today the emergency is in progress and we do not even know where the reconstruction will start. There is, however, certainly a weakening of the chain of command, where multi-party competences are not absorbed by those who have to decide. Who is the man who decides? I say this to the rapporteurs, thinking of the amendments that we have prepared: it is necessary that those who have the responsibility to decide at times of emergency should have the greatest responsibility and, knowing that this figure has the utmost responsibility, when he abuses or goes beyond, he will also pay a maximum penalty. But responsibility must be recognized to him and, with responsibility, the ability to do one's duty without fear of being called to respond simply because, perhaps, someone, in carrying out an investigation, has a fear of protagonism. Because even these things in Italy, unfortunately, we are used to seeing them. When we talked about the civil liability of the judiciary we have heard several times that no limit can be placed on those who have to judge. In a system that works, that's true. It must also be clear that those who have the responsibility to save a person, to save a life or to meet the needs of an emergency must be placed in a position to carry out their duty without having to first think about how to justify what they are going to do. Otherwise, there will be no mayor, there will be no responsible, there will be no administrator who cares because, if an administrator, a good mayor, after having done his duty, he should find himself answering before the judicial authority, being acquitted after years of judgment, simply because the person who moved the judicial action was moved by spirit of protagonism or, worse still, because the illations took the field, would result in a further paralysis of the system. These kinds of considerations must be made. You have to have the courage to do it, because it is evident in the eyes of a blind man that things as they are no longer work. Is Civil Protection working in the earthquake zones? I wonder. I ask you. Because what I remember being Civil Protection was acting. Here, unfortunately, there is good will in the hands of men who do not have a chain of command able to exploit their experience and abilities. But it is also a visible situation from the media point of view. We have passed since the times of a Bertolaso who was present to every action, with press conferences and televisions to follow, to - without disrespect to anyone - unspeakable figures who are made appear on television to read statements of Civil Protection. This gives the visual, tangible, material, plastic idea of degeneration and demise to which our Civil Protection has been subjected over time. And it is no coincidence that, in the circumstances that are transcribed by the media, in the spotlight there are always firemen, because today the same have been loaded with responsibilities and tasks that were previously shared or would have been shared with Civil Protection. We expect clear answers from this measure on these issues. We are not satisfied with how it came to this House, because this measure did not come along a virtuous path, with the legislator or with the Government who, having meditated on the difficulties, decided that it was time to put civil protection back in hand to restore efficiency to the system. We know very well that, by taking the ball at the leap of a proposal made by Mr Mussini, the majority of the Government, on the emotional wave, last week decided to bring the measure to the Chamber without the completion of the procedure in the Commission. Now, some reflections have been made in the meantime, but we want to see the final result. Knowing, moreover, that the measure contains a delegation to the Government, and that, as a delegated measure, is already in itself very far from the efficient, effective and extremely determined action that would be needed. Above all, we know one thing, and we tell the government not to look for an alibi in this measure to say that it will not happen again: at this moment there are still earthquakes in the tents, in the cold! [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group]] At this moment there is still an emergency action that is not being met. At the moment there are still farmers who do not have the possibility nor have they had the opportunity to reach their own farms, with the beasts that are dead or dying. This is still happening today. These are the things for which you have responsibility, for which it is the responsibility of those who now have the management of civil protection and the Commissioner for Reconstruction, for whom we are still asking ourselves today for the reason for their existence. Efficiency is the answer to the emergency, not the political appointment of a Commissioner for reconstruction that does not even have the basis for existence! I am ashamed of that embrace that the former President of the Council Renzi gave here to his colleague and associate Renzo Piano, who since then we have not seen again, neither here nor in the Commission, for what was to be the project of the reconstruction of Casa Italia. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group]] It is time to end with those declarations, to be efficient and to give serious answers, to live up to a country that lives problems on its own skin and not in theory or in political proclamation. So, I tell my colleague Renzo Piano to come to the Senate a few more times to tell us what he wants to do. Once less when there are cameras and once more in the Commission when it is necessary to write the measures, as in this case and as in the case of the Casa Italia measure, which we still do not know today. However, we know that, under the tents and waiting for boxes that have become containers, there are still our citizens of Norcia, Visso, Umbria, Marche, Abruzzo and Lazio and, God willing, no one else in the future. This is the reality that we are living. You have no alibi to hide behind this provision the failure of civil protection managed by the Renzi and Gentiloni governments. Curcio's serious about what's going on. Take his responsibilities and, if he is prevented, denounce the government action that forbids him to take them. If he's prevented from making someone look bad, say so. No further delay can be justified. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-751.ana.u68	She's enlisted to speak Senator Fissore. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-751.ana.u69	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, representative of the Government, rapporteurs, I would like to remind you, before I make my brief speech, that we did not have the opportunity in this House to recall another serious event that struck our country on 23 and 24 November. (at 19.18) (Fissore followed). In Piedmont and Liguria there was a great flood that hit a large part of the territory and caused two deaths. It passed into the general silence of the press because Sunday was the referendum and Monday was no longer the government. I want to remember this event, because it is the first moment that gives me the opportunity. And I want to point out to the Government, that it will have to implement the implementing decrees, and to the rapporteurs, who are working on the bill, the problems that our territory is having in this post-flood phase. I do not intend to take up some of the issues that have been mentioned by all, majority and opposition, regarding action in the emergency, i.e. when the calamitous event takes place, which must be immediate. The calamitous event after two or three days ends and leaves the cities in a difficult situation. My city, Moncalieri, had in one night 1,800 displaced for the break in two points of the embankment of a tributary of the Po, the Chisola, which is under the management of the Interregional Agency for the River Po (AIPO). It is a historical embankment, which had an ordinary maintenance but did not withstand the full, occurred a day after the end of the insistent rains. What's going on? After the first emergency intervention, where we all mobilized to help people get out of their homes (and pick them up with boats, to understand each other), going to take sick people, children and babies stuck in their homes, with a great effort of Civil Protection, the Municipality and all the citizenship (which, unfortunately, is accustomed to these events, not being the first time they occur), now the management of the post intervention, after the declaration of the state of emergency, is quite nebulous. It is true that the state of emergency has been declared with the last Council of Ministers, but the Commissioner was appointed only on 16 January and the rules that are set out in the order are not clear. In my opinion, seeing what is happening on the ground, it is necessary that procedures with respect to what will be implemented be transparent, that clear deadlines and responsibilities be established. The regions - in our case our President has been appointed Commissioner - must give precise indications to the mayors for the management of the post-emergency. I'll explain. Following the events of Emilia-Romagna, which, as you know, have been very catastrophic, the Civil Protection has arranged two phases of intervention: phase 1 and phase 2. We are now in phase 1: the detection of damage by individuals, businesses and municipalities. However, there are no precise indications from the Regions to the municipalities, for example when this phase should be completed, beyond the 90 days of time for delivery to the State. In addition, the Commissioner's appointment order provides for contributions for self-employment, i.e. for those families who cannot, until now or for a part of the time, return to their homes and who therefore have to emigrate to rented houses or relatives and are many. This part of the procedure is not specified in the modalities, it is left to the freedom of the Regions and the mayors, and in our Region, as far as I understand, have not yet been given clear indication to the municipalities. This is creating problems, because you understand well that those who are homeless and need to settle down somewhere else must have speed in their response, cannot wait a month for the commissioner to be indicated and then for you to think and decide how these supports must be given to pay for an alternative home. Another problem that is not clarified by the procedure is the blocking of outstanding loans for families affected by events, on the basis of an agreement between banks and consumer associations (which would be partly to be reviewed), but it is not an automatic process: who informs the banks? And again, as far as companies are concerned. We, for example, have our second industrial zone, which is artisanal, which has been completely flooded. For these companies, the obligations arising from tax constraints should be automatically blocked and, of course, the suspension of loans should be suspended by supporting them in overcoming this phase. For them, too, the detection of damage is being done at this stage, but I am told that both for individuals and for companies the damages will be settled not before two or three years. You understand that this means, for certain economic zones, for certain realities of residence, to abandon those companies and those territories, because it is not possible, if one has lost everything, to be able to start again in the activity, even if we Piedmontese have already rolled up the sleeves and we have broken down. Similarly, it is not expected that those who have lost the car can be reimbursed for this movable property (only real estate). It may seem trivial, but we know that this is also a big problem for many families: for example, a family that I am following has a handicapped child and had a car set up for this boy, but it cannot be reimbursed. It is necessary to clarify these passages and make them automatic without having to wait for decrees, because the emergency has three phases: the critical moment, this phase of limbo and then the reconstruction. The limbo phase is destructive. I would like to remind you that Piedmont and the Po Plain are areas of frequent floods, because the Po and its tributaries cycle out of the beehives. The last intemperances were different, because while before the water was slowly rising, the last two times we had torrential episodes, which also caught us unawares in the management of the predisposition of the escape. In the past years many works had already been prepared for safety, but then they have not been realized: either because the mission unit does not have the money, or because the AIPO has to think about it, or because the Municipality has to think about it, in Piedmont a whole series of embankments and rolling tanks already planned for years are still and you cannot understand how to unlock them even when the money was destined. On this point, too, I agree with the rapporteur's position on the mission unit and the register where all the funding for these works is presented, because the mayors, in order to meet these needs, have duplicated their requests on all available notices. So you have to make a summary, check up this data and start the work. Finally, I want to make a short-term proposal. As some Members have pointed out, the problem has often been the grip that the Stability Pact has placed on our municipalities about the possibility of spending the available funds. Well, why do we not propose this year that the vertical pact and the horizontal pact between the Regions, the State and the Municipalities be used primarily to finance this type of intervention, also giving a practical response to those Municipalities that need to act and that have the willingness to do so, since some Municipalities have the availability on the leftovers? [[Applause from the PD Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-751.ana.u70	Senator Marinello is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-751.ana.u71	Mr President, I will of course not explain the measure, because this is a task for the two rapporteurs, the Senators Caleo and Collina, and I think they have done it well. Nor, of course, do I want to make a long and complex intervention. On the other hand, I would like to confine myself to a number of considerations. I have listened to some of the speeches made by my previous speakers and I have heard some completely off-the-shelf arguments: those who have confused this parliamentary moment with a moment of inspection union, with a moment of political denunciation or with a sort of act of direction; those who have used the political debate with rhetorical and sometimes demagogic arguments or even to create alarmism. I believe that this matter is absolutely serious and a matter of such seriousness, in my opinion, must be dealt with by the legislator in a compound manner. We are dealing with a delegation law that rationalises, modernises and homogenizes the civil protection system that, as we all know, was born in 1992 and represents one of the excellences of our country. It is clear, however, that since 1992 countless calamitous events have taken place - alas - and, above all, since 1992, the machine, which has worked, needs not a restyling but some important changes. This is essentially the meaning of the bill and this is the work that colleagues have done mainly in the other branch of Parliament. We know, in fact, that, above all, the other branch of Parliament has worked hard on this measure. In the Senate we had, in fact, little time: the two Commissions, 1st and 13th, carried out a series of hearings and an activity of deepening, but obviously the times, not of politics, but of the country have determined that this text arrived at the Assembly as an emergency measure to arrive at a rapid definition. If we lose sight of these essential elements, we return to rhetoric, alarmism, demagogy. Since, as I said before, the issue is of considerable importance and is absolutely serious, it is quite clear that not only can we not allow it, but also the country cannot To afford it. On the basis of these considerations, I believe that the draft law has basically a number of merits. It has the merit of homogenizing a system, of establishing a set of principles and priorities, giving, in my opinion, to civil protection those tasks that it has in itself. Over the course of these years, in fact, there has been some confusion and has overwhelmed the role of civil protection. Essentially, civil protection intervenes in the face of major disasters, in the protection of human life and, at the time of the emergency, also in the protection of productive activities; but, overcome and addressed the moment of the emergency, other institutions are the ones that must provide for the restoration and the return to normality. I believe that the measure is essentially in this direction. Mr President, this measure differentiates between responsibilities, levels of administrative management and levels of authorisation. Above all, the President-in-Office of the Council has an important role to play, assigning to him an activity of direction and coordination, to be carried out using the Department of Civil Protection and the functions and structures of the Presidency of the Council. There are other qualifying points in this law provision, such as the involvement of universities and research institutes, and little has been said about this. Clearly, today the system for forecasting major risks and natural disasters is not that of forty or fifty years ago, nor of 1992. Among other things, today the means made available by new technologies, research and university, not only to deal with the emergency, but also to manage it better and then be able to proceed actively to the restoration of normality, are more evolved. It is clear, therefore, that this system must be homogeneous and integrated with the civil protection system. The measure also has the merit of defining the system of operation to regime also from the financial point of view, assigning endowments in the law of stability and defining the procedures for the eventual integration, guaranteeing the fundamental requirements of transparency and traceability of the financial flows. However, I must make a political point. We are certainly doing well by trying to approve the draft law under consideration. However, we are well aware that, in order to become operational, the measure requires implementing decrees and measures which, once adopted by the Council of Ministers, will have to be examined by the competent parliamentary committees before they arrive at a real and effective implementation. All this obviously requires Parliament to act quickly, but well, and the Government to take serious responsibility. In this House, we have heard President Gentiloni Silveri make specific commitments. Since we know how to be President Gentiloni Silveri a serious person and, we could say in the Shakespearean sense, even a person of honor, we are convinced that he will do everything to fulfil these commitments. This also opens up another more important issue on days when - it is my personal opinion and I do not intend to engage my party and its leadership - there are centrifugal pressures that tend to favour selfishness, personal interests, personal ambitions or spirit of revenge and revenge over many other games. I believe that, in this situation, it is time to make the country's interest and sense of responsibility prevail. Today Italy and the Italian citizens are asking politics and Parliament not to fight or quarrel, and moreover, we have also seen in the international markets (the increase in the spread in recent days proves it) the results of these fights and the climate that today prevails not in Parliament, but in Italian politics as a whole. As I said earlier, Parliament and, above all, the Government must show a sense of responsibility and capacity to assume that responsibility. Here we are at the moment of the discrimination between those who want to be a servant of the State, those who want to work for the common good, those who perhaps legitimately aspire to be considered a statesman and those who instead are a man who thinks only of his own shop. It is for this reason that we must approve the draft law under consideration. However, it will then be important the work that we will do as responsible parliamentarians especially in the relevant Commissions (I speak by committing this time the Commission territory, environment, environmental goods and my colleague Caleo), pressing the Government to take consequent measures in the best possible way and in a time reasonably useful for the country. [[Applause from the PD Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-751.ana.u72	He's enlisted to speak Senator Lucidi. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-751.ana.u73	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, representative of the Government, many words have already been used not only on the draft law under consideration, but also on previous measures that have touched on the issue of civil protection and emergencies. I do not repeat that we are still faced with exceptional events, not only because of their historical significance, but also because of the series of concauses and contemporaneity between these events. One of the lessons that we must absolutely learn from what happened in the months behind us is that all this has highlighted strong criticalities in our country and, above all, how many mistakes have been made in the past in the sector. With reference to Provinces, Forest Corps of the State and Army, we have also seen many positives, for example, to the efficiency of fire department. However, if, as Senator Marinello has just said, we are a responsible political class, we must assume our responsibilities, taking advantage of this lesson. This is a time when we must establish and redo the point of the situation on the real needs of our country and on our priorities, which most probably up to now have been others. In these hours we have received news of the fact that, fortunately, the Ministry of the environment and the protection of the territory and the sea has rejected a measure of so-called green path between Orte and Civitavecchia, therefore, evidently, so green was not. It is clear that for too many years our priorities, or rather your priorities, have been very far from the real needs of the country and above all from the expectations of the citizens. Someone said that war is won in peacetime. Unfortunately, the phenomena of recent months have shown that we have actually been very unprepared. I would like to point out that the draft law delegation of the revision of the civil protection system was firm since before these calamitous events happened, and this says a lot about the fact that we have found ourselves unprepared. In my opinion, we must now analyse (as we did in the amending phase) the past, the present and the future of this structure. I have collected and analysed some points that I believe are important to discuss, even to be left on the record as a trace of our work, and surely we will need a work of reconnaissance and coordination of all the existing actions, by Civil Protection. What has happened has evidenced another fundamental aspect: in these months we have noticed the great state of criticality of the public building in Italy. I'm talking about schools, hospitals. In these hours, in the cities affected by the earthquake many schools are in a situation of uncertainty: we do not know if they are accessible, we do not know who has the responsibility, there are committees of parents who ask for closure, mayors who order reopening. It is clear that there is a legal and institutional chaos that we should have filled in the past and this is combined with other critical issues, such as the famous fire prevention certificates, of which many schools in Italy are deprived. This is due to the fact that we have not set our actual priorities. In my view, there are two other important elements in the action of civil protection, the first of which is the role of our universities. Along with some of my colleagues, I presented an exhibit at the Public Prosecutor's Office in Spoleto, because, just downstream of the earthquake on 24 August, a group of researchers from the University of Perugia carried out inspections of some churches in Val Nerina and listed a series of measures to be taken that were, however, disregarded. The events of October 30, then, caused the collapse of those buildings, therefore an ordinary of building science has even ruled publicly: no longer look for our structures because we no longer want to help them. This leads to a huge institutional meltdown, and it is a problem that we must be absolutely able to solve. Next to this there is a network of national laboratories that have been working on seismic engineering for years. A long time ago, I read an article that praised a lab in the United States that tests masonry structures to verify the resistance to earthquakes, but between us and Milan there will be 20 of these labs: we must be able to assert our excellences and above all we must be able not to let them die. I quote, in this regard, an example. Umbria is an integral part of the crater of the earthquake of 2016. The President of the Region loudly calls for aid and funding, but at the same time exists in the city where I live, Terni, a laboratory, owned by the Region, which has great excellences in seismic verification of the structures that have been shut down. Then, this means and justifies even more what I said earlier: the fact that we were not able to identify the priorities of our country. I used to talk about past, present and future. Let's look to the future and do it from a different perspective. I say this because this legislature has also been characterized by the introduction of a very important measure, Law 68 of 2015, the law on eco-reactors, which introduced, among other things, the crime of damage and environmental disaster. So, if we really want to be a modern ruling and political class, we should probably give a signal. And the signal is: when can we talk about natural disasters and when can civil protection - for example - intervene? In my opinion, civil protection should be called into question, not only - as is right - for events such as earthquakes and floods, but also in all those cases where our citizens must fight against equally disastrous events, such as those linked to industrial pollution. And, therefore, we have tabled amendments, precisely to give a signal of novelty and attention to a world that we believe must be much more attentive to the needs of the country. I close my speech by simply saying that it is true that there have been exceptional events, but it is also true that our country had already known them. Most likely the mistake has been made in not recognizing the priorities of our country: we speak of seismic fragility, hydrogeological failure and also of public building (schools, hospitals and everything that concerns the community). In the delegation to the Government for the revision of the civil protection system we will have to give a great boost to the classification, once and for all, of the real problems and real priorities of our country. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-751.ana.u74	I shall refer the following to another session of the debate on the draft law.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-751.ana.u75	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-751.ana.u76	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-751.ana.u77	STEFANO (Misto-MovPugliaMore). Mr President, my speech at the end of the sitting is to ask, through the presidency of the Senate, for the Minister of Economic Development to come and report to the House on what is happening at the Ilva in Taranto in the last few hours. Today the unions have abandoned the table with the company as a result of the announcement, by the same, of 5,000 redundancies in the plant of Taranto and the forecast for these 5,000 of the extraordinary integration fund. We are faced with a real social drama that is added to an employment crisis that has been going on for a long time and which, moreover, has increased cycles. I would therefore ask you, Mr President, to give an authoritative reminder to the Government in order to try to recover a space to update this House on the intentions that the Government has regarding the clear request, addressed today by the trade unions, which highlights the need, by now no longer possible, to institutionalize the confrontation between the parties. It is my duty, to conclude, to remember how it is necessary for the government to find time and way to solve this tragedy. Some have already been put on the table: I am referring, for example, to the preparation of a derogation from the solidarity contract or to an intervention on the decree for the South, with an ad hoc amendment that can help to recover the economic guarantees that the solidarity contract includes and that instead the integration fund does not provide. In the face of this social drama, I believe that the Government has a duty to inform Parliament and above all to intervene. [[Applause from Senator Albano.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-751.ana.u78	Of course, it is right that Senator Stefano should be called upon, for which the Presidency will take responsibility.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-751.ana.u79	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-751.ana.u80	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-751.ana.u81	GRANAIOLA (PD). Mr President, Mauro Moretti's sentence today to seven years as former CEO of RFI in the trial for the massacre of Viareggio, although in my opinion it is not satisfactory compared to the accusations, which went from the railway disaster to multiple manslaughter, from the fire to the manslaughter, finally records a change of pace in the justice of our country. Unlike so many tragedies in recent years - I remember one of them all: that of the Moby Prince, with 139 deaths and no culprits - there was finally a conviction. Certainly the extent of the sentence is little - seven years compared to the sixteen demanded by the prosecution - and it will not be of great comfort to the family members of the victims, who have fought so much for truth and justice. I still remember, in the last parliamentary term, when I was hearing at the 8th Commission engineer Moretti said that the railway disaster that caused the deaths of 32 people, including children, had been an unfortunate accident. I remember the indignation that stirred up that statement in me and in all of us that day. Since then I have never ceased to follow the stages of the trial and to condemn all the evil statements that Moretti, his lawyers and the various characters called into question have continued to do with great arrogance, offending the memory of the victims and accentuating the pain and anger of the family members. I have challenged several times the conferment of the cavalry to Moretti by the Head of State. I expect for decency, therefore, the immediate resignation of Moretti from all the positions held until today (too many, too many), starting from that of CEO of Finmeccanica. I also expect the presidency of the Republic to revoke the cavalry. And I still have in my heart the hope that in second instance the penalties may be revised and adapted to the gravity of the facts, not to invoke revenge or cruelty, but to respect family members and victims, who unfortunately will never be returned to their families. I also hope that this will be a warning to those who are responsible for the safety of our rail network and our railways. There are still too many accidents, which show that there is still a lot to do and that a management that looks only at savings and that cuts on security is unholy and unworthy of a country that wants to be defined civil. [[Applause from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-751.ana.u82	The motions, questions and questions received by the Presidency will be published in Annex B to today's report.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-751.ana.u83	The Senate will meet again tomorrow, Wednesday 1 February, in two public sessions, the first at 9.30 a.m. and the second at 16.30, with the following agenda: (See agenda) The sitting was closed at 7.55 p.m.
