ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-831.ana.u1	The sitting was opened at 16:01. The Minutes shall be read. Mr Petraglia, secretary, read the Minutes of the afternoon sitting of the previous day. PRESIDENT. - The debate is Since there were no comments, the Minutes were approved.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-831.ana.u2	The list of senators on leave and absent on assignment received from the Senate, as well as further communications to the Assembly, will be published in Annex B to today's Minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-831.ana.u3	The next item is the holding of questions. Question 3-02305 on the establishment of a cross-border controlled designation of origin between Italy and Slovenia for terrestrial wine will be first raised. The representative of the Government may answer this question.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-831.ana.u4	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to point out that the Minister and the competent offices of the Ministry, in collaboration with the Region of Friuli-Venezia Giulia, have been active, since autumn 2015, supporting the initiatives of wine producers of the Trieste Karst, in order to resolve the problem through the creation of the cross-border PDO Italy-Slovenia Teran. I would also point out that at the last meeting of the working group, consisting of representatives of the Ministry, the Region of Friuli-Venezia Giulia, the Slovenian authorities and the representatives of the producers of the two countries, the technical and procedural elements for the submission of the application for protection of the cross-border PDO have been developed. Moreover, I would point out that this is the first case of cross-border PDO for our country, so it is a new and, for this reason, also particularly relevant. In particular, a first evaluation of a common disciplinary was carried out and technical-historical elements were acquired to prove that the Terrano vine, registered in Italy, is actually synonymous with Refosk, registered in Slovenia. To standardize the regulations in Italy, at the request of the Friuli-Venezia Giulia Region, it has been registered in the National Register of vine varieties called Refosk. Following the evaluation of the two countries, with their success, the application will be forwarded to the European Commission. With regard to the second question of the question, it is ensured that this Ministry will make available to the wine operators of the Karst the equipped structure of the headquarters of Gorizia of the Council for the research in agriculture and the analysis of the agricultural economy (Crea), in order to support the activity of cross-border research and experimentation. In particular, the reorganization of the Crea has identified twelve research centers, including the center of viticulture and enology, which is also aggregated the research group of Gorizia. The centre thus established contains within itself the skills necessary for the development of the wine production chain. The conduct of research activities at the centre, always inspired by agro-ecological criteria and the maximization of eco-system services, promotes environmental protection and mitigates climate change. Finally, the future laboratory of Gorizia of the center of viticulture and wine making, because of its geographical location, will be able to further promote the development of the wine sector and reach levels of excellence, favoring positive synergies to the benefit of the whole supply chain.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-831.ana.u5	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-831.ana.u6	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-831.ana.u7	PHASE (PD). Madam President, I repeat by expressing my deep satisfaction with the answer and I hope that the working table will soon finish its work. Of course, we are also very happy to open a period of cooperation and cooperation between the PDOs at cross-border level. I am also satisfied with the second answer, with the support that the Minister intends to give to a joint operation and research activity, because it is inevitable that, being wine growing beyond and beyond a border that is no longer there, cooperation and cooperation become a natural fact, including research and training activities for the younger generations. Thank you, Mr. Deputy Minister.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-831.ana.u8	Following is the question 3-03372 on the opportunity of joint naval exercises with the Iranian Navy. The representative of the Government may answer this question.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-831.ana.u9	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, on 27 September 2016, as reported by the Navy, at the time of its departure from the Iranian port of Bandar Abbas, the Euro vessel conducted symbolic naval training activities with the Iranian Navy. It was a matter of exchange activities that it is customary to carry out - moreover without interfering with the operational activities already planned - between the military marines, when one arrives or departs from a foreign port or during occasional encounters at sea. In this context, the activities carried out did not raise any surprise among the allies. In fact, there was in no way a decrease in the content of the bilateral relationship with any of the military Marines of the Allied countries. Having said that, in order to find Senator Malan's specific request, it is stated that no military exercises are currently planned with Iran.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-831.ana.u10	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-831.ana.u11	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-831.ana.u12	MALAN (FI-PdL XVII). Madam President, I would like to thank Mr Alfano for his reply, which I consider reassuring. If it really is a custom, we must consider it that way. Above all, I am reassured that no other exercises of this kind are planned. The enthusiasm of some members of the Government for Iran has been manifested in much less usual ways, i.e. with trips and invitation to reciprocal investments (especially Italians in Iran). This is something that I certainly consider to be negative from a purely economic point of view. In fact, I do not believe that a country where democracy is subjected - for the explicit mention of its Constitution - to the summit of a so-called Shiite clergy is a country where the right, even that which concerns our companies and the protection of our investments, can have great guarantees. If these joint maneuvers have had an episodic character and do not prelude to any other kind of cooperation in the military field, I am certainly satisfied and I thank the Undersecretary Alfano for his reply.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-831.ana.u13	The following question 3-02116 on the reclamation of the Orbetello lagoon, in the province of Grosseto. The representative of the Government may answer this question.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-831.ana.u14	Madam President, with regard to environmental issues relating to the Orbetello lagoon, on the basis of the elements acquired, the following is to be seen. As a preliminary point, it should be pointed out that the anoxic and dystrophic crises are part of the typical cyclical processes of the lagoon environments. The correlation of the specific characteristics of this lagoon ecosystem, with the occurrence of the attainment of high summer temperatures, has led to the large macroalgal development that took place during the period in question and the consequent triggering of the dystrophic phenomenon. As is well known, the lagoon of Orbetello-Lago di Burano is affected by the presence of four Natura 2000 sites, whose management is delegated to the Tuscany Region. There are also two nature reserves, one of which is state and one of which is regional, and there is also a Ramsar wetland. It should also be noted that, by decree of the Minister of the Environment of 22 December 2016, the sites of Community importance (SIC) "Laguna di Orbetello" (Laguna di Orbetello), "Duna del Lago di Burano" (Lago di Burano) and "Lago di Burano" (Lago di Burano) have been officially designated as Special Areas of Conservation (ZSC) and therefore the conservation measures developed under the Habitat Directive are in force on these sites. The Region of Tuscany, competent in this field, has indicated that it has declared the state of regional emergency for the exceptional event that has affected the lagoon in July 2015. In the emergency phase, as foreseen by the agreement between the Region itself, the Province of Grosseto and the Municipality of Orbetello, a special technical-scientific committee was convened to overcome the emergency. The Region has evidenced to have provided for the transfer to the Municipality of Orbetello of the resources demanded in order to ensure that the latter could intervene for the question posed. The Regional Agency for the Environmental Protection of Tuscany (ARPAT), at the request of the Region, in order to prevent any negative effects on the quality of bathing water, carried out, again in July 2015, a daily monitoring on the microbiological characteristics of the waters coming out of the lagoon and issued a daily bulletin with the results of the aforementioned surveys. The Tuscany Region itself has also indicated that it is developing a strategy on measures to safeguard and protect the environmental conservation of the Orbetello lagoon and this, in particular, with measures that recover and systematize the discipline already dictated for individual parts of the lagoon itself, as well as defining a protection discipline for the entire Site of Community importance (SIC) and the Special Protection Zone (ZPS). With reference to the area called Patanella, it is noted that the same has been inserted within the perimeter of the Site of National Interest (SIN) of Orbetello-area former Siteco, with the last enlargement occurred with the order of the President of the Council of Ministers n. 3.841 of 2010. During the Commissarial period, this area was the site of a disposal plant for the algal masses removed from the lagoon during the summer period. In the framework of the Conference of Services of November 2013 was approved, with prescriptions, the characterisation plan of the aforementioned area of Patanella. As regards the public areas facing the former Siteco plant, in which the presence of silica and pyrite ash with heavy metals has been found, the possibility of removing and disposing of such waste has already been evaluated. However, given the enormous quantity to be removed and the difficulty of landfilling, alternative assumptions are being considered in order to arrive at an environmentally sound but also economically sustainable solution, especially in view of the fact that they are SIC and SPA areas. These and other interventions in the areas of public competence, to date internal to the perimeter of the SIN of Orbetello-Area ex Siteco, are the subject of the new Agreement of program in phase of perfection. For complete information, it is represented that the Ministry of the environment has prepared the Plan of participations for the protection of the territory and the waters, already approved in 2016 from the Cabin of direction instituted on 25 February 2016, and from CIPE, in which were identified, among others, strategic and priority interventions of reclamation in the SIN in question, for a total amount of approximately 38 million euros. With reference to the activities of the commissioner's management for the environmental rehabilitation of the Orbetello lagoon, particular attention is given to the collection, transport and valorization of algal biomass and management of hydraulic recycling systems. For these assets the following amounts have been cleared: 871,000 euros for the period from August to October 2011; little more than 289,000 euros for the period from March to May 2012; little more than 652,000 euros for the period from May to June 2012; 654.576 euros from July to August 2012 and 459.877 euros in the period from August to September 2012. It is also worth noting: the extraordinary maintenance work on access to the storage facility for algal biomass in Patanella (for which € 101,860 was paid off, which is added to the previous ones), environmental adaptation work for the temporary plant in Pantanella (for which € 507,127 was paid off), as well as the safety clearance work between the lagoon and the areas relating to public ownership in front of the former siteco plant, where 134,920 euros were cleared for this activity. Commissioner management has also carried out activities related to the reclamation of the SIN following the Agreement of program signed between the Ministry of the Environment, the Tuscany Region, the Province of Grosseto, the Municipality of Orbetello, the Icram and the Commissioner Delegate. These activities consist essentially of studies and designs provided for in specific conventions. It should be noted that the Commissarial period ceased with the Civil Protection Order n. 31 on December 13, 2012, in order to promote the regular takeover of the Tuscany Region in the initiatives aimed at the definitive environmental rehabilitation of the Orbetello lagoon. As regards the activities of the Ecolab Centre in Orbetello, according to the relevant Region, the Tuscany Region, the laboratory was financed with the public funds of the negotiated programming of the Agricultural Territorial Pact. The beneficiaries of the ministerial contribution were the then commissioner for the rehabilitation of the Orbetello lagoon and the university center of Grosseto. The laboratory was designed to support the economic activities that operate in the lagoon and also for the environmental management of a humid area as complex as the one in question. During the period during which the university centre was operational, 42 research and analytical projects were carried out. With the crisis of the university center Siena-Grosseto, however, the conditions for continuing to operate have failed for the center Ecolab. Finally, with reference to the Terrarossa purification plant, based on the elements provided by the Municipality of Orbetello, it is evident that this plant has a total capacity of 60,000 inhabitants equivalent. Currently, the quantities of waste and liquid waste it receives, expressed by fish producers as volume data, far exceed, from the hydraulic point of view, the capacity of the plant. However, the operator of the plant has specified that the integrated system of collection and purification in question is dimensioned for the management of the water coming from the itticultures located near Ansedonia, in the quantity and characteristics indicated in the concession stipulated with the then delegated commissioner, through the net of collection to the point of release to sea, and not already to the purifier. In any case, taking into account the balance of public finances, the Ministry of the Environment, together with the Ministry of Agricultural Policies, makes itself available to support any further initiative useful to resolve the issues in question.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-831.ana.u15	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-831.ana.u16	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-831.ana.u17	PETRAGLIA (Misto-SI-SEL). Mr. Undersecretary, thank you for the detailed reply that the offices of the Ministry of the Environment have provided. I have to admit that it is quite unusual and also embarrassing to receive an answer to a question with two years delay since we asked for urgent intervention: the question dates back to July 2015, that is exactly the days when the lagoon emergency occurred. However, as you have said, the emergency has been overcome by various interventions, but we still do not deal with it with a long-term plan. I say this because even this year's climate conditions, for example, make us evoke, unfortunately, the probable return of problems in the lagoon. Unfortunately, we have all seen the incredible death toll of tons of fish and millions of euros thrown above all in an area where the lagoon is not only tourism but an important part of the economy. Yet, it took two years longer to assess assumptions. I am thinking, for example, of the important request for reclamation of the area of Patanella and of the former Siteco with respect to which I understand that it is still necessary other months evidently to evaluate hypotheses. I understand the excessive costs; I also understand that in this embarrassing bounce of responsibility between the Tuscany Region and the Municipality of Orbetello also entered at this moment the Government, but to constantly refer to the Tuscany Region we worry not little. After having carefully read the Government's response, we will possibly consider the opportunity to intervene again because many points remain uncovered. In our question we asked to understand, by virtue of an emergency, with what interventions and strategies one could think of an intervention for the lagoon, also through the involvement of subjects in a continuous way, that is, overcoming the successive steps of the commissioners. Orbetello has been politically tormented in all these years; we even had the Minister-Mayor for five years, and yet those five years did not contribute at all to solving the dramatic problem of the lagoon. I conclude by saying that the Orbetello lagoon is an important part of the economy of that territory, which is all too often devastated by floods and therefore needs maintenance, protection, care, resources but also political investments and long-term projects. We must intervene and think about the future of that area.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-831.ana.u18	Following is the question 3-0262 on the proliferation of wildlife in the territory of Bolognese. The representative of the Government may answer this question.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-831.ana.u19	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, with regard to the question of the uncontrolled proliferation of certain species of fauna, on the basis of the elements acquired by the competent Directorate-General of the Ministry of the Environment, as has already been pointed out on other occasions, the following is represented. It should be pointed out immediately that the Ministry of the Environment is well known the damages, of various kinds, caused in particular to agricultural productions, both in protected areas as well as in the free hunting territories, in particular as regards the excessive number of wild boars present in most of the national territory (about one million individuals are estimated at the moment). In order to be able to manage this species optimally and limit its damage, the Ministry has considered it appropriate to update the guidelines for the management of wild boar in protected areas. The update was carried out in collaboration with the managing bodies of the National and Regional Parks. These guidelines are currently the reference for the management of the species within the protected environments, providing support for the programming and regulation tools to be provided by the operators themselves. With regard to the numerical control of wildlife made redundant or problematic in protected areas, Law No. 394 of 1991 provides that the Park Regulation lays down any derogations from the prohibitions, providing for possible wildlife levies and possible selective killings necessary to recompose ecological imbalances established by the Park Authority itself. The collections and disposals must take place on the initiative and under the direct responsibility and supervision of the Park Authority and be implemented by the staff of the institution or for this purpose expressly authorized by the same. It should also be recalled that under Law No 157 of 11 February 1992 the hunting activity and numerical control of wild animals made redundant or liable for damage caused to the environment are separate activities which are not comparable with respect to the reasons, the species under control, the personnel employed and authorised to carry out the checks and the methods and periods laid down for their implementation. The same law, by way of derogation from the provisions of the relevant legislation, provides that the regions can control wildlife species also in areas where hunting is prohibited for various reasons, including the protection of zoo-agriforestry production, and requires that such control be carried out selectively and, in the first analysis, through the use of ecological methods, after the opinion of the Higher Institute for Environmental Protection and Research (ISPRA). If the Institute checks the inefficiency of these methods, the Regions may authorise abatement plans both in protected areas of regional competence, and within the territory that can be used for hunting. Therefore, in the presence of serious damage to the agricultural productions caused by wildlife in protected environments and free hunting territories, it is consistent with the current legislation to carry out control measures that provide for the numerical limitation of ungulate animals responsible for the damage. Moreover, it is noted that, following repeated reports of proliferation of wild boars, by Law No 221 of 28 December 2015, amendments were adopted to the aforementioned Law No 157 of 1992, which provide for the prohibition of the entry and artificial feeding of wild boar in kind, as well as the prohibition of breeding of wild boar in certain areas adjacent to those protected, with a penalty regime of a criminal nature for offenders. By the same law it has also been provided that the Regions and the Autonomous Provinces adapt the fauna-venor plans, ensuring the identification, in the territory of their own competence, of the areas in which, in relation to the presence or the contiguousness with protected natural areas or with areas characterized by the localization of particularly vulnerable agricultural productions, it is forbidden to breed and enter the wild boar species. In the light of the information presented, it is therefore considered that the current regulatory framework provides the appropriate tools for regions and protected areas to act effectively. In any case, as far as competence is concerned, the Ministry constantly monitors the regulatory impact of sector regulations, also in order to overcome the operational criticalities that should emerge and evaluate possible revisions of the discipline.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-831.ana.u20	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-831.ana.u21	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-831.ana.u22	GAMBARO (ALA-SCLP). Madam President, I would like to thank the Undersecretary, who has clarified the issue a bit at the regulatory level. The question was presented in February 2016 in order to raise awareness of a very serious situation that concerns agriculture in the Emilian territory of Castel San Pietro and Ozzano dell'Emilia. In this area the economy is mainly agricultural and half of the proceeds were destroyed in 2015. We're talking about an entire sector. In the meantime, just yesterday, I signed a bill signed by Senator Fasiolo (maybe he already knows about it) on the demand for new rules on wild boar hunting that show how this problem has become huge, with damage in the last year that even reach 100 million euros, not only to things but also to people. Therefore, I urge the Undersecretary to continue along this path and certainly to continue the process of this bill, which seems very important to me.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-831.ana.u23	I note that Senator Maurizio Romani told the Presidency that he wanted to turn the question 3-03424, concerning the full functionality of the university library in Pisa - on the agenda of today's sitting - into a written question, which will take the number 4-07580. Question Time on the agenda is thus over.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-831.ana.u24	The motions, questions and questions received by the Presidency will be published in Annex B to today's report.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-831.ana.u25	The Senate will meet again in public session on Tuesday 30 May, at 4.30 p.m., with the following agenda: (See agenda) The sitting was closed at 16.31 a.m.
