ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-816.ana.u1	The sitting is open (9:33 a.m.). The Minutes shall be read. Mr SIBILIA, secretary, read the Minutes of the afternoon sitting on 27 April. PRESIDENT. - The debate is Since there were no comments, the Minutes were approved.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-816.ana.u2	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-816.ana.u3	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-816.ana.u4	TOSATO (LN-Aut). Madam President, I would like to ask for the vote on the Minutes, subject to a quorum check. Verification of quorum
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-816.ana.u5	I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators, by electronic procedure. (The request is supported). I therefore call on the senators to make their presence known by electronic means. (Follows the quorum check.) The Senate has a quorum. Resumption of the debate on the Minutes I put the Minutes to the vote. It's approved.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-816.ana.u6	The list of senators on leave and absent on assignment received from the Senate, as well as further communications to the Assembly, will be published in Annex B to today's Minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-816.ana.u7	I would warn you that qualified votes can be taken in the course of today's sitting by electronic means. Therefore, from this moment the period of 20 minutes from the notice provided for in Article 119, paragraph 1 of the Regulation (9:38 hours) begins.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-816.ana.u8	The next item is the continuation of the debate on draft law No 2085 already approved by the House of Deputies. He's enlisted to speak Senator Romano. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-816.ana.u9	Madam President, Madam Minister, Mr Senator, ladies and gentlemen, the subject of the annual law on the market and competition is very much debated and, in this context, I would like to put to the attention of the House a reflection on RC auto, in particular as regards the inequalities existing in the payment of tariffs between the southern regions compared to the northern ones and, in particular, not in general, on those who have had a virtuous behavior as insured persons. We know that in recent years in Italy there has been a general increase in RC car insurance premiums, with an increasing shear between the rates applied in the northern area and those applied in the central-southern area. Faced with the mandatory RC car insurance, the insurance pricing market does not guarantee uniform pricing of policies throughout the national territory and therefore it is not actually rewarding even to the southern motorists in the class of maximum discount. As is well known, the level of tariffs applied is closely related to the technical result of insurance undertakings: profits or losses are linked with tariff adjustments compared to the risks assumed. The right obligation of insurance and - it is not a pun - the unfair inequality (so tautological) of tariffs has a very negative effect: in particular, insurance cover. According to some data from the Italian Institute for Insurance Supervision (IVASS) there are just over 3 million vehicles that do not have insurance coverage. As a percentage, on average, 11.1 percent in the Provinces of the South, compared with 8.2 percent in Central Italy and 5.2 percent in the North. This has serious social consequences and the increased involvement of the road-victims Guarantee Fund with additional costs for policyholders, who have to pay a premium to the Guarantee Fund in order to compensate for accidents caused by non-insured persons. According to data from IVASS, on the activity carried out in the year 2014 (the report is of 2015) there are significant territorial differences for the average effective price and not list of RC auto policies. In fact, just to remember some, the highest average price is for an adult driver of Naples (about 800 euros) compared to that of other areas of Italy, for example the Valle D'Aosta, with an average cost - I repeat, are IVASS data - of 140.9% more. In short, we can say that Italians generally pay more than Europeans and Italians in Southern Italy pay more than average Italian. It is therefore clear that there is a need to ensure greater analyticality on the part of insurance companies in the nuclear sector of the tariff differences linked - this is the most important step - to subjective and not only territorial factors, as well as to provide, by insurance, for a system of greater tariff support for the most virtuous motorists in the highest-risk territorial areas. Faced with the mandatory RC auto insurance, the principle of equality of Article 3 of the Constitution is raised, certainly disregarding the tariff disparities to which citizens are subject in some areas compared to others, although in the same class of merit. In support of this statement, I would like to quote a quote from Dr. Salvatore Rossi, President of IVASS and Director General of the Bank of Italy, who, in the context of a hearing held in the Senate no later than 11 November 2015, said: The fact that a good and prudent driver who never makes accidents, who agrees to mount on his vehicle a "black box" pays a very high insurance premium because he is resident in an area that the companies consider to be at high medium risk, also because of the presence in that area of an aggressive minority of careless and fraudulent drivers. This is something that I think is particularly important and which, on the other hand, goes hand in hand with another kind of reflection that Dr. Rossi put to the attention of the Senate during his hearing. I am referring to the fact that tariff parity can, however, be a risk. Dr Rossi states that the risk is that the European Commission will assess these rules (in particular the territorial equalisation) as anti-competitive, as they could violate the principle of tariff freedom. In this case, the European Commission could, on the one hand, consider that the value of structural reform of the whole measure has been diminished and, on the other hand, that it is compatible with Community law, also in the light of the established case-law of the Court of Justice of the European Union. I have to say that during the debate which took place in the Commission - in this regard, I would like to thank Mr Cucchetti for his hard work - we tried to make some changes to the original text. I would remind you that I tabled an amendment in the Commission, which was then precluded by an amendment by the rapporteurs followed by a sub-amendment. This has led to the adoption of a text which is now before the House and on which I assume confidence will be placed this afternoon. Madam President, I would like to remind you that the measure states that the VATS ensures that the additional discount ensures that the differences in premiums applied on national territory are progressively reduced in respect of insured persons with the same subjective characteristics and placed in the same class of merit. In other words, in Article 3, paragraph 10, the use of the verb "verb " means that VATS is solely responsible for assessing compliance with certain principles. IVASS is obliged to give an assessment not in absolute, but of progressive reduction, which means that it is met, albeit partially, to the amendment that I have placed to the attention of the Commission, in which the subjective risk was recognized as a priority over the risk of the territory for users and citizens with virtuous behaviors, thus linking to the principle of equality referred to in Article 3 of the Constitution. I would like to point out that this type of reflection does not justify the incorrect behaviour that exists in some realities or on the part of some citizens. I would like to point out that, in view of the principle of equality laid down in Article 3 of the Constitution, subjects with virtuous behaviour are considered at a level equal to that of other citizens with equal status in the class of merit, so that there is no inequality. I believe that this proposal, which I have brought to the attention of the Commission and now of this House, is entirely reasonable because it does not create any disparity at all, but it is intended to encourage behaviour which I believe should be protected. I would remind you that the risk is that so many others who, with insurance cover, must also cover the Guarantee Fund for the victims of the road. This is another very important aspect that I would like to bring to the attention of the rapporteurs and the debate that will take place shortly on confidence. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator Gasparri is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-816.ana.u10	Mr President, on the substance of the measure, colleagues from the Forza Italia Group who followed him in the Commission did a very good job. However, our concerns remain and prevail over the measure as a whole, which leads us to vote against it in the state; then, the impending issue of trust simplifies our position even more. I would like to point out to the representatives of the Government - and I would like to draw the attention of the Secretary-General, since I do not see the Minister for relations with the Finocchiaro Parliament at the moment - that there has been unanimity on the part of the Commission, as the rapporteur here can confirm, an invitation to delete a sentence concerning the interconnection of passengers and drivers. It sounds like an innocent phrase, but it evokes the famous issue of NCCs, taxis and UBERs. If this sentence, which the whole Commission is asking to remove, were to remain, it would open up a dangerous confusion, to which the Senate was also addressed. You will remember what happened a few weeks ago, when the taxis surrounded the streets and I myself intervened to get heard: at the time we were discussing the multi-pronged measure at the Committee on Constitutional Affairs. From there came a confrontation with the Government, Undersecretary Gentile. The directors of the Ministry of Delrio and the vice minister Nencini opened a consultation with all the interested categories (NCC, taxi and so on); a ministerial decree should have been issued, whose fate I frankly ignore at the moment; it was said by this government that by March a solution would be found, assessing the reasons of all. I am not going into the matter of the dispute, but I remember, President, having personally spoken with President Zanda and the Minister of Interior Minniti calling for negotiation, because the strike and the taxi protests had created problems, inconveniences, interventions of the guarantee authority for strikes. It was a delicate matter, and I wouldn't want it to recouple from here in a few minutes. Undersecretary Gentile, you, not listening to the Commission, can take responsibility for an uneasiness of the citizens. The protests, in fact (I say this before, so that it remains in the acts), do not burst because people are crazy, but because of the lack of listening. I would like to thank Mr Finocchiaro for his presence, and I would ask him to ensure that the Commission's opinion on the abolition of those ambiguous words is incorporated in the possible maxi mum amendment, otherwise this interconnection between passengers and drivers would remain in the text that he presented. If, then, this afternoon the taxi protest breaks out all over Italy do not say that it has not been said. Your Government, among other things, has opened the table of confrontation: at Porta Pia there was a long meeting and I do not know if, then, the ministerial measure - it is not a law - has been enacted, I have no confidence in it. Why should tensions be triggered in the country when the categories have chosen the path of negotiation with the Government? Why should we disregard the Commission's opinion unanimously? Why provoke the workers? With the approval of this text in a few hours in Italy there will be chaos in the stations and airports. Preventing is better than suppressing. If there is a need for a kettle, let's put it, so by now of tricks on the maximamenti, in the course of life, we have seen thousands of them. [[Comments by Minister Finocchiaro]] Minister Finocchiaro, there have been changes, adjustments and more. There is a problem here: the Commission has suggested something that is not being done and this can trigger tensions. I say this first, in a cooperative spirit, in the Parliament of the Republic, inviting the Government to do what the Commission has requested. We're not giving a partisan speech. It's 9:54 a.m., there's plenty of time to do that; if there are strikes, blocks or anything else this afternoon, don't say you haven't been informed in time. On the substance of the draft law, I would just like to make a brief comment. Many colleagues have already said that the competition law must be done once a year; the Antitrust makes a thousand calls. I know and esteem President Pitruzzella, who sometimes, like Calenda, seems to live on Mars. We make a competition law, but - and I say this from the benches of a Group that makes liberal principles its own - who really regulates competition in this country? We make the legend year by year, after which our steel mills close not only for environmental problems, but because steel comes from China (and Europe has had to impose duties, which can be imposed), which costs half, because in China workers are exploited, the environment is polluted, it is produced at low cost while in our country there is the dramatic story of the ILVA and many others where the reasons for the work and those of the environment clash. We talk about competition, after which the big web operators escape the payment of taxes. In recent days you have read also the news that Amazon, by decision of the judiciary, has to pay 130 million euros of back taxes. It seems that Google is accepting a fiscal arrangement for 280 million euros. This means that all these network operators, the so-called over the top, who often have higher budgets than those of some states, do not pay taxes. They do e-commerce because it is modernity, but they have to pay taxes, because otherwise it is unfair competition. We are witnessing desertification, in our cities, of the shops and of the commercial activities that close. Competition, for those who are liberal, is a sacrosanct principle, but on equal terms, because if steel is produced in China by exploiting neighbouring countries and polluting the environment, it is clear that our steel mills will close down, if the network operators do not pay taxes, it is clear that all other commercial activities will close. Why did Renzi not want the tax for these operators (the so-called web tax)? Unfair competition is seen in a thousand things. The crisis of Alitalia will have been handled badly, there will be historical faults, everything you want, but the center-right governments called private entrepreneurs, the best of Italian entrepreneurship and finance to understand if you could manage better in the market. Things go the way we know. But you know that low cost companies, which we all appreciate and love, make contributions from airport companies and local authorities to fill airports in this or that city, which are happy to pay contributions because people, tourists and the economy are coming. Europe, which stands for state aid, as it considers other aid, that if it is not state aid but the municipalities, it is still public aid? We make the legend, we argue about a paragraph, but what are the European and international competition rules? Finally, one wonders why Alitalia does not do so too, but obviously there are contracts and stratifications. What would happen if Alitalia proposed to make contracts in Ireland, as Ryanair does? The workers voted against a very strict and austere proposal, think of what they would have done if they had told them that they were transferring contracts. If contracts are made in Ireland, which is a country of the European Union, it means that the European Union does not have the same conditions. Even if the FCA (already FIAT) has transferred its tax office to the Netherlands (not to a tax paradise in the third world) it means that even the Netherlands, which is one of the founding countries of the European Union, has conditions of greater advantage. I'm not making a criticism, I'm making a statement. We are aware of the last paragraph of the Competition Act, the European Union imposes on the sellers of artichoke in the markets world competitions with the Bolkesteen Directive, or on the beach companies to succumb because there is the Competition Directive (also that is parallel matter, the notorious Bolkestein Directive) after which the network giant does not pay taxes, the emerging airline makes contracts in Ireland and takes money from airport companies and local authorities. But then how does this competition work? It should at least happen on a level playing field, although I also know that before China and other countries have regulations similar to ours, it will take time. Environmental standards are a cost to companies, even if they are fair, because we must protect health and work and live in healthy environments, but in other parts of the world these standards are not respected. It is as if in a square there were ten pizzerias and one were exempted from paying the Irpef to the employees, from assembling the chimney, from the controls of the NAS, from keeping the refrigerators, and thus could charge the pizza three euros, while the others, who have to pay the taxes, keep the chimney and observe all the rules, had to charge the pizza 13 euros. The unfair competition that today is practiced at all levels, national and international, harms liberal principles and makes these legends not of Manzoni's cries, but of the gripes for the backdrops. [[Applause from Senator Rizzotti.]] I would urge the various Calendars and Pitruzzellas to go down to the planet earth and instead of insulting a street vendor who calls for the protection of his dealer at the market, to do some real struggle for a free market and for free competition, removing alterations to the market, which are not issues that this law can address, but which are the unavoidable issues, which are the risk of the total decline of the Italian, European, Western economy, submerged by unfair competition. Sooner or later this debate and this law will have to be done. [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-816.ana.u11	He's enlisted to speak Senator Tocci. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-816.ana.u12	Madam President, I would like to say a few words in support of the opinion of some of my colleagues who have proposed that this legislative instrument be exceeded: behind the auspicious definition of'market and competition' there is a container of often extemporaneous, fragmented and improvised rules. We've been repeating this ritual for ten years. We have produced a tome of over a thousand pages; it would also be appropriate to take stock, to wonder what the macroeconomic effect of this legislative tome has been, such as the effect on the country's productivity. I think the result would be very negative. I am curious that the arguments of this instrument are almost always the same: insurance, banks, the distribution of energy, the portability of telephone contracts, pharmacies. But didn't we already legislate on these matters? Why do we always return to the same issues every year? There is no need to uncomfortable the theoretical principles of ordoliberal thinking to understand that a market is first and foremost stability of the rules: if the rules change once a year it cannot be a market. I am struck by the fact that 12 pages of parliamentary acts are written in order to legislate on fuel plants - as you know - that is to say an installation of very simple public interest. Undersecretary, is it possible that this matter is so complex that it deserves 12 pages of parliamentary acts? If we go to read, we realize that these are decisions that would all be in the responsibility of the administrative managers, who, however, prefer to ask for a rule - and they get it - and the Ministers do not deal with this; they care more the press offices than the legislative offices, and the effects on the low quality of the legislation are before everyone's eyes. I would suggest, therefore, that we change our name: it does not read on the market and competition but it reads on bureaucracy, because a law on which a thousand pages have been written, 12 of which on fuel plants, evidently produces only bureaucracy. And bureaucracy is the humus for lobbying. Two, in fact, are the lobbies that come out quite free, indeed, favored by this law: that of taxi drivers and that of art dealers. The rule on taxis is embarrassing: they are words in freedom, without any concept, without any determination. The Minister says: "I don't know what to do, however give me a proxy and then we'll see." Probably, however, despite the emptiness of these norms, there will be, as announced before Gasparri, also a dispute with the category. This has been happening for many years and it is really embarrassing that there is a conflict with the category without bringing home any concrete results. The situation is not really changed in this case either. Mobility would be a very interesting market, it does not go into recession; it needs the emergence of modern new businesses able to produce and offer innovative services of high quality and low cost, obviously with the protection of workers. To do this we must overcome the archaic regulations of licences and therefore imagine a transition from the old to the new regime, also giving the holders of the old licenses the possibility to cross this transition. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Come to the conclusion, please. TOCCI (PD). This can be done in various ways: the most enterprising holders give a second license to enter the new world; for those in difficulty accompany them to the pension with a liquidation compensation. Art dealers are very favored: they will determine whether a good is exportable or not with self-certification. The exportability threshold is an economic parameter, the selling price of the good and not its cultural value; and this seems to me to say everything about the regressive setting of the norm. In addition, the cultural goods produced in the 1950s and 1960s, that is, in one of the most creative moments in the country, are exportable. That miracle was not only economic but also intellectual and artistic. Today, of course, the country struggles to repeat that momentum and creativity. The Ministry of Cultural Heritage uses a lot of triumphalism, but in my opinion the rules also reveal a certain pessimism: we are not able to repeat that creativity and then we sell the goods of the past. But a country that sells out the past is doomed to decline. Creativity in contemporary life feeds on a conscious and mature conception of the heritage that we have behind us. [[Applause from the PD Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-816.ana.u13	Senator Puglia is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-816.ana.u14	Madam President, the annual law on the market and competition is a law of government initiative. It is the first annual draft competition law; it should be annual, but it never has been. It therefore serves to open up the markets and is aimed at removing regulatory barriers, opening up markets, promoting competition and guaranteeing consumer protection, at least in intentions and on paper. Chat, chat, chat, chat, chat. What happened this time of year? Something has happened that we already expected. You have followed falsely what we have always said, namely to protect consumers. In particular, Madam President, I would like to focus on the car RC. We have always defined that of RC car a market that, alas, today in Italy has no competition. There are only four large groups; so they sit around a small table, even quite small, and very often, as we have seen, they make signs. I am told - and this is your thought - that the rates are free, because the insurances must be free, as they are a commercial product. Attention, forget that the insurance is mandatory and therefore, if the state abdicates to the controls, these gentlemen will sprinkle us to the bone, as long as they can sprinkle. And they did. So there is a concentration in the huge market. It has been said that insurance must be able to move and that then it cannot take risks, because the insurance market cannot go into loss; therefore it must increase the premiums. But let us forget the fundamental principle of free market and competition: the entrepreneur is the one who risks. Instead, the insurance company throws the risk on the citizens. So what is it? Just an organization to make money? And then, at this point, it would be appropriate for the Italian State to set up a public insurance company that would make real competition with these gentlemen. We had made a proposal and we have also reached an agreement with you, in the House of Deputies. The government has come to meet us and we have again modified the text. You also went out on the street and in the papers saying, Hurray, we did it, we finally brought to Italy a fair car RC tariff! It's just bullshit to you. It's bullshit. We had proposed a fair tariff, namely that all drivers who had not claimed claims in the last five years should be charged a lower insurance premium on national territory. Simple, simple. If I am virtuous, if I have not done accidents, I am the same whether I am dark or white; or whether I am a motorist. Whether he's a motorist B. No, you didn't. You found a thousand excuses and canceled it. It takes a 5 Star Government to restore equity. Then you got mad at the coachmen. Your colleague also talked about fraud, which inflates invoices. But let's go see. In 2013, out of 2,891 million claims, insurance claims were 7007, i.e. 0.2 percent. Then there are frauds: yes or no? If so, they'll report it. Do you know why they don't report it? Because it's not worth it anymore. Because they don't have a business risk. So much, if they pay, then they pay the citizens. This is your system. A wrong and wrong system, which needs to be changed. It takes a 5 Star Government. When we said that compensation for the victims of the road had to be based on a jurisprudence now applied throughout Italy (it is the tables of Milan and there was a serious study), instead no, you did not want to apply them. Do you know why? Because you know very well what will happen. Because the victims of the road won't get that right compensation. Even so, there were some of your amendments that wanted to make sure that a single compensation would compensate for all the possible and imaginable damages, even those of constitutional importance. There was an amendment that I prefer to leave alone, because I really would have a bit heavier words. I remember very well when we finally completed the RC fair car in the Chamber of Deputies. The Commission then came ANIA, which is the national association between insurance companies, and then - happens to be - the Unipol to threaten and say that either we canceled the RC fair car or, otherwise, they would go to protest in Europe. But go to Europe! I'm waiting! Go to Europe! With a five-star government, we will talk to Europe and see if we have to give gifts to insurance or we have to give dignity to citizens and fairness to all motorists. You made the RC fair car disappear, just like the insurance companies wanted. And then I say: go home, because that will be the time when Italy will rise. [[Applause from the M5S Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-816.ana.u15	Senator Cervellini is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-816.ana.u16	Madam President, in the area of competition, there is still a sectoral approach, with mainly specific and unrelated interventions: in short, reassuring answers, more or less, to the lobbyists. We are not, especially with regard to the transport sector, where, perhaps, homeopathic doses of competition would be desirable. In recent days, when the competition decree (and I would like to emphasize that this measure has remained in a drawer for a long time), while some cities, including the capital, have been the scene of important protests of entire professional categories, it has been stated, precisely, that the bill had among the priority objectives to stimulate economic growth and to raise the level of competition in some productive sectors and in the field of professional services. In it a delegation to the Government has been inserted to implement, from here to the next months, a reform of the field of the transports not of line. Let me say that to many, including myself, when we hear of delegation to the Government there is a thrill because we have fresh memories in this sense: either of forgotten things lying down or of things completely distorted compared to what was the work of the corresponding Commissions and the House, in our case of the Senate. In short, we have before us the issue of the procurement code and the embarrassment to which the government has brought the parliamentary work. Mobility and transport is a highly debated and highly impacted topic on people's lives, especially in large cities. We in the Italian Left hope that the possibility of delegation to our examination will not constitute a new opportunity for confrontation. In recent months we have been in constant contact with trade unions and workers who are seriously concerned about their future. The risk now is that the tension will rise again, at a very delicate moment of confrontation between the Government and the trade union representatives on a general reform of the sector that has proved particularly complex. Dura was the government's reaction to the legitimate protests of the workers, on the occasion, precisely, of the examination of the measure so-called thousandprorogues in the Senate, to the amendment pro Uber. Today, the entire taxi industry is at risk. We defend the workers against a government which, on the one hand, has not yet given answers on the regulation of the sector, nor has it intervened on abuse, while on the other it has strictly applied, the only European country, directives such as Bolkenstein. How is it possible to talk about free competition when entire categories are at risk of being brought to their knees? I participated in the protests of taxi drivers outside the Senate to defend workers who for two and a half years have been waiting for a response from the Government on the issue of rights in relation to the provisions produced in favour of the rental service with driver and the Uber multinational American, whose apps remain active waiting for the civil court of Rome to decide on the merits of the case raised by the trade union organizations of taxi drivers for unfair competition. The first hearing is scheduled for May 5th. This is about the courts, but the politics and responsibilities that you have to assume where they are? Where are the institutions? A heated negotiation has been underway since 21 February and the trade union organizations had put as a condition, in order to continue the work at the technical tables with the Government, to replace Article 71 of the draft competition law and return to the original text. With the Italian Left we have tabled specific amendments, because we consider legitimate the protests of the categories that only ask to work according to the rules and that up to now have taken on, often in harmony with the local authorities, complex problems such as the right to transport, that, if denied, changes in a tragic way the material living conditions of the citizens, especially in the metropolis. Mortifying the essential role that the public taxi service plays, forcing it to bear only the weight of social benefits, with the excuse of modernising the sector, is unacceptable. The commitments and promises of consultation tables made by the Ministers in relation to these categories have been too often disregarded. Ours is a constant appeal against the turbo-liberalism and corporateism that are the tomb of competition, and they make only the strongest and those who despise the rules win, as well as producing the devastation of our productive sector and the lives of workers and workers, who are now almost named victims of the new technological leadership. A coming Middle Ages we risk writing. In short, it is necessary to create the conditions not to foment the war of all against all and to guarantee the right to mobility in a global vision of transport. I'm gonna finish by seeing that time is running inexorable. Nor is the draft competition law clear in relation to other policy areas such as services to citizens, since not all the public services sector can be subject to competition rules. In fact, it is good to avoid duplications between the public and the private that have often generated corruption. Too much remains to be done for local public transport. I overlook the investments planned in the newly approved DEF absolutely insufficient and inevitably come to the end, to the Alitalia affair, which seems unrelated. Well, how has market liberalisation affected the company's crisis? This crisis is a symbol of what is happening in all other sectors of the country and is the result of the gradual, but inevitable destructuring of some fundamental sectors, of inappropriate managerial choices and of so much specific inability, of the absence of rules, of an industrial policy plan and of investments in the most strategic sectors for the country. All this combined with the written choice of a Government that consciously decides to exit from the main assets of development and programming. For years we have been supporting the desperation of workers in the airport sector, including in strategic sectors such as security, among other things in a global scenario such as the current one. I mention Simav and Electron only to make the two most striking examples. Even the match of the agreement with Etihad was played on the workers' shoulders, engaging with shareholders to offer a shield to litigation and with banks for the conversion of debt into shares. The government had prepared all the conditions for the risk-free investment for Etihad, but on the shoulders of more than 2,000 workers and their families. It didn't even happen in Fiat's dramatic story. Etihad's plan outlined for Alitalia an excellent future of carrier with an increase in revenues of almost 10 percent by 2017. Alitalia boasted a better employee ratio for aircraft and employee revenues compared to other companies on the market, as well as a more competitive labour cost. How did we get to a partner nobody wants? I believe that there is now some cleverness in the process of possible fake repubblizations, of which we do not understand the strategic perspective. We believe that, as in other policy areas, there is a need to find forms of repubblization compatible, of course, according to a regulatory framework consistent with criteria of competition and liberalisation. It is possible; it is right; it is necessary within a framework of fair competition because unfair competition is the worst enemy; it is the tomb of the free market. We cannot move forward with a government that is strong with the weak and weak with the strong. [[Applause from the Misso-SI-SEL Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-816.ana.u17	On behalf of the Assembly, I greet the teachers and students of the Economic Technical Institute Raffaele Piria in Reggio Calabria, who are attending our work. Welcome. You're very elegant. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-816.ana.u18	He's enlisted to speak Senator Galimberti. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-816.ana.u19	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, more than two years have passed since the Government presented the draft law called the Annual Competition Act. It contains a contradiction in the title, because the temporal expectations of the measure have not been respected; a damage in substance, because citizens and businesses have lost the benefits that it could have given them. This length of legislation means that many of the new rules are already being exceeded. In view of this, common sense requires at least to update the old parts and we in Forza Italia are strongly inclined to move to the Commission but, alas, it seems that the majority wants, as usual, to limit this House by putting yet another question of trust. This is demonstrated by the presence in the Assembly of Minister Finocchiaro. This length of legislation - I would like to point out - must not be attributed to that equal bicameralism put under trial by the Commission on 4 December and then acquitted with a full formula by the citizens with the referendum vote. [[Applause from Senator Rizzotti.]] In fact, it was the majority who, due to internal bellyaches, feared the verdict of Parliament. Well, after several contradictory announcements about the continuation or interruption of the so-called draft competition law, this measure has suddenly become the keystone of the Chigi Palace reform plan. A choice that cannot be accepted, finding ourselves faced with a text that, despite the great proclamations with which it was announced and the numerous improvements made in the Senate, remains a disappointment for the few and timid hints of liberalisation. As Seneca said, much of progress lies in the desire to progress, but the left has always had a certain retrospect to change in its DNA. [[Applause from Senator Rizzotti]] Suffice it to say that, perhaps, the rule of greatest impact is that it removes the monopoly of the delivery of fines and judicial documents to Poste Italiani. In the light of the current economic situation in the country, a real economic revolution would have served to stimulate growth and employment. Precisely in this direction, Forza Italia has moved, with proposals for changes inspired by the liberal recipe that has always been promoted by President Berlusconi and therefore less taxes, less bureaucracy, less State, more enterprise, more family, more work. Unfortunately, our efforts have been in vain and we have only managed to introduce a few but significant corrections that have allowed us to avoid gross errors of the majority. I am referring, for example, to the rule of entry of capital companies into the ownership of pharmacies. The risk of the entry of multinational companies with dominant positions in such a sensitive sector has been taken. Only with a close and constructive confrontation has emerged that regional ceiling of 20% that guarantees the limit to the overpower of the large companies, protecting the professionalism of thousands of pharmacists who daily, especially in the suburbs, give assistance to the citizens. The same risk was incurred for those rules which provided for the digital subscription of acts such as the transfer of company shares or the establishment of limited liability companies by means of private writing. These provisions have fortunately been repealed because, in the absence of that monitoring of money laundering carried out by the notaries, it would have been easy to allow the entry of illegal capital. However, many other issues are still pending. Just think about insurance. The sector's underlying problem is not solved and the premiums still remain too high, 30% higher than the European average. Same thing for energy: the mandatory transition to the free market has been extended to 2019, postponing for two years a thorny topic that will still have to be dealt with definitively. Finally, as far as transport is concerned, there is yet another delegation in white to the Government for a new and much-needed regulation, especially in the light of the continuing clashes between the various parties involved. So far only promises have come from Palazzo Chigi. To us at Forza Italia it insists that the revision of the discipline in the matter of self-services guarantees to all the companies that operate on the national territory, the same norm. I mean, it's another missed opportunity. We needed vision, courage, determination and openness to confrontation. Quality that has always featured the leader of Forza Italia and that well expressed Marina Berlusconi in the interview given to the "Corriere della Sera" last Thursday: If we remove the figure of Silvio Berlusconi from the last thirty years of history, I speak of the politician and the entrepreneur, we would have an Italy immeasurably less free. Less free to choose, to undertake, to think with one's own head without asking for another's head. [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-816.ana.u20	He's enlisted to speak Senator Cucchetti. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-816.ana.u21	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, may I begin by thanking the Commission's parliamentary adviser, Dr Giammusso, and all the staff of the Industry Commission's office for the quality and consistency of their professional contribution, which enabled us to conclude the work in the referent's office on 2 August 2016, and also for the help offered in the further finishes proposed by the rapporteurs, which I hope will be transposed by the Government into this or the next annual competition measure. I listened with great interest to the reconstruction of the long gestation of the bill at our examination and the results achieved by the speakers senators, Luigi Marino and Salvatore Tomaselli. In the political distance, interesting points have also come from the opposition senators in the Chamber and in the Commission: from Vice President Pelino, from Senators Castaldi, Girotto and Council. Let us now come to the political points. Like Senator Lanzillotta, and first of all the rapporteur Marino, and then others, I also wonder whether the instrument of the annual law has proved appropriate to promote competition policy. I venture to answer: no, it did not prove appropriate. In fact, the individual ministries tend, and not without reason, to want to define their own reform framework laws in the areas within their competence, if and when they feel able to do so. I am thinking, for example, of the reform of port services, one of the most backward activities of our country that the Ministry of Infrastructure already at first instance, in the original definition of the draft law of the Government, invoked to itself. In fact, history tells us that the most ambitious decisions on competition came well before 2009, when the obligation of the annual law was decided. I would like to mention the main points: the ownership separation of transport infrastructure in electricity and gas from Enel and ENI in order to build energy markets where there was a monopoly; and then the multiplication of telecommunications networks in both mobile and fixed and unbundling in order to facilitate the entry of new operators and the links between telecommunications and television, the establishment of independent authorities. The most recent, among the major, is the Transport Authority that accompanies the competition in the high railway speed. But we cannot forget the shyness. There were those, too. Shyness about motorway concessions and the crew back of tariff improvements. Shyness on the RAI-Mediaset duopoly that will be mitigated not by the foresight of the legislator, but by the technological evolution of the web that makes the old masters of information and entertainment age in the nearest times. I stress, as other colleagues have already done, including Senator Gasparri, the political weakness of governments in the face of the systematic tax avoidance of over the top which creates serious distortions in competition in strategic services such as the distribution of goods and services, the management of personal identity information and advertising; sectors in which other companies, often Italian, operate, that taxes pay them. I am concerned about the weakness of Antitrust and Agcom, even in perimeter of these issues. You see, it is right that the independent authorities exercise a right of stand for government and parliament, but the right and duty to criticize and, if necessary, force the authorities to do their job better remains in politics. Accountability duty goes both ways. Also for this purpose the Senate Finance and Industry Commissions are looking for a solution on the web tax front that recovers resources to the Italian tax and assures to the markets and consumers the correct behavior of the enterprises from the point of view of the competition. I hope that the Government will work together with ideas and proposals, now and perhaps in the 2017 budget law. Here, the pro-competitive political will is not realized because there is an annual law. Or this will is formed because at least the majority are convinced that competition policy serves, and they convince themselves without indulging in rhetoric, but doing the accounts, as they always recommended, even to the PCI of Togliatti, that great Italian who was Raffaele Mattioli; or this will does not form, and then they quarrel, and they make the jokes chiozzotte on your lobby against my lobby, a matter on which the rapporteurs have uttered definitive words. Having said that, we must leave it to the next legislature to give an operational answer to the question that Senator Lanzillotta and Senator Marino asked us: the calendar is tyrant. But Italy, which wants to present itself as the country of reforms, cannot let this legislature pass without having made any decision on competition. If it is true that this law is worth 1% of GDP, it is approved as soon as possible. I'm not so optimistic and I don't think it has this extraordinary effect, and yet I say: House and Senate did a job; let's vote it here at Palazzo Madama and ask colleagues in the House to do the same. This is in order to allow the Government to put in place as soon as possible an annual measure relating to 2017, to be approved in that year. This has asked the Industry Commission in its recent opinion, and this I repeat today in this House. As the rapporteur, Mr Tomaselli, warned, time does not pass in vain. This bill would need some retouching on insurance that has already been defined. An agreement was also reached with opposition forces on more stringent antitrust limits at the entry of financial capital into pharmacies (senator Mandelli spoke about this yesterday). It's not just a deal. I think it's an improvement. Personally, I would add that in some respects the draft law should even be amended. Let me give just one example: the overcoming of greater protection; I also do so for the benefit of the President of the PD, who has discovered the subject in recent days. Well, if the greater protection in the electric service is abolished without an antitrust roof and without auctions with cost oriented price regimes, we risk crystallizing at the head of Enel, and under the regime of price freedom, 85% of the 23 million customers that today Enel and the other companies employed for the purpose serve on behalf of the single buyer at prices always lower than those so-called free. These customers - I would like to be clear - are not today customers of Enel (i.e. the former monopoly) and of the other parties who exercise the sales service on behalf of the single buyer, but they will become customers tomorrow for inertia. For Enel, on the basis of company documentation (I see that not all those who talk about this matter, including the person I mentioned earlier, have studied it) consider an advantage of at least one billion margin. I do not like this - it is obvious - but for now I am giving up the pressure for an immediate change. I trust that the Government Gentiloni Silveri - in particular Minister Calenda - will look at this issue and the commitments they have made, correcting the approaches of the predecessors. Also in this case, as in others, we will see the Government and the Minister to the test on the occasion of the next measure. These days the vote of confidence has been put forward, which has been repeatedly mentioned in this House, and we know that it will be requested. Such a solution would be an act of responsibility on the part of this House towards the country and the government that must be able to play the competition card in Europe. However, let me say that, given the circumstances and the work done by the Commission, the House and, in particular, the rapporteurs, such a solution is also an act of generosity on the part of the majority and also - I add - the same opposition. It is a generosity - I would like to be clear - that I am sure it will not be rewarded by the cunning of different sign in the third and final passage to the Chamber of Deputies, in order then to prevent the Government from launching the law for the market and competition for 2017. [[Applause from the PD Group and Senator Buemi.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-816.ana.u22	The general debate is closed. I call the rapporteur, Senator Marino Luigi.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-816.ana.u23	Madam President, my colleague Mr Tomaselli and I would like to begin by thanking all those who have shown the willingness and fairness of the rapporteurs in the management of this measure. Senator Lanzillotta, whom we thank for her opinion on the difficult work of the rapporteurs, took up a subject which I had put in my opening report and which was also addressed at the beginning of President Mucchetti's speech. I am referring to the fact that this first draft law for the market and competition involves a critical reflection on the annual law in this area, which, despite it, turns into a "provision of measures" in a sort of one hundred years of legislation: the question arises whether this is really the most appropriate, appropriate and useful instrument for increasing the competitiveness of the market. Both the Commission and Parliament should look into whether the annual law is still the best solution, or should we find other simpler and faster instruments, such as myself and - I think I have interpreted correctly - Senator Mucchetti too. Senators Castaldi and Baptists re-proposed the theme of lobbying, arguing, not in an original way, that the bill under consideration contains favors for certain categories. I also spoke in the opening report on lobbying and I repeat myself. Beyond the fact that the slowness of the process of the measure has depended not on the so-called lobby but on political choices, I continue stubbornly to think that in a democratic state there can be no regulations, statutes or rules that maintain in the face of the transparent and integrity of the parliamentarians and the ruler. This behaviour becomes the only barrier to the pressure of social forces, businesses, the social partners, intermediate bodies and also intermediaries and contractors. I advise Senator Castaldi not to draw up the list of influential lobbyists because, if you are not objective, you end up making it clear which lobby you are referring to and what you intend to support. Senator Scalia, unjustly attacked by a false pageant in a judicial newspaper, reminded us that on this bill a part of the media and opinionists have expressed biased and superficial judgments. To Senator Galimberti I say: of course you can do more; but I point out to the senators and senators that what we will vote for is much more, for the better, than the current state of the market and competition in Italy. Those who vote on this bill do something good for consumers, for competition, for the market in our country. Then, when the "beautiful souls" deign to give examples of what more can be done, they quote, in fact, only two themes: C-belt drugs and taxi drivers, forgetting the content of the more than 70 articles of this bill. I agree with the positions expressed by Senator Fucksia, but above all with the exceptional intervention of Senator De Biasi. Band C drugs are not comparable products, as Senator De Biasi recalled, to packages of ham or bottles of detergent and not by chance the Constitutional Court and the European Court of Justice recognized the social value of pharmacies: they recognized that pharmacies provide the citizen with easy and safe access to the drug, a garrison of certainty and credibility. It is no coincidence that in the world C-band drugs are sold exclusively in pharmacies (I believe there is only one country that sells them outside pharmacies). Without distorting the system, if we want a reduction in the price of medicines with non-reciprocal recipes, we need to act on two levers, just as we did in this bill: on the plurality of corporate forms (in fact, we have introduced capital companies alongside other historical forms of pharmacies) and on the number of pharmacies. In 2015 in Italy there were 18,200 pharmacies, to which are being added, with so much delay, another 2,500: are many or are few for the competition? Well, in Italy there is one pharmacy for every 2,900 inhabitants; the European average is one for every 4,300 inhabitants, in the United Kingdom and in Germany there is a ratio of one to 4,000 inhabitants. Of course, there is the problem of the patent linkage. I agree that action on the price of medicines will also have to be taken on this aspect, i.e. on the patent coverage of the original reference product. The problem of parapharmacies must be solved, as Senator De Biasi always recalled. Leaving them as they are is a mistake; they represent an Italian anomaly, which has caused disappointments and failures and very few successes and that certainly will not resolve even if we were to bring C-band drugs in such exercises; it will only solve - and this is my personal opinion - by transporting the parapharmacies, those owned by a pharmacist not possessing other pharmacies, within the system of Italian pharmacies. (The sitting was suspended at 10 a.m. and resumed at 10 a.m.) (The sitting was suspended at 10 a.m. and resumed at 10 a.m.) To conclude the chapter on pharmacies, I believe that the government must rethink the excessive ceiling of 20%, as Senators Mandelli and D'Ambrosio have mentioned, as well as provide for a form of compensation for pharmacists' pension funds. As I imagined that the subject of an unambitious competition bill would come out in the debate, in my opening report I supported the opposite, arguing the sectors involved and the fact that this bill could not, like the subsequent ones, be an epochal measure. On the other hand, we are already among the highest OECD countries in terms of liberalisation. I say this to Senators Girotto and Cervellini, who claim that the monopolies have not been hit. I remember that, in this bill, Booking was hit, even against my opinion, but I take note of it. I also remember that the intervention on RC cars is an advantage in favour of motorists rather than insurance companies (which indeed scream), as well as for telephone, supplementary insurance, Post Office and also for energy. I do not believe that Enel, Hera, and A2a make leaps of joy, taking into account what the path of realization of this bill will entail. Senator Casaletto, in a beautiful intervention of an entirely ideological nature but not of merit, criticizes us for being subject to the European Union and not to believe in the enterprise but - I translate - to the world of oligopolies and great finance. This is the beauty of competition: anything can be said without talking about the content of competition. Senator Crimes said some things that could be shared, but you can't tell who's controversial. We have not asked for the liberalization of passenger transport with driver: the taxis continue to do, possibly better, with more quality, honesty and professionalism, their profession, using more and more and correctly the technological platforms and the NCCs have a new regulation, I think with regional operation, putting a brake on the concessions to burst from the municipalities happened in recent years. So no wild liberalisation. To Senator Puppato I want to point out that the abolition of the tacit renewal of the risks ancillary to the main risk of RC Auto is not a gift to the insurances but is the exact opposite. PUPPATE (PD). You're making a mistake. It's got nothing to do with it. MARINO Luigi, rapporteur. Many interventions represented the constructive climate established in the 10th Commission ( 132 amendments were not by chance adopted, some of which were important in oppositions). The Senators Scalia, Berger, Lanzillotta and the Senators of the opposition Mandelli, Perrone, D'Ambrosio Lettieri, Council and Giovanardi agreed on the need to return - with a fast route - to 10a Commission, to make adjustments and additions. I have spoken at the outset - and I am speaking for myself even now - in favour of this move to the Commission in order to eliminate, modify and supplement small parts of the measure, for example the question raised today by Senator Gasparri. It would be right to do so after nine months when this measure has been on standby and to raise the concern that, if the Senate does not do so, the House will do so, reopening - in all areas - the amendments on the parts of the measure modified by the Senate (I remember that the articles here in the Senate have gone from 52 to 74). Finally, Mr President, with thanks (for us rapporteurs, as Senator Tomaselli will also say, not formal but genuine, because we have passed on to this measure part of our life), first and foremost to the members of the Commission, opposition and majority, and to President Cucchetti for the direction and contribution of ideas and proposals. Then to the Parliamentary Councillor Valeria Giammusso and to all the staff of the Industry Commission for the wide availability and high professionalism demonstrated. I thank the Government: the ministers Finocchiaro and Calenda, the undersecretary Gentile and the staff of the Ministry. With all these we have had lively, interesting dialectical comparisons, but I believe extremely productive. Finally, I thank the collaborators and collaborators of my Group and of the PD Group and finally a hug to my colleague and friend Senator Tomaselli, who supported me, and patiently endured Puglia, in a difficult but of great commitment and interest. [[Applause from the PD Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-816.ana.u24	I call the rapporteur, Senator Tomaselli.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-816.ana.u25	Mr President, I begin my speech, rather than finishing it, with my thanks. Mr Marino mentioned all of them, so that we do not forget anyone, I would like to express my thanks to all those with whom we have collaborated positively in this long journey: from the offices of the Senate Commission to the parliamentary colleagues, the government, the staff and so on. I would also like to thank my colleagues who, during this debate, expressed their appreciation for our work, for the work of everyone, not just the rapporteurs; for the civil confrontation that I believe we have achieved fruitful and positive. I would also like to thank those few colleagues - very few, I must say - who, in the course of this debate, apart from the lack of thanks - but that is not the issue - have instead let themselves be made statements of pure propaganda. When this happens it becomes plastically visible and much clearer, even within the opposition groups themselves, the contribution of merit to propaganda, which in these classrooms should leave room, precisely, to the merit of confrontation on the issues and to serving the institutions with competence, passion and commitment. I'd leave the propaganda to the streets and the rallies. The objective of this bill was ambitious from the beginning; if I may say, it became even more ambitious during the long parliamentary journey both in the first reading in the House and in the second here in the Senate: removing the barriers to the entry of new economic subjects in the production of goods and services and the regulation - perhaps perhaps outdone - daughter of other economic, regulatory and regulatory contexts. In this sense I do not agree with the passage in which Mr Tocci, with a joke, wondered why every year - but every year it is not - to the regulation of individual or more sectors. In fact, this bill rather starts from the need to overcome regulations that are now daughters of another era. Finally, the measure aims to create more opportunities, more fluid markets, more affordable prices of goods and services, thus more employment, more income. In a word, the ambition of this bill is along that path, not always simple, of parliamentary work, but also of the commitment with which more governments have been engaged in the last twenty years: the idea of trying to reform this country without burdens for the public budget, without resources, but putting hand to the rules. More modern rules, more open rules not only create more fluid markets, as I said before, but constitute opportunities: for young people who want to enter the world of professions; for the small and medium-sized enterprise that wants to try out in the production of goods and services; for the professional who wants to try out with new ways of carrying out his activity. Sure, there are limits. I too have allowed myself in the introductory report to indicate two, which I repeat. I would have liked this bill, because of its complexity - which has gradually increased - to be fired, having at least started, if not finally, the discussion of two major issues. The first concerns the regulation of lobbying: Mr Battista referred to it. We tried to do that; at the same time, the Committee on Constitutional Affairs was looking at several draft laws on this subject, and we have therefore with respect waited for that process to be completed. But this is a mature issue today; we have also seen it in the long debate, sometimes tortuous and sometimes controversial, which accompanied this bill. With transparency, on the one hand, but without infiction and without hypocrisy, on the other, I believe that today a regulation of the subject of the relationship between public decision-makers, political decision-makers, institutions and those who represent, in a completely transparent and legal way, legitimate interests is ripe. The second theme is ambitious and is also the subject of draft laws to the attention of some parliamentary committees in the House and the Senate. It is a subject that I think is now mature, also in terms of organic treatment; I am referring to the so-called economy of sharing and the digital economy, which often coincide. Volgarily called sharing economy, the economy of sharing often takes place through web applications, which are changing the habits and everyday lifestyles of consumers also in our country. That is why all this needs modern and effective regulation, which enhances its quality and opportunities, including as regards new relations and relations between producers of goods and services and the vast world of consumers. We must be clear - it has been clear to us rapporteurs, but I believe that it has been clear to all our colleagues and to those who have been passionate about this work and this debate - how they are involved, in such disruptive innovations, also problems that must be assumed in some way and not hypocritically avoided. So, if I may summarize it in a few lines, this is the general sense of this work and of this measure. On the other hand, as Mr Marino has done, I would like to reiterate a number of points of the work that we have done. On the subject of energy, I have heard it reiterate in the course of the debate - and this, as we have often seen and read, has also peeped out in the debate in the newspapers of the past months - that overcoming greater protection is a gift to oligopolies and a harm to consumers. Look, I think exactly the opposite. This regime, as I said in the initial report and I repeat it, was from the beginning - now ten years have passed - a transitional and non-permanent regime, intended to accompany the completion and final completion of the process of liberalisation of the energy sector in our country, which began twenty years ago on the production front and which must continue on the retail distribution and market front, with the attention paid to consumers. Maintaining the status quo, that is, this current regime, is the real gift to oligopolies, if it is true - as my colleague Mr Cucchetti recalled - that today this market, the so-called retail market, aimed at both SMEs and consumers, is in great part (for four fifths) in the hands of a single operator. Stabilising and crystallizing this situation is the real gift to oligopolies. Instead, we made another choice; the Renzi Government did so, when it approved the original bill and reiterated it to the Chamber of Deputies, enriching that provision; we did so, if I may, recalling the criteria underlying the process of liberalization and overcoming the greater protection, which are punctual criteria, aimed at putting consumer awareness at the centre, as a protagonist. This process goes in the direction of overcoming oligopolies, of making the consumer the protagonist and of investing in a path of consumer awareness and capacity. As for the other proposals, even those who want to maintain the status quo, almost a hat aimed at enhancing the inertia of the consumer, photograph the idea of an Italian consumer and, therefore, of a family, of a small and medium-sized enterprise, of a citizen of our country in some way lazy, inert and unable to choose; these are really a gift to the great oligopolies. There is another point that Mr Girotto has raised here in the debate and often also in the Commission, with great civilization, with great correctness and with great competence. Mr Girotto, on the contrary, I should like to acknowledge this to you, ladies and gentlemen of your Group, who have here only "baked to the moon" by propaganda on other issues. He poses a theme that we have also shared with the Government, that is, how one rewards and in some way values one of the most significant innovations of the last ten years in that process of liberalisation, that is, the self-production of energy; that is, how one values and rewards the capacity of self-production that small and medium-sized enterprises, but also individual families, have made their own in recent years, especially with reference to renewable sources, with closed distribution systems and the so-called distributed generation. We have not accepted in the Commission the significant and sensible proposals, beyond the individual technical merit, of Mr Girotto, because we have a commitment, which the Government has formally and publicly made, for an organic measure on this issue, which I believe will be issued in the coming weeks. I confirm, however, that this is an issue with which we must try to complete, also here, a process of liberalisation of the energy sector in which our country can proudly claim to be among the most active and most advanced Western countries. The second issue of merit is the issue of insurance. I refer here to two issues: the rule on the so-called witnesses of convenience, criticized by my colleague Stefani, in relation to accidents and therefore on the subject of RC cars; the issue of the adoption of the so-called Milan tables - introduced by the Chamber of Deputies, and which we have confirmed absolutely such - also mentioned yesterday by my colleague De Biasi in his speech. The first measure is to combat with even more transparent and more certain rules, in the same judicial proceedings that are often triggered when there are accidents and when there is a need to protect the consumer citizen who is the victim of an accident and when, on the other hand, there is the insurance that must be paid. Often, in fact, in our country, beyond the concrete concentration of such phenomena in some areas of the country, there have been deep-rooted phenomena of real scams. The standard on the witnesses of convenience is an anti-swind rule, in a very transparent way, while the adoption of the tables of Milan is a strongly contested norm. There has been talk of the so-called fantastic gifts made to the insurances: other than gift, this is a norm strongly opposed and contested by the insurance companies and the same ANIA, because the adoption of those tables gives certainty to the victims of the road, eliminating a whole series of mediations that often lives and vegetates around the disputes, overcoming this mediation often parasitic, and giving certainty of reimbursement to the victims of the road, including the cases of more serious accidents in which unfortunately there are also losses of human lives, and protecting all the actors of this long, and sometimes perverse, iter of subjects in some way interested. The other theme is that of RC cars: the House has done a job that we have not disowned, dear colleague Romano, but I appreciate the tones with which you have placed an objective theme, that of the extreme disparity that exists, from the tariff point of view, in some areas of the country. We have worked to the last on this point, the one on which, rather than for others, we used the chisel, up to the commas and adjectives, to make the standard approved to the House enforceable and concretely feasible. We worked so that the norm, while remaining within a market logic that for twenty years has abandoned the so-called administered prices, would make it possible to recognize the virtuosity of those consumers who in some areas of the country are forced today to pay unbearable and unsustainable tariffs, even though they are virtuous consumers. The last subject I would like to mention, which is also topical, is that of transport, which is often identified as the NCC and taxi theme. I have heard some colleagues remember that taxi drivers often protest, because someone has somehow "disturbed" them or called them into question. In fact, ladies and gentlemen, we have a non-scheduled public transport legislation that is hypocritical, anachronistic, 20 years old or older, and whenever you want to put your hand in overcoming this hypocrisy, there is something that does not work even from the point of view - if I may say so - of the institutional relationship between categories, government and Parliament. I would hope then - it is here also the sense of delegation - that we would take six or even ten months and reason on some criteria together, as it was done two months ago, and I would like to say to my colleagues who have reminded him that the interministerial decree, implementing the agreement signed with taxi drivers and NCC two months ago, is ready and has also been submitted for comparison with the categories concerned and will be fired in the next few days, if not in the next few hours. I wonder if the time has come for a modern and not hypocritical regulation that builds on two fundamental concepts: the first concept, which is the architrave of non-scheduled public transport and which no one wants to ignore, but which is probably to be declined in a more modern and efficient way, still insists on the unavoidable role of taxis and taxi drivers; the second concept is that the market in recent years - and the same category of taxi drivers - has dealt with the breach of instruments, as I said at the beginning, that they have changed the relationship between users of services (consumers) and providers of services (in this case the same taxi drivers). There is an application, which is not that of Uber but it is called Mytaxi, owned by a large European company, which in the city of Rome in the last six months has associated - I think spontaneously, nobody forced them - 1,400 taxi drivers, not NCC. A modern country must reason on these issues and not live, colleague Cervellini and others, for "typhoseries." It must take these themes and solve them in terms of modern and effective synthesis with which to enhance the architrave of the public transport line that is entrusted to the taxi drivers, but not hypocritically and closing the eyes to what the technology has produced in recent years, changing, despite us, the tastes and habits of the consumers. As someone says, it's really complicated to stop the water or wind with your hands. Finally, we wanted to accept - but there will be no way because I imagine that the question of confidence in the measure will be raised in the next few minutes, so that this lengthy examination will come to an end, and I agree that this point will be defined in the Senate House with the widest possible approval of the measure - some of the amendments proposed by colleagues with the amendments tabled and the result of a review of the text laid down by the Commission in August. There was the theme posed by my colleague, Mr Puppato, which concerned the tacit renewal, which we shared, and there was an amendment that we would have liked to welcome because the theme posed by Senator Puppato is useful and acceptable. We would have liked to have taken action on Article 29, which concerns the transitional regime for overcoming the regime of greater protection, and better defining the subject of the transition. The theme of the pharmacies was recalled by colleagues Marino and Lucchetti: the decision to lower that roof was shared by majority, opposition and also by the Ministry of Economic Development itself. Then there was the theme of dental societies. On the subject of taxis we would have liked to limare - even on the point there is a very wide sharing also with the Government - letter b) of the delegation with which we would have avoided any misunderstanding and determined a greater tranquility of all the actors of the system. These changes are entirely acceptable to Parliament and to the Government itself. I hope that, as agreed, they will be able to be part of one of the next most immediate measures in order to correct errors in part and to take some re-examinations. I think, however, that we are delivering to the Chamber of Deputies a measure that was already important and useful in itself to remove the barriers I was talking about at the beginning and to make the markets of our country more fluid, to build an area of greater opportunities. The work done in the Senate with the contribution of all (majority, opposition and government) makes these objectives even more ambitious and closer. [[Applause from the PD Group and Senator Buemi.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-816.ana.u26	I warn the House that Senator Malan has made a request not to move on to the discussion of the articles and asks to speak. The intervention should have taken place during the general discussion, because we are now in the process of responding.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-816.ana.u27	Mr President, as you have said, I have formalized what the rapporteurs themselves have said in introducing the measure, which they have called for a return to the Commission. It is clear that neither I nor the rapporteurs have a obstructive intent: it was intended to give a service to the country. These rules have been very complex and intervene in a number of very broad areas. The measure was concluded in the Commission last August and these amendments were necessary. The last speaker, Senator Tomaselli, said that they would like to speak on many aspects. Why would they want to? We are in the Senate: if we want changes, we make them; what does that mean? Let's pass the provision to the House with all these "we wanted to change" and then the House will modify it and return to the Senate for an approval? Or even that the House will approve it with the "we would have liked"? Do we want to approve a measure that is clear from the outset that is not good? I would say no: let us return to the Commission. Senator Mandelli, speaking in general debate, also said that on the part of Forza Italia - I do not think there are any different intentions on the part of the other opposition - there is no obstructive intention, but simply a desire to improve this measure, which has been firm since August. We have allowed eight months to pass; let us pass a few more weeks to allow a rapid and effective transition to the Commission and do a good job. If you do not want to accept this proposal, that means that you prefer to do a bad job just to say: We have passed a law, a law that is full of things that are not going, as the rapporteur himself has admitted. I repeat, the rapporteurs themselves have said from the outset that they wish to return to the Commission. I formalise what the rapporteurs themselves have proposed, and I hope that this House will agree.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-816.ana.u28	Senator Malan, I can't grasp your proposal. You want a return to the Commission, but your request is not to do so. The consequences of not going through the articles are not what you would like. The requests for a return to the Commission were to be made at another time in the parliamentary procedure. I say this in order to make it clear that we are voting on a request not to move on to the examination of the articles. I call the representative of the Government.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-816.ana.u29	Mr Grasso, ladies and gentlemen, after a long wait, we are finally discussing the draft competition law. The length and difficulties of his parliamentary journey - which will have to be completed in the Chamber of Deputies in the coming weeks - are a sign of the complexity and breadth of the issues addressed by the measure. As you know, the bill stems from the report sent to Parliament and the Government by the Garante della Competenza, whose help and support is an essential pungolo for the Government and for the country. The report, in turn, responds to a precise legal obligation, which commits the Authority to periodically submit to the attention of Parliament, the legislator, a series of proposals aimed at opening up the markets and promoting competition. Mr Calenda has already anticipated that a new competition measure will be adopted as soon as the one under discussion has been adopted. The bill, as you know, intervenes on multiple issues. Just to mention the most important: insurance, post, telecommunications, energy, environment, banks, professions, health services, tourism, transport services, and some simplification measures. The contents of the 74 articles fired by the Industry Commission, which I thank for their excellent and thorough work, have already been clearly and punctually illustrated by the rapporteurs, so I will not dwell on the technical aspects. On the other hand, I would like to make a number of general and political points. When the Government adopted the first draft of the bill it was well aware of the difficulties and risks it was taking. Liberalizing the economy means creating new opportunities for investment, jobs and growth, but it also means discontenting so many people and so many interests. Unfortunately, the weight of the lobbyists has been very strong throughout the debate, which, not surprisingly, lasted perhaps over a year and a half. If we're here, it's because we were able to resist those pressures. Politics, whenever it wants, decides, even if late. The history of the competition bill is therefore a very positive story. It is the history of a complex measure that proceeds because there is a precise, explicit and strong political will of the Government and the majority. Good ideas, however, we know, do not walk alone but on the legs of men. For this reason, I would like to express my gratitude to the speakers, the Senators Luigi Marino and Salvatore Tomaselli, as well as to President Mucchetti who, although starting from different visions, managed to sum up the great and complex problem that we had submitted to their verification. I would also like to thank Mr Finocchiaro with conviction for his determination and skill over the last few months, who was able to get this measure out of the sand to finally bring it to the Senate Chamber. Thank you and, along with you, I thank all the senators who, with their amendments and their stimuli, have helped us to improve the measure, making it fairer and more effective. In spite of so many often ingenious criticisms, I think we have done a good job together. Beyond the winged discussions, in the draft competition law there are measures that intervene deeply in our economy, rules that produce and will produce far-reaching changes. They will produce changes on the supply side because the competition bill opens up to new markets and removes historically equipped anachronistic barriers to block all processes of growth and innovation in the country. There will be changes on the demand side because consumers will have new opportunities and new safeguards, and they will be able to take advantage of greater freedom of choice in many areas. Finally, there will be changes in the role of public institutions, a role that must evolve, because the world changes, and we must change with it. The measures contained in the draft competition law will make an important contribution to the development of our country. In the long run they will produce an increase in GDP of the order of 1%. It is not a figure to be underestimated, because if you think about it, in its aridity, it is an impressive number and behind the number there is an even more important impact on the life of Italians and Italians who, as consumers, will be able to enjoy more affordable and diversified services, or, as entrepreneurs, they will be able to translate their ideas into new projects that will make Italy a more dynamic, innovative and richer country. Competition is neither a dark economic concept nor an empty philosophy. Competition is, first of all, a method: it is the awareness that freedom of choice is a very powerful weapon in the hands of citizens, because it allows them to choose the best, most convenient, most innovative products. In a word: the products that best meet their needs. Products that make their lives better. In democracy, the people are sovereign: in a competitive market, in the same way, sovereign must be the consumer. The government believes in competition and believes in this measure. Within the framework of the National Reform Programme, which represents the polar star of this Government, its rapid approval is defined as "imprescible": in a word so strong and so rough hides the full determination to continue the reform process, initiated in 2014 by the Renzi Government and carried out today by the Government Gentiloni Silveri. Without these reforms, Italy would not be starting today outside the droughts of the recession. And it is with this awareness, ladies and gentlemen, that I ask you to approve the bill for competition and make it yours. In addressing this invitation, I am sure that each of you could point to an article, a paragraph, a passage in which the text can be improved. Of course, it can be improved, I am the first to recognize it: perfection is not in human things. Our choice, however, is not to do perfect things: it is to do things, or not to do things. We decided to do it. This does not mean that the government is impervious to the observations that emerged during the discussion, indeed. Many are acceptable and deserve special attention. Given the nature of the bill and the long work already done, there is no resistance on the part of the Government to assess, in the context of future measures, starting from the next competition law, the possibility of introducing further improvements, corrections or refinements. I am thinking in particular of the most sensitive issues that I have heard in this House, and, as an example, the subject that has been raised in recent days by Senators Montevecchi, Gotor and others, on which further reflection is needed. I also think of all the other innovations introduced by this bill. Our approach to competition and the market is Galileo's: to try and try again, until we reach the certainty of the measure. The measures contained in the measure before us must be put to the test and, where necessary, corrected: but first of all, it must be put into effect, given that the improvement is always incremental, it is never definitive. You have to do something and more. The law that will come out of the Senate today, and that will soon receive the final green light, is therefore only a starting point. To help the country return to growth, this bill, as well as any other measure, is not a goal in itself: it is a concrete step forward, to which another and then another must follow. Our responsibility is to do our best to help the country regain its future. Competition, the market and simplification are instruments that we cannot do without. Our work, I mean, doesn't end here. I believe that we will go to the House to bring about a measure that has a constancy, a commitment, a cure from the Government, but also from Parliament. It is Europe's challenge and we must be good at it and be able to respect it. For these reasons, we are asking you for a vote in favour. [[Applause from the PD and AP-CpE groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-816.ana.u30	I would like to inform you that the Presidency - and I am in distribution - has received the opinions of the 1st and 5th standing Commission on the draft law under consideration and the amendments, which will be published in an annex to today's report.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-816.ana.u31	We greet the members of the delegation of the Regional Parliament of the young people of Puglia who follow our work from the forums and whom I will meet as soon as possible. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-816.ana.u32	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-816.ana.u33	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-816.ana.u34	CASTALDI (M5S). Mr President, I should like to speak briefly on the order of business. I'm a little rusty about the Rules of Procedure, because we haven't discussed them for over a year, but if I'm not mistaken, Senator Malan's request should have gone to the vote before the government intervenes. I would like to take this opportunity because we have to say what we are doing: the return to the Commission of this measure, which has not been put to the vote, would have been a very good result. In fact, we, the opposition forces, have worked very well and therefore we could give an scope to the review, once and decide the arguments to be addressed again. It would have taken the courage of Parliament, but above all of the relative majority power, of a senator of theirs who had stood up to ask to put to the vote the return to the Commission, giving, for once, strength to Parliament against the wrong will of the Government to put confidence in this measure. It is certainly not up to us to do so, but for once the Senate could have pointed out and executed its own will. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-816.ana.u35	I put to the vote the proposal not to move on to the examination of the articles, made by Senator Malan. It's not approved. CIOFFI (M5S). Let's ask for a rehearsal. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I order the doors closed. We proceed to counter-test by electronic procedure. It's not approved. He asked the Minister for Relations with Parliament, Senator Finocchiaro. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-816.ana.u36	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, on behalf of the Government, authorised by the Council of Ministers, I raise the question of confidence in the adoption of the amendment that I am going to present, entirely replacing the articles of draft law No 2085 in the text approved by the Commission, which also contains some technical amendments.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-816.ana.u37	The Presidency notes that the question of confidence has been put on the approval of the entirely replacement amendment tabled by the Government. I immediately call upon the Conference of Leaders to establish the timing of the debate on the issue of trust. The sitting is suspended. (The sitting was suspended at 11.32 a.m. and resumed at 11.48 a.m.)
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-816.ana.u38	The Conference of Leaders organised the discussions on the question of trust posed by the Government on the amendment entirely replacing the draft law on the market and competition. One hour and twenty minutes were allocated for the discussion, on the basis of specific requests from the Groups. The sitting will be suspended at 2 p.m. and will resume at 3 p.m. with explanations of vote. It will follow the call that will therefore take place around 16.40 hours.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-816.ana.u39	I declare open the debate on the question of trust. Senator Gasparri is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-816.ana.u40	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, there is no one on the benches of the government, but the problem is precisely the lack of government and I must speak about the absence of government in the absence of government, which I think makes sense.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-816.ana.u41	I ask the Undersecretary Pizzetti to take his place in the government's benches.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-816.ana.u42	Gasparri (FI-PdL XVII). He is not the defendant of my dispute either, but he will rightly bear the burden of relations with Parliament. I would like to draw the House's attention to what can happen, as I said in general debate. Article 71 of this measure deals with the issue of delegation for the revision of the rules on non-scheduled public services. This is the question of taxis, so we understand each other better, not the NGOs that make taxis for illegals: that is an abusive exercise. Let's talk about the taxi service. You will recall, ladies and gentlemen, that a few weeks ago, due to an inopportune decision on the inclusion of an amendment in the so-called milleproroghe, the solution of a dispute between taxis, driver-rentalists and new technological forms such as Uber, which have recently also been the subject of very severe judicial decisions, was frustrated. Therefore, there is no obscurantism on the one hand and progress on the other: there are interests in support of Uber and some realities - whether transparent or not - that occasionally emerge. When, inappropriately, there has been an intervention in this part of Parliament on the thousand-pronge, postponing a whole series of issues of the regulations that have not entered into force, there has been a strong protest. At some point, all taxis blocked the streets around the Senate and asked to be heard in the Constitutional Affairs Committee. Rightly, in the Senate it was said that those who blocked the roads and had to unblock the roads would not be allowed to enter the Commission in order to be able to discuss them. I personally took charge - it's all documented, because SKY broadcast live - of this right observation and went to the street in front of the Senate to say: "Sirs, if you want to speak, blockages, delays and protests." And so it was. They came to the Commission, they were heard; the text remained the wrong one, but at least a negotiation took place. I would like the Undersecretary Pizzetti to listen to me, because the subject will become a matter of public order in a few days, if not in a few hours and will notice, that the problem exists. I already said that three hours ago: do not underestimate the matter. The government, in front of that dispute taxi-NCC was late to convene a meeting. I myself called the leader Zanda (there will be the interceptions of the judiciary) and I told him that the dispute could not be underestimated. I also called Minister Finocchiaro. After that, I called the Minniti Interior Minister, telling him that someone was supposed to listen to those people. Do you remember the matter? The taxi strikes, the interruption of the service, the anti-shooting authority that wanted to punish them: here everyone does what they want and the anti-shooting authority wanted to flogged the taxi drivers. After my phone call to the Minister of Interior Minniti, whom I called because it was also a problem of public order, with sudden strikes, and a question pertaining to social life, the Government, since Thursday, since Delrio had fever, if I am not mistaken, convened taxi representatives and NCC on Tuesday, with a promptness worthy of an incompetent (but the Government is what it is). The categories calmed down and it was said - I don't remember the exact date - that by mid-March a ministerial decree would regulate the matter. Today it is 3 May and the ministerial decree, which even, as an administrative act, does not require a vote by Parliament, has not yet seen the light. This morning I saw that Article 71 remains a phrase, inserted in the Commission, which we feel is wrong. In point (b) of this article it is said that it is necessary: "To adapt the provision of services to the new forms of mobility" - and so far it is - "to be carried out through web applications" - and this is the progress - "that use technological platforms for the interconnection of passengers and drivers;" It is the Uber theme and surroundings and in the article the government is delegated to do this. Judgments have also been made on these issues. The government had started negotiations, but the negotiations did not end and taxi drivers and NCCs were deceived. I myself, this morning, because I am acting in transparency and I am interested in finding solutions and not in instrumental agitation, I called Deputy Minister Nencini and I said to him: this is not good, because you have not finished that negotiation and now there is an amendment hostile to those categories. What are you doing? An agency just came out at 11:10 a.m., saying, With the approval by the Senate Chamber of the draft competition law and the related delegation to the Government on the transport sector, action will be taken on the adaptation of the offer to the new technologies, the contrast to the abuse and the promotion of competition. On the subject of regulation of the new digital platforms of the sector (such as Uber and Mytaxi) sources of the MISE confirm that the legislative decrees will be decisive and that there is an openness to dialogue and confrontation with the world of taxi drivers and NCCs by the Ministry and by the same minister Carlo Calenda. This note came out just now, having made a mess in the Commission, and the blameless Undersecretary Gentile, whom I esteem (I say it with sincerity, it is not a formal act), has nothing to do with it. But you are here and you have to realize the roughness of the Government that you have the misfortune to represent and the inadequacy of Calenda, that you know nothing about these things, because you lived among the brioches, it is like Mary Antoinette who, when they told you that the people wanted bread, replied to give him the brioches. Waiting for the brioche of Calenda, which is used to directors and another world, is not Senator Gentile, who is like us who went to the streets to talk to voters (he doesn't know Calenda these things, so I absolve him for not having understood the fact), soon a little problem will break out, because you took for the taxi drivers and NCC shoulders with the Delrio-Nencini negotiation, which had no conclusion. Then comes a notarella that says "dialogeraremo", after this morning this coast has happened: it is really an irresponsible thing what you are doing. I don't know how they're gonna protest the categories, they're gonna do what they want. Then there's some party, who doesn't know anything about these things, and it's gonna jump on the issue. In fact, the Pentastellates read the newspapers and jump on the problems: they passed all the immigration laws, they said that NGOs were doing well and then, as soon as they learned to read the first letters, Di Maio said that they support the fight to non-governmental organizations, who always support. Now they will also support this battle, but the categories know who defends the work, Senator Gentile. We do not defend lobbying; others defend lobbying, like Uber. This measure, as you amended it (and you could correct the maxi amendment), creates confusion and betrays the commitments of the Government, which I myself have helped to maintain, since we have gone as a force of opposition, to say to leave the streets and to dialogue with Parliament and with governments. We encouraged dialogue, so we were used by the government, which mocks these categories. We won't use it a second time, and if there are people who will protest, they will have every reason. I say this to future memory, also to Santoro Passarelli, to the Authority on strikes: that they were not allowed, in the face of the deception of governments, to think that the categories do not have the right to protest, because the protests, sometimes, also explode in an unregulated way and without preannouncement, if there are unfair governments. Today is May 3rd and where is the Delrio-Nencini agreement with the categories? Undersecretary Gentile, you who are a concrete politician, let yourself be given an assignment, instead of being in that Ministry, go to that of transport and solve this problem. Calenda will then understand it later, because he will be born and raised with private drivers and with baby-sitters, so he of taxi drivers and people who work on the streets has no idea; but at least he does not disturb all those who deal with concrete problems. Mine is an intervention that I leave to future memory of what might happen. [[Applause from Senator Rizzotti]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-816.ana.u43	Senator D'Ambrosio Lettieri is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-816.ana.u44	Madam President, Mr Undersecretary, ladies and gentlemen, I have hoped until the last minute that a different path would be taken than the one that had been feared, namely that of a vote of confidence. Instead, we are faced with the Government's request for yet another vote of confidence, which I find, this time, really unmotivated compared to the previous ones. Unmotivated because in the broad debate that has developed in general debate was mentioned by the speakers, by the rapporteurs themselves, by her herself, Mr Undersecretary, of how and how much there has been fruitful work, by the political forces of majority and opposition, in trying to give the country a better measure. Of course, I agree, Mr Undersecretary, that the best is an enemy of good, but we could have done something better and in a very short time. The proposals had been made in a precise and detailed way; there had been the precise and precise declination of a will of all the oppositions not to take the path of obstructionism and to collaborate in a synergistic way with the Government and with the majority, in order to ensure that this measure had positive effects on the country system. 11:59 a.m. (Followed by ambersio lettieri). As has been mentioned, liberalization is an issue that cannot and must no longer represent an ideological node within which the approaches and methods to draw a horizon of hope are tightened. Liberalisation is a means of achieving an end: the aim is to obtain, for the benefit of citizens, systems that are competing and that produce better access to services and lower costs. This will not happen, and I dare say that it is not worth the late repentance, which I have also heard in this House, by some of my colleagues in the Democratic Party, recalling old wrong measures, for example in the pharmaceutical sector. Late repentance is not worth anything when damage is already produced. So here is my regret, which I had expressed in general debate and which I regret to have to repeat now. An attitude of arrogance is intertwined with an attitude of irresponsibility. The arrogance through which Parliament is exonerated of its function and even the consensus of the majority forces is obtained, which obeys more the logic of the party than the need and duty of the popular mandate, and the irresponsibility, since we are not wondering what effects, in positive terms, will determine for our community the measure that we are about to implement. The effects will be negative. But do you or do you not believe what all observers and opinionists, for example in the pharmaceutical sector, are saying now? They say that the system is bent on its knees, because economically there is a crisis that has caused devastating effects on the estate of the Italian pharmacy, which represents a fundamental network of welfare services of our territorial health. The effect of this law will be that of the entry of capital provided without any roof (because the 20 percent roof is a fake roof), with the prevalence of the logic of capital over professional freedom: these are the liberal professions subjected and subject to the logic of profit, in a drifting marketer that hurts. Many opacityes are hidden behind this measure, which obviously go in the opposite direction to the promise: a direction that winks the eye to the economic potentates and the true lobbyists and, instead, punishes the interests and expectations of our community. To such an attitude we can only respond with our most determined regret and also with our sense of unbelief because, compared to the work done by the rapporteurs, by the political forces all, even with a good coordination of the government's activity, we could have taken the next step and delivered to the country a measure certainly better than this shake of ambiguity, which will certainly not do good neither to the community nor to the development of the country's economy. That is why we will vote strongly against the issue of trust. [[Applause from the Mixed Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-816.ana.u45	Senator Council is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-816.ana.u46	Mr President, there is still confidence: not that we did not expect it, of course, but the regret remains that, despite the excellent cooperation with the two rapporteurs and with the Secretary-General Gentile and the good relations that have characterized the work in the Commission in all these months, another confidence has been placed. A confidence that does not give space to the amending work that has been done in the Commission, aimed exclusively at improving the draft law, so that the issue could be definitively distorted, in order to allow citizens - who must always be at the heart of parliamentary work - to enjoy better economic conditions, but above all to affirm the principle that those who produce and sell must be absolutely protected. I do not know what this confidence will bring, because the provision will pass to the Chamber and we will see if the question of trust will be raised there too, always to speed up the slowness of this provision, or if some changes will be introduced: we will discover - as someone said - only living. We have not always been able to interpret this measure in a positive way: a bill on competition which is born with good wishes, but which has then been covered up for reasons that still escape us or perhaps for the ability of some strong powers and some lobby to put pressure. The term "lobby" is always meant in the negative sense, perhaps because it is exploited, but lobbying is not a bad thing, because it means protecting one's own interests. But we are Parliament and we should legislate in such a way as to protect, in addition to lobbying, citizens as consumers and users of services. Many Members have spoken in the general debate - and we are still speaking on the question of trust - but I would like to thank Minister Finocchiaro for listening, at least in part, to the debate: we are very pleased, since we were not used to it with Mr Boschi. Perhaps some consider liberalisation as the panacea of all evils; I do not know how many GDP points they think they will recover and whether they think they will increase the workforce, the employed and the stables. All I know is that ISTAT's latest figures are rather pitiful, as unemployment is at 12-13 per cent (more than three million unemployed). I am not talking about the issue of what are called, in a negative sense, corporations. I do not understand how we can give a negative meaning to the term "corporazione" in a country like ours, with its history and culture, where the little one is beautiful, like the fact of passing on the work of father to son. I really don't understand what's negative. We have often talked about liberalisation, and we have blamed Europe for its merits. The mother of all liberalisations was for us a tremendous boomerang, the famous Bolkenstein, a directive perhaps mistakenly called so, because it triggered the anger of streetwalkers, taxi drivers, beach workers and a flood of other economic operators. The implementation of this directive, already at the time of its presentation, caused a sea of controversy and a hornet of protests by all states. But the governments shared Mr. Bolkestein's vision. According to his opinion, services in Europe had to be subject to drastic liberalisation. This would bring more competition, greater opportunities for businesses, lower costs for consumers. The example of the Romanian plumber became famous. In fact, according to the so-called principle of the Country of origin or establishment if a Romanian company wants to propose its services throughout Europe, it can do so according to Romanian law even if it works in Italy. Indeed, if a Romanian company came to Italy to propose its services while maintaining Romanian law, it could find itself in an unfair position over indigenous companies. Senator Gasparri first made the example of pizzerias. There are a number of contributions, social security benefits for employees, requirements and salaries. In 2004 Bolkestein returned to Holland because they changed Parliament and the Commission. The new Parliament put back on that draft to significantly amend it. The principle of the country of origin disappeared and established that it was not necessary to interfere with countries that guaranteed greater social security, working conditions and discreet employment. The proposal of MEP Evelyne Gebhardt was approved, and perhaps the law should bear her name. It was a compromise between the liberals, who had the freedom to operate throughout Europe with the fall of borders, and the socialists, who saw workers and employees of each state protected from the risk of downward competition by foreign operators. In my opinion, they were both great fools. It seemed like a balanced solution, but certainly some categories and some states suffered more the impact of the novelty and, among these States, surely there was and there is Italy, with its traditions, economy and national culture. Italy is the country where small is beautiful; it is also - I would like to say - the country of bell towers and guilds. The term guilds is not always meant in the negative sense, if the transfer of work from father to son is considered a positive fact. It has been noted that certain categories in Italy are particularly anxious to open up to Europe because of the small size of the family business, which makes it unsuitable to compete and by nature very vulnerable. Taxi drivers, seafarers, streetwalkers and many others are still afraid of having to compete on licenses with larger companies with capital and skills. What effect will this bill have on the economy? Will we have an effect on GDP? Will it have a real effect on citizens, taxpayers and consumers? Above all, what positive thinking can producers have? Producing is not enough because clearly you also have to sell. How many points of GDP do we get back? Are we talking about unity or do we stick to decimals? How many new recruits are there going to be? As far as opening up the markets is concerned, if we do it alone, we continue to be plundered. There are companies that close and relocate. I did not quite understand what these liberalisations are for: perhaps it would have been better to deal with the cut-off of the tax wedge. Let us always stop talking about a cut of the wedge of 0.1 or 0.2 per cent, which shows nothing but our inability to put our hands on the issue of taxes. Sometimes PD and government are a bit like the moon, living in reflected light. Even the wolf howls to the moon and how many poems and writings have been dedicated to it! The problem is that, however, like the moon you live in reflected light and when you put the League in the middle you go into eclipse and go back to being politically dark. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-816.ana.u47	Senator Mazzoni is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-816.ana.u48	Mr President, I believe that the question from which to start is how much this measure on competition really affects the "knits" that harness the markets in Italy. The markets involved are in fact many: insurance, communications, postal services, energy, banking services, professional services, health services. The measure, therefore, affects a number of sectors that are really crucial to the economic system, moving on a very broad front. This draft competition law was - let us say this - tempered by Parliament with respect to the original text of the Government with regard to precisely liberalization. We all realize how difficult it is to draw up such a law and how complicated it is to combine the legitimate expectations of consumers and the quality of services, with the needs of producers and those who provide such services. That is precisely why the revision of the text should have taken place in the Commission and not through yet another major amendment and yet another confidence. This is because there are several aspects of the measure which should have been updated and which deserved careful consideration. The text was born in 2015, many months ago, and the picture in which it will now be dropped has therefore changed considerably, as the dynamics of society and the economy in this historical moment are growing continuously and in an exponential way. The expectations regarding the draft law in question are many and varied: from the abolition of persistent monopolies to a different regulation of certain economic sectors, to the cancellation of current restrictions on free economic initiative, with benefits on production and consumption. Here I want to highlight another fundamental point, which perhaps has been forgotten: in the near future the Authority will present a new report on competition, which could frustrate some of the work done so far, since the text of the Government is dated 3 April 2015. To this we must add that some of the rules laid down in the draft law have been incorporated into other provisions and that, because of the long process, due not to Parliament's delays, but above all to the conflicts within the majority, certain deadlines laid down in the text are obviously no longer practicable. The subject of liberalization is certainly crucial, but - as the rapporteurs themselves have pointed out - liberalization is not the solution of all the problems in order to recover a horizon of growth, a perspective of development and greater competition, which must aim to put in competition equal economic models, in order to determine a better level of access for citizens, at the lowest possible cost. However, it does not seem to me that we are going in this direction. Let me give an example: twelve consumer associations have pointed out that the concentration of the retail market in a few vertically integrated operators, rather than producing more competition will result in the consolidation of a substantially monopolistic situation. Many decisive issues for competition remain excluded from this measure: ports, the web, railways, telecommunications, motorway concessions, supplementary insurance and local public services. On this latter point, a very important absence concerns the opening up of local public services, from transport to waste management, to competition through the introduction of tendering mechanisms. The retreat accomplished renouncing to open the industrial and service activities in the harbour areas to contests, leaving a dual role of referee and competitor to the harbour authorities, is from this point of view meaningful. Local public services ended a few months ago in the spotlight as part of the spending review, showing ample scope for improving efficiency and reducing costs. It was to be expected that the opportunity would be taken to give citizens efficient services and to reduce the costs of the public hand. Analogous absence is noted for railway services, where even some form of competition has started for the high speed, with benefits on the prices that all citizens have been able to observe, but it is still a rough road and to be cleared of further obstacles. Network separation, regulatory accounting, non-discriminatory access, are steps that still require a complex and coherent intervention that cannot find space in the annual competition law, but should at least have been set by it. Another area on which Parliament intervened by changing government policy is energy policy. A change in the protected market was foreseen on energy, the one through which the single buyer buys energy to sell it to a certain number of citizens. Well, listening to a number of subjects, including the relevant Authority, we have seen a series of studies carried out in our examination, from which it has emerged that the free market in the energy sector does not always mean less price; indeed, many times we have seen that we even had a better price in the protected market rather than in the free market. Therefore, we have tried to create the conditions, from now on to 2018, for certain distortions to be corrected before, if necessary, the abolition of the protected market. Graduality in time of these conditions should enable us to determine whether these conditions will occur. If this does not happen, Parliament will once again be called upon to legislate because the legislation will have to be extended for the time set by the Government, and then confirmed by the Parliament, to 2018. The risk, however, is that the service will continue to be carried out at very high prices, specifically to encourage families to choose a new supplier in the free market, a risk on which we will have to watch closely. Another of the arguments that has occupied most of the hearings and a large part of this text is insurance. A series of measures, especially parliamentary amendments, were trying to bring back some equity in a country today split in two in the relationship insurance companies-citizens, regarding the cost of the policy. A series of changes have been introduced to the text, through the installation of the black box, which allows citizens-virtuous users of the Centre-South, to arrive also, through a medium-time path, to have an average policy, as in the rest of the other Italian regions. This is certainly an act of justice that had to be done towards the South, but it was certainly also an act of modernity, thanks to a series of mechanisms that have affected the evaluation of injuries and damage and, above all, a submerged world that speculated on the situation. It has certainly been done to rationalise the sector, which will only bring benefits to businesses, but also to citizens, and the case here regarding policies for the citizens of the South indicates this. Another positive point is the rationalization of the fuel network. Finally, after so many years, we are going to rationalise the fuel network sector in the city which, within a couple of years, should be rationalised so as to avoid further problems. In conclusion, Mr President, once again there has been a lack of courage to intervene in depth to protect real competition and, above all, to protect citizens at the very moment when, opening up the markets, they run the risk of being in a weaker position. That is why our vote can only be against.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-816.ana.u49	We greet a delegation of students and teachers of the Istituto comprensivo "Serrastretta-Decolla" of Serrastretta, in the province of Catanzaro, who are following our works. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-816.ana.u50	Senator Buccarella is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-816.ana.u51	Mr President, having to talk about the festival of missed opportunities, with reference to the bill for competition, I would like to remind you of an opportunity that the Senate has missed, despite the fact that last year there was an initial interest by the rapporteur, Senator Luigi Marino, with informal contacts also with the Government. The extent to which I am about to speak seemed to be able to find a landing place in the text that the House will fire today. Referring to justice - the subject that is closest to me for institutional tasks as well as for previous professional events - we talk about the Doing Business ranking, one of the most treated points. These rankings see Italy constantly in the rear because justice - especially civil justice - is slow and because compensation takes years to be cleared. In fact, the Government and Parliament have recently intervened in a positive way, in order to implement measures aimed at discouraging those who stand trial for the sole purpose of taking time and delaying the payment of a financial sum. I am referring to the changes introduced to Article 1284 of the Civil Code, which determines the measure of legal interest, i.e. the interest that automatically takes place in the event of late payments. That legal interest, as we all know, due to the fall in rates today, in 2017, is 0.1%. Since January 2015 a rule has entered into force that has inserted the fourth paragraph in this article of the Civil Code that establishes: "If the parties have not determined the measure, from the moment when the legal interest rate is proposed judicially" - it refers to another rate, "is equal to that provided for by the special legislation on late payment in commercial transactions". Reference is made to a rate of the European Central Bank (ECB) plus a spread of 8 percentage points. Today the ECB's rate is zero, but it remains that 8% which in the case of late payments acquires a much more affluent nature than the current 0.1% (I remember that until 31 December last this rate was 0.5). Here the thought goes to amendment 14.0.2 (text 2), at my first signature, now jumped with the imposition of the question of trust. This amendment intervened on the claims for damages or restitutions, where the counterparty is an insurance company, establishing that, even for the cases already in place (so not those incardinated from January 2015 onwards, but for the judgments already in place and pending in 2017), the insurance must pay 120 days from the approval of the law. That rate means that today an insurance, rightly from his point of view, for obvious reasons of convenience, delays the payment of a sum perhaps of considerable amount (let's think about fatal claims or compensation for large claims requiring insurance payments for thousands or millions of euros). The accounts that are made by the administrators of those insurance companies mean that it is better to pay an egg and a half tomorrow than the egg today. In fact, with a legal rate of 0.1 percent, it is better to pay in ten years' time, taking advantage of the lengthy trial, because if something I have to pay, in the end I pay almost the same, but in five or six years' time and maybe the citizen or the company that has called me into court will get tired, will not cultivate the judgment, will perhaps arrive at a transactive solution, with sacrifice of the expectations compensations or restitutions. This amendment was aimed at this and I regret that this opportunity has been missed. I would also like to recall the interest, which was certainly sincere, of the rapporteur, Mr Luigi Marino, considering this possibility, that I imagine he may have had negative inputs from the insurance world, sent to his colleagues in this House. It would have been a strongly impacting measure on the litigation pending today in all cases where there is a part (a citizen or a company) that requires compensation and is forced to clash with the inefficiency of civil justice and that sees essentially almost rewarding those who prefer a discouraging approach, those who do not pay, knowing that in the end the delay costs him nothing. At present, there have been pending cases for maybe five or six years, which are on appeal today, going to cassation or maybe still being held in court. Well, this amending proposal has not been included in the text that will be fired, but I reserve the right to promote it as a draft law, if the terms of the legislature allow it, which frankly is a little difficult. But we also want to try to give a signal - I repeat - to those many companies and those citizens who do not resign themselves to the fact that, in order to have justice, at least in the area of compensation for insurance, they are forced to wait for years and years of judgment, plus the mockery of seeing the big insurance companies - in fact this would also be worth for banks or any other company - to take advantage of their position of advantage in order not to pay the due knowing that the interest is very low. The interest would have been 8% if our amendment had been taken into account, approved in the Commission or, in any case, if it had been part of the maxi amendment. This would certainly have removed, for the reasons to which I have referred, a number of pending disputes today. I liked to recall this passage with the hope that, if a legislative initiative were to take place on our part - and I think we will - outside the great magma of the debate on the draft competition law, which is very broad and touches on many subjects, an agreement can be reached between the political forces and a text that is really good for the Italian competitive system. [[Applause from the M5S Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-816.ana.u52	She is registered to speak Senator Montevecchi. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-816.ana.u53	Mr President, unfortunately, I am also obliged to speak in the debate on trust because, although I had made a heartfelt appeal in this House to Rule 68, which is now contained in the maxi amendment, despite the fact that Mr Gentile, as I was intervening last Thursday, had also shown that he shared the concerns and issues I was putting on the table, although he understood the seriousness of the things I was denouncing, I understand that Minister Franceschini, on the other hand, still does not share the same concerns; on the contrary, leftovers of justifications that make chickens laugh, as they say in my Bologna. It is very serious that in the maxi amendment Article 68 has remained, because Minister Franceschini continues on a wrong path, despite the possibility of making corrective measures (these are rumors), which is already a very wrong practice. In fact, if parliamentarians point out that you are wrong and that you are on a superficial path, so as to open up considerable risks for the protection of our artistic heritage of the twentieth century, you should have the greatness of mind and enlightenment to return to your steps, review what you are doing and involve Parliament in such a measure. But for years now Minister Franceschini has been going on with reforms without going through Parliament, and then we are always in the same place. I'll tell you more. What Minister Franceschini is doing is dangerous because when we talk, for example, about the revision of the age limits for the imposition of the constraint and the limit, even lower, to have the authorization to export this good, with the introduction of this new discipline, for the reasons I explained in my last speech, will create disputes, because the new discipline makes ambiguous the interpretation of the norm, for which two norms will coexist. In view of this ambiguity, we can appeal and disputes will be opened. Citizens, what does it mean to open disputes? It means that if the State loses, it will have to pay and, therefore, there is a risk of economic damage to the state's coffers. This is the risk that our magnificent Minister, Mr Franceschini, is making the state run, that is, the possibility of economic disbursements because of a rule that he does not want to review. Evidently, the extensor of the famous amendment, Senator Marcucci, has a great interest in passing this rule and little will interest him when the correctives arrive. So - I repeat - there is a risk of considerable economic damage. What's the other big risk? Probably there will be a demand for the constraints already imposed on certain works of art and therefore there will be an even greater risk that part of our heritage of the twentieth century will take the way abroad, in great simplicity. The principle of self-certification has also been applied to the world of the art market and will change the procedure that art merchants will have to follow for objects with an economic value. What a horror to compare the cultural value of an object to an economic value! In this way we also bring economic value into the evaluation of the cultural value of an artistic object belonging to our historical, literary and archaeological heritage. With reference to objects with a value of less than 13,500 euros, the art dealer will not have to submit them to the Export Office, being able to limit himself to compile a telematic list that can be consulted by the superintendent. We know that the superintendence is understaffed and the superintendent is already overworked and has been depowered at the highest level by all the measures launched in this legislature. Evidently, some superintendent dared to spite former Prime Minister Renzi, who then undertook a crusade against superintendence, as if they were the absolute evil in this country. As I said, the superintendent, already overwhelmed with work, will also have to take the trouble of going to consult spontaneously, one time, the lists of art merchants and ask, if ever, for the vision of some object. If this is not the case, art objects will quietly take the way of foreign affairs. That is what will happen as a result of the provision contained in the maxi amendment. So go ahead with the wagons. Minister Franceschini says that thanks to the measure under consideration Italy aligns with Europe, but forgets that in Italy Article 30 of the Constitutional Treaty of the European Union is still in force, which, in order to comply with the obligation to protect the artistic heritage, removes from the rules of free movement objects that have a historical and archaeological cultural interest for a given country. What are we talking about then? What are we going to do if we do nothing but observe a rule that is still in force? In my view, there is more to this measure: they give favours without serious reasoning on a subject. Today I am here to support a position and a line of thought and to point out concerns that are not only ours, as advanced also by experts and associations that for years have dealt with the protection of our artistic heritage. The point is not that we are retrograde or do not want to talk about the issue, but the subject deserves to be dealt with in a proper way in Parliament and not with a cowardly amendment tabled by a senator within such a heterogeneous measure. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] The cowardice is double, because even those Members of Parliament, like myself, of the 5 Star Movement, who wanted to intervene on that amendment - and they did so by tabling amendments in this House - have been mutilated by the imposition of the question of trust in their parliamentary prerogative. Everything will go to the House, to tarallucci and wine. Who knows what the procedure of this provision will be in the House and whether it will be given the power to intervene? Mr Franceschini, if he had been a serious minister - and I hope he will soon be no longer a minister, because at last the citizens will be able to express their preferences and will return to vote, if Providence wants - he would have considered the export offices, how to improve procedures and controls, how to make certain procedures efficient, sure, but with the right discernment, not opening the motorway to everything. This Minister has shown himself to be unserious during this parliamentary term. I have a veil from my colleague Mr Bottici, who rightly reminds me that the extensor of the famous amendment, Senator Marcucci, is also a member of the UNESCO Cooperation Group, representative for the Senate. And good Marcucci! [[Applause from the M5S Group]] As a member of UNESCO Cooperation he makes a nice amendment of this kind: congratulations! This gives us the measure of merit that certain members of certain important Commissions have. I conclude by saying that the battle does not end here. We will seek all necessary measures to remedy this shame. This is a shame that will weigh on the Minister and we will always remind him. I hope that, in the space of time between today and when another useful measure will come in order to put corrective measures, the Minister will make a good examination of conscience, listen and do, as the Constitution requires him to do in Article 9, to protect our artistic heritage, not to sell it out and to do a favour only to the merchants of art. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-816.ana.u54	Senator Mandelli is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-816.ana.u55	Mr President, I would like to make a few comments in this general debate on trust. What is the reason for the question of trust? This is the case when a measure must come into force, for whatever reason, which I do not want to investigate at this time. We are faced with a measure which has been going on for a few weeks (I say it with an ironic note), which therefore does not have an urgent reasoning to carry on, does not need to bring a fast result. There is, therefore, indeed a feeling of powerlessness in this Parliament in the face of a measure which cannot be declared urgent and which required clear changes. We all, in Forza Italia first, had given the willingness to return to the Commission to resolve certain problems and to correct rules which were no longer current than the changes which have occurred in the year since the Commission's approval. There was the real possibility of delivering a good product to the country, which certainly deserves more than a confidence on a topic that has repercussions on everyday life; I think it really deserved that each of us could carry out this long journey, to deliver to the House a measure more guaranteed and more aligned with the needs. There remain the themes that we wanted to touch these days and that had found a convergence that could allow us, indeed, to give a good product to this country. I would therefore like to touch on the points that leave us appalled: the theme of taxis, which was reminiscent of my colleague Gasparri. We warned you and told you things like this can't work out. In the face of your inability to fix things, we will see what happens; the question is what will happen to the House: are we going to go on like this or are we going to put our hands on the issues raised in this debate on the maxi amendment? The issue of energy has still been suspended, while the issue of the liberalisation of the professions is still looking for an author. With regard to pharmacies, we had asked for a change in relation to the possibility of capital companies entering the ownership structure from 20 to 15 percent, to 10 percent, and this has also remained unchanged. It is regrettable, because there is no urgency to approve the measure and because we share some issues, that we have not taken the opportunity to return to the Commission to deliver a good product. The desire to put confidence in a measure on which there is no urgency and on which the debate and analysis by the Commission cannot be speeded up is unjustified and incomprehensible. The situation remains critical also in the budget committee, because we have examined the maxi amendment by comparing it with the technical report and we have noticed some discrepancies. I take the example of paragraph 192, in the update given by the technical report, with which 500,000 euros are allocated from the year 2018, while in the maxi amendment we talk about charges related to the implementation of the management for 500,000 euros from 2017. If you have said in asking for confidence that the coverages would only be updated, we want to see whether these updates have been taken into account, because we do not see this hypothesis at the first quick survey of the Budget Commission. Of course, colleagues are moving forward in the Commission in the analysis of the text and will find a coherent situation, but at first glance there is a difference between the two forecasts of the technical report and the maxi amendment that are obvious - some would say - ictu oculi. We remain in a situation of undefined times compared to changes that are desired by Parliament, shared in the Commission. And I have to say that once again, even in the final speech of the two rapporteurs, there has been a great desire to do so quickly and return to the Commission to adjust the measure, but you have not listened to us. This is a missed opportunity for the country and the government. It is a missed opportunity to make sure that, instead of a muscular clash, we can really get to approve a measure that is in favour of the citizens and does not leave instead situations of misunderstanding that will certainly lead in the next few days to controversy and clashes, and I hope not to the paralysis of the country, as someone recalled in an intervention at the beginning of the debate, for the concern of some regarding what is contained in the maxi amendment. Basically, therefore, instead of arriving - as would have been possible - at a measure that does something good, we will have a measure that will leave everyone with a dry mouth and a country that will certainly question the need for liberalisations that, instead of being shared by the country, become only an opportunity of confrontation in Parliament. [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII and Senator D'Ambrosio Lettieri.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-816.ana.u56	I declare closed the debate on the question of trust posed by the Government. I give the floor to the President of the 5th Commission, Senator Tonini, to report to the House on the Commission's work in relation to amendment 1,800, on which the question of trust has been raised.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-816.ana.u57	Mr President, the 5th Commission met to examine the maxi amendment - as is now the practice of the Senate - for a verification, on the one hand, of the congruence of the text of the maxi amendment with the text approved by the Commission and, on the other hand, of the cover profiles. In this connection, Mr President, allow me first of all to propose to you two issues which concern our work. The first is the question of the contemporaneity between the sitting of the Commission and the continuation of the work of the Assembly. In the past I seem to recall - and the memory of my colleagues from the 5th Commission goes in the same direction - that there was good practice of suspending the work of this House until the 5th Commission had completed its examination. Today we found ourselves - for example - in the little embarrassment of the Vice-President of the Mandelli Commission, who had to come to this House to make his speech as foreseen in the timetable, while he should have been present in the Commission too to attend the sitting. So, on behalf of my colleagues in the 5th Commission, I would ask the Presidency to pay more attention to this point, because otherwise it puts us in some kind of conflict between two duties: that of being present in this House and the duty to participate in an important session of the Commission. The second request is addressed to the Government: in order to facilitate the examination of major amendments that are often very full-bodied, all the more so when the Government itself, at the mouth of the Minister for relations with Parliament - as it has happened today - points out that there are changes, it would be appropriate for the text of the maxi amendment to show them graphically, in order to allow an examination, which must necessarily be rapid, by the 5th most linear and simple. Having said that, of course, our examination has focused primarily on the technical report - as we always do - which is the thread of Arianna that we follow to evaluate the texts from the point of view of the Budget Commission. Well, Senator Azzollini's keen eye - and trained for a long time in this work - has noted an incongruity with the last paragraph of the technical report, which covers paragraphs from 189 to 193. I quote the phrase in which it is said that: The costs associated with the implementation and operation of the above-mentioned system, amounting to EUR 500,000 per year from 2017, shall be covered by the partial use of the provision... So, we're talking about 500,000 a year from 2017. The text of the maxi amendment, on the other hand, both to paragraph 191 and to paragraph 192 says that the expenditure of 500 000 euros per year is authorised from 2018. And this is repeated twice. So there is an inconsistency as to the effect of the coverage between the technical relationship and the legal text. We have checked, albeit quickly, that this is the only incongruity, or at least what we have observed. A live verification has been made in the presence of the representative of the Government, Deputy Minister Morando - if he considers it, he can speak directly - with the Accountant, who has specified that it is a material error. So, with this assumption, that is, that it is a material error, our opinion is of no obstacle to the cover profiles.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-816.ana.u58	With regard to the issue of committees, we will discuss this at the Conference of the Leaders at the next meeting. He asked Deputy Minister Morando to intervene. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-816.ana.u59	Mr President, I would like to say that the incongruity detected by the Budget Commission does indeed exist between the text of the maxi amendment and the technical report. The text is correct, while the technical report contains an error. In the middle of the last page of the technical report, the one before the boiling of the General Accounting Office of the State, reads 500,000 euros annually from 2017. It is understood that that 2017 must be corrected with 2018. Of course, the error did not cause a problem of cover-up, in the sense that the text is correct, and in any case it is money in the three-year budget. If the text had ever contained a reference to 2017, of course this would have been unnecessary coverage, and therefore inconsistent and incorrect. It is therefore understood that the report should be amended by writing instead of "2017" on that page, "2018".
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-816.ana.u60	We note this, Deputy Minister Morando, with the importance that the words spoken must have for the purposes of our work. I suspend the sitting, which will resume with explanations of vote at 3 p.m. (The sitting was suspended at 12.54 p.m. and resumed at 15.01 p.m.) Let's resume our work.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-816.ana.u61	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-816.ana.u62	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-816.ana.u63	COUNCIL (LN-Aut). Madam President, the draft competition law on which the issue of trust has been raised - as we have already said in previous speeches - is a measure inspired by the idea of regulating certain sectors and activities of our citizens, with the conviction that we are a bit on the side of consumers and a bit on the side of producers and service providers. It is a rather ambitious and positive objective to finally resolve some serious problems. Liberalizations are very often considered necessary - probably even this Government has done so - as useful strategies to get out of the recession. Therefore, in addition to following the indications of the Antitrust and the European directives, this measure today sells a recipe to get out of the crisis. It doesn't matter, however, if the article of the bill doesn't always have solid foundations, determined by technical issues, and is often linked to the great lobbies, large groups and the immemorial political ideology that sometimes pervades us. It would then be thought that, according to the political color that characterizes the Government, the law n. 99 of 2009 is drawn up in such a way that it fits, like a dress, on those who govern at that time. The introduction of greater competition within a system can disrupt the various lobby and trusts, all in order to ensure that the sole producers of a given service are on the market to deal with consumer rights: this would probably be the objective. A competitive regime is favourable to all, to consumers and producers, who would have everything to gain from adjusting their supply and competitiveness. Well, Madam President, I think that we have failed to communicate; or rather, all those who have expressed in various ways in the last month in the Capital and have been shocked in these days have done so without knowing that losing their work or what they have built over the years would have been only the beginning of their new well-being and a new well-being. We've got the wrong communication. We apologize if we have not been able to convey these feelings. Many bad Samaritans today recommend free trade and free market policies as the panacea of all evils. Just about what this panacea should solve, the World Bank, on the occasion of its study on the ease of doing business, did some counting on our country. Of 183 countries, Madam President, we are eighty-seven as regards the ability to do business; we are ninety-six in the speed of issuing building permits; we are ninety-nine in the connection of electricity networks; we are ninety-eightth in terms of access to credit and we certainly do not shine for the times of opening up activities or businesses - there would be another - and we are one hundred and thirty-fourth in terms of the ease of paying taxes; We spend two hundred and eighty-five hours a year in tax obligations. Let us liberalise yes, but let us liberalise the bureaucracy and, before even bringing the parliamentary assemblies to talk about liberalization, perhaps more attention should have been paid to the deburocratization of the country. We have torn our clothes a bit over the last few months and in the Commission there has been a confrontation, for the truth never hard but frank, both with the Government and with the rapporteurs. There has been talk of liberalization, and notaries, lawyers, pharmacies, pension funds, post offices, hotels, car insurance, fuel distributors, the end of the protected market for energy, telephony, the register of oppositions, the single card for the reimbursement of transport services, engineers, rickshaws, etc. have been touched on. We have also had the patience - and I am addressing the representative of the Government - to read everything and to put our Group in a position to work for the good of a measure, which perhaps had potential, but which we have not been able to express in the last two years: our amendments and our agendas all went in the direction of improving a text which, perhaps, was born with good ideas, but which has come crippled by a number of considerations, which probably go beyond the political idea of putting the citizen in a position to benefit from services and goods. In my general discussion I had invited the Government and the majority to stand on the other side of the table when drafting legislation: perhaps in this way you could put the legislator in a position to be absolutely serene in judging what is being done. Perhaps failure to combine responsibility and power does not always make us do things to the best. If we had to answer for the more than 70 articles contained in the liberalization measure, going to see what the final result will be in a year and having to pay out of our pocket the damages that the measure will probably cause, I think that, before approval and still use the question of trust to approve it, we would certainly be very careful. I therefore believe that my Group has really done some work in evaluating very carefully different aspects of the draft law under consideration, which has not always been far-sighted and which at times, indeed, seemed even antiliberal to us. We have referred to the ruin of the Bolkestein directive in relation to many activities that have characterized and constituted a very important backbone within the country. We have dealt with taxi drivers, the issue of their work, bathing and activities that seem absolutely marginal compared to an industrial complex in our country. We have had no other capacity than to ask why we have not been able to manage waste or reform the school seriously in recent years or to put our citizens in a position to compete in Europe. We all continue to embark - not on immigration, but on the economic side - but we have not had the capacity to be effective within a European panorama that continues to strangle our economy. With Minister Calenda there was even talk of economy 4.0. I'm still at 2.0. I have skipped the 3.0 and I find myself at 4.0 without having understood what the benefits are. Next time, if Mr Calenda is present in this House, I will try to ask why we will get to the 5.0 economy without having any kind of benefit. The question I was talking about earlier, the panacea of all evils, is still standing still, which is welcome. I have always been opposed to trust, but this time you have placed it and it is fine, because at least we will not have the responsibility of not having succeeded in affecting a bill that, frankly, sees us absolutely opposed. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-816.ana.u64	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-816.ana.u65	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-816.ana.u66	Granaiola (Art.1-MDP). Madam President, the bill, adopted in the Chamber on 7 October 2015, arrives in the Senate with a macroscopic delay, after 134 hearings, 1,739 amendments and 4 rewordings of the texts. This means that the measure contains very sensitive and important issues on which to reach agreement in the same majority was also very difficult. Almost nine months have passed since the text was approved by the Commission, a period during which many changes took place which would have required a review of the measure in the Commission in order to arrive at a cleaner and more functional, integrated and improved text. Despite the work done in the Commission by majority and opposition, there was no summary that met the expectations, perhaps excessive, of which the measure was charged by consumers and many economic sectors. It has been and still is very difficult to maintain and keep together objectives such as consumer protection and competitiveness between enterprises without demagogy and preconceptions. Before making the explanation of vote in Article 1, I would like to remind you of some issues which seem to me to be very important such as drugs and pharmacies and energy. Article 58 provides for measures to increase competition in pharmaceutical distribution. Now, since the pharmaceutical distribution sector, in view of its peculiarities, is very different from the other market sectors, greater caution would have been required in the development of competition measures in order to prevent the application of this article from having an adverse effect on those pursued by the Government. Fortunately, the Commission of merit has made a modification according to which the companies, including those of capital, whose entry into the exercise of the private pharmacies is sanctioned by paragraph 1 (a) of Article 48, cannot directly or indirectly control more than 20% of the pharmacies existing in the territory of the same Region or Autonomous Province. This arch at least partially creates dominant positions or oligopoly. In addition, it would have been necessary to establish that the pharmacies management companies were registered on a special register and that they had a necessarily majority participation of professional members, i.e. qualified for the exercise of their profession. It has not been clarified, as regards the discipline of incompatibility, whether the activities of intermediation and distribution of the drug are - as it would seem to have become given the formulation of the article referred to in paragraph 2, letter b) - compatible with the participation in the companies referred to in paragraph 1, letter a). This leaves doubts of unconstitutionality also in the light of the judgment of the Constitutional Court No 275 of July 2003. With regard to the possibility of transferring supernumerary pharmacies to municipalities with less than 6,600 inhabitants, it would have been necessary to involve the local authorities concerned in the relevant procedure in order to ensure a fair territorial distribution of pharmacies and the accessibility of all citizens to the services provided. There was also a need to clarify the transfer applications. Unfortunately, there was no overall redesign of the mission of parapharmacies which, ten years after their establishment, saw only minimal signs of opening up to real competition in the market. Thanks to discounts on medicines ranging from 15% to 40%, they have managed to save citizens without burdening the state's coffers. I am thinking of C-side drugs: they belong to this category about 3,800 specialties such as painkillers, anti-inflammatory drugs, antidepressants and some birth control medicines for which there is no reimbursement by the National Health Service, but for which the prescription is necessary - I repeat necessary - for which there is no reimbursement by the National Health Service. For the purchase of these drugs, Italian families spend three billion euros every year: expense that could be considerably reduced allowing the sale in the parapharmacies where it is already obligatory the presence of a pharmacist. In essence, there are two pretexts for non-liberalisation: medical safety and the failure of several pharmacies. While recognizing that it is always necessary to keep in mind the peculiar nature and function of the drug, the first pretext falls because the C-belt drugs can be dispensed only on medical prescription and in the parapharmacies there are professionals who have the same dignity as those present in the traditional pharmacies and there are therefore no serious pharmacists and pharmacists of series B. As for the second pretext, it is true that in the last two years the margins of profit of the pharmacies have been contracted, but this is mainly due to the reduction of expenditure on medicines reimbursed by the National Health Service and the increase in direct distribution, and certainly not to the competition of the parapharmacies. The energy issue is certainly the most full-bodied issue of the measure, the most debated and the one that contains innovations that they have done and make more debate. Among these, the most significant is the one that foresees the cessation from 1 July 2018 of the service of greater protection for the consumers of electricity and the transition to the free market of the final customers, with the consequent full liberalization of the markets of retail sale. What was to be a transitional regime has lasted at least ten years and could not fail to be addressed. Fortunately, the Commission has made a number of improvements to the text that has been fired from the House. But we still need to work to ensure that a liberalisation process is completed that really sees the centre, not the market, but an informed consumer, who must be able to make his own choices in a conscious and cost-effective way. Therefore, the extension of this process to 30 June 2019 is very important. It is also regrettable that a first-signed amendment by Senator Girotto on closed distribution systems has not been accepted, which would allow many private individuals who have built private electricity networks, powered by renewable sources, to sell or donate energy beyond their own needs. It would be a real step forward in that no longer postponed path of rationalization of the distribution of electricity and we hope it will really be followed up on the agenda Valdinosis approved by the Government. This is why, among other things, a petition has already collected more than 30,000 signatures. As regards the criteria for determining the number of notaries, it would have been important to include the statistical progress of the documents received or authenticated in addition to those of the population of the territory and the media. Many others would have been the issues to be addressed: for example, the application of the Bolkestein directive, which should have opened up the markets, extended the supply of goods and services at low prices, and instead totally blocked our equipped bathing system; the street trade in public areas and the whole induced. The non-scheduled transport system, which sees in our country more protagonists, such as the taxi service, Uber, the NCC, did not have to be solved with a delegation, but faced in modern terms and in step with the times. In short, despite the great work done in the Commission on the subject, more could certainly be done, but somewhere it had to begin. For this reason, the Article 1-MDP Group will vote for the confidence on this measure, but strongly asking the Government that this is only the beginning of a path that will necessarily have to be revised, also through the forthcoming competition laws that we hope can be annual, if we really want to trigger that virtuous circle of greater competitiveness and growth that truly protects consumers and businesses. [[Applause from the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and ……]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-816.ana.u67	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-816.ana.u68	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-816.ana.u69	GIOVANARDI (GAL (GS, PPI, M, Id, E-E, MPL, RI)). Madam President, although I am not a member of the Commission, so I have not been able to follow the work specifically and the wording of this measure, I have to say that from the debate - and for this reason the debate in this House always serves - I have been able to draw some conclusions. The first is the absence of ministers. As an old Member of Parliament, I believe that on such matters there must be a time when there is a virtuous relationship between those who have ministerial responsibilities and Parliament. In this case I refer specifically to the Minister of Cultural Heritage and Activities and to the Minister who is interested in productive activities, without taking anything away from the Undersecretary Gentile and his presence. On the other hand, in the history of Italy it has always been so: except for the parenthesis of fascism, in liberal Italy, in Republican Italy, in Italy by De Gasperi, the President of the Council and the Ministers were in the Chamber. The Senate has not been repealed and will continue to exist, so even more so Chamber and Senate should be the place where it fruitfully dialogues. I regret to note, however, that, at a time when important issues are being discussed for the future of the country, the Ministers clearly believe that the relationship with Parliament is something absolutely useless or that it is time lost. I want to say this forcefully because this seems to me to be a real degradation of our parliamentary democracy and, if you will allow me, to degrade the work of all colleagues, by majority and opposition. The second aspect that struck me is a concept that I do not even know whether to define statist, about the great controversy that has arisen, for example from my colleague Montevecchi, about the depreciation and the sale of our cultural heritage. I have heard some of my colleagues talking with a smurf of contempt for art dealers. I remember that the merchants of art were those who, from the Renaissance onwards, made the fortune of the artists, who to paint or to make statues needed clients who bought their works of art, in Italy but also abroad. I say: fortunately there have been the art dealers and fortunately we have a great, huge heritage to protect in its extraordinaryness. It is claimed that the threshold of about 14,000 is too low. Stops the works of exceptional ingenuity of Italian painters of the twentieth century, of the thirties, forty, fifty, sixty that can be precisely an exceptionality (that then the State must buy), the hundreds of medium Italian painters, even large, who had an excellent production, should be sold only in Italy? What is this autarchy? The French, who are very good, have invaded the world with their painters, and it is not that they are better than the Italian ones (even those of the nineteenth century); but our macchiaioli evidently have to stay in Italy, while the French impressionists travel all over the world. But why does Italy have to be an anomaly? Are we a country like Enver Hoxha's Albania? Then I understand the exceptional things that we cannot protect, because it would be different if we were able to best protect what we have (think about the problems of Pompeii and the Uffizi). Gentlemen, even with regard to the field of archaeology, I inform you that in Modena and Sassuolo, already at the time of the Republic and the Empire, there were factories that produced millions and millions of lamps and today there are tens of thousands of them. I inform you that there are tens of thousands of Roman coins, if not hundreds of thousands (I don't know how much there are). Is the goal to fill the storerooms and basements of museums with tens of thousands of skylights, coins and stamps? Yesterday I already said something and denounced something very simple. The State Archives have no means, no resources. I have reported the entire history of the 1939 and 1940 options as well as the agricultural history of South Tyrol and the entire Trentino-South Tyrol, which is there in thousands and thousands of carpettes. When one made the option, in its bottom or closed farm was drawn the agricultural activity it carried out. It is, therefore, an extraordinary photograph of the agricultural economy of that time. Now I'm in a warehouse in Rome, in the exterminated shelves, where they'll stay until the rats eat them. Then there is the material concerning the First and Second World Wars, the Istrians, the Dalmatians and all matters of relevance of the Ministry of Economy. Then I remember those who had served the Austro-Hungarian Empire in Galicia, then on a different front. This is an extraordinary story. Then there is the whole history of reparations for the so-called Moroccans, when the allied armies went up the Apennines. We are talking about tragic events in our history. I remember World War II again. The material is there, exterminated. There is a complaint that these things will end up in nothing because the Italian State spends 19 million euros just on rent to keep these cards within huge structures. As I said yesterday, the superintendents go to denounce the collectors and traders who in the last century have bought material that the state by law had destined to strip. Tons of cards, letters and postcards were lawfully sold by the Red Cross to do charity and today whoever owns one of those pieces is a potential criminal and is denounced. Carabinieri come home and seize the material; there are trials and complaints. I told Mr Gotor yesterday that it is interesting to see the limit of statism. We have come to say that everything that was sent during the First World War by the fighters at the front (we speak of 5 billion letters and postcards, because 3.5 million were sent a day) is more than fifty years old and therefore cannot be held. In fact, in Cosenza this material was seized. In that case, the reckless collector made a plea and the sentence went to trial. There are 10,000 letters in which basement I don't know. Therefore, I warn the sailors: those who have letters or postcards from their grandfather and great-grandfather and are denounced, not only will they be seized, but they will end up in criminal proceedings for unwise purchase or possession of material that is more than fifty years old. I already said yesterday that out of here there are about twenty auction houses, ten or fifteen magazines and hundreds of philatelic circles, there are studies and hundreds of thousands of collectors who know these things and ask me and you if it is possible that these things happen in Italy. Can we not do better to protect our excellences and our historical and artistic heritage? Or do we get to bulimia? The state must take everything, everything must become state. Evidently at night some overlords embrace these goods by saying that they are their own. But it is not the superintendent's stuff, as it is part of the national heritage that certainly, except for the great excellences, is maintained by those who maybe have letters worth 4, 10 or 15 euros and will treat them well, but also by those who have important collections. In fact, we are talking about a sector with an annual turnover of over 200 million euros, which confronts with export difficulties abroad, especially when you go to see the English, German and French auction catalogues, where everyone sells what they want without any kind of state control. (Follows YOUNG PEOPLE). After that we should say: we are in Europe and I am going to buy there. We are talking about competition, liberalisation and a virtuous mechanism. In this I must say that I am in solidarity with the President of the 7th Commission, who has been attacked by his colleagues in the 5 Star Movement because he has dared to say that for 50 years it has been 70 years. Gentlemen, what are we talking about? We are talking about a concept that, as I said before, I do not even know how to define: it is a mixture between a fascist autarchy brought to excess and a communism of war that neither in Cambodia, where they had no works of art but perhaps the vision was that. It is forbidden for a private person to maintain something that has had a minimal relationship with history and if one day someone entered with an envelope inside a municipality, even if it was thrown away or sent to the Macero, it is still criminally prosecutable. Someone checked how much it costs to send hundreds and hundreds of letters around all of Italy, which are seized in Turin, sent to all the Superintendence why do they have to check? Is it not easier to say that everything in the archives must remain there and everything that has been stolen and stolen from the archives is, rightly, the subject of criminal denunciation? The rest must be respected as a part of the history of our country and applies to archaeology, paintings, sculpture. Fortunately, Madam President, there are still collectors, art lovers, who invest and spend money to maintain a market that is important and to keep our heritage at its best, let us call it greater, because it is that of excellence. We all agree that it must be kept in museums, but exposed in museums, not kept in basements; not with bulimia, but with the public enhancement of this heritage. Unfortunately, the imposition of the question of trust has once again prevented us from healing these situations in this measure. We will not vote for the confidence, hoping, however, that this public complaint will finally lead the ministries responsible to issue the necessary regulations or clarifications. Otherwise the state also falls into the ridiculous, when it starts to prosecute citizens for their hobbies and their passions, the most innocent that there can be, like those of postal history and philatelia.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-816.ana.u70	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-816.ana.u71	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-816.ana.u72	Mr Barani (ALA-SCLP). Madam President, it is my turn to the Undersecretary Gentile, because Minister Calenda, as we were commenting with Senator Serafini, we should have him searched for by "Who has seen him?," because we have never seen him here. If I met him and said goodbye, I wouldn't recognize him. They'd ask me, "Why don't you say hello to a minister?" and I'd say, "And who's ever seen him?" That tells you a lot about what we are approving. The Minister responsible for this bill has never shown up. I would also like to thank Mr Finocchiaro, on behalf of our Group, who tried to replace him today at the Conference of Leaders - you were present, Madam President - and tried to justify yourself, to say that the text is not exactly the one that came out of the Commission. I would like to address the rapporteur, Mr Luigi Marino, who obviously tried to follow the measure fairly seriously in this House and in the Commission over the 10 to 12 months. Mr Finocchiaro had to say that the dates were all missed and that many of the things contained in the draft law approved in the Commission were exceeded, because they took other trains, entered into other laws and therefore we must remove them. She was very embarrassed and she also apologized. This demonstrates - and we point out this - the enormous delay in the measure, which was followed in the Commission by then Minister Guidi and arrives in this House with Minister Calenda. This means that there are rules that were to come into force in 2016 and that are now outdated. These rules and others could be reviewed in the Commission because, despite the delay with which the measure arrives in this House, it would have been preferable to argue again for a few weeks to improve it. It was a proposal that our Group had also made and which unfortunately remained unheard of, while we are faced with yet another maxi amendment by the Government. As for the form, we are struggling with yet another omnibus bill, too full-bodied. Perhaps more targeted action should be envisaged in the future. Hence the first serious contradiction: despite the fact that this is a text that has remained in Parliament for too long, there are not so many major issues that are decisive for the country's competition. Paolo Gentiloni Silveri, President of the Council, is not up to the fundamental issues for the recovery of the country, because this requires capacity but above all courage. Consider ports, the web, railways, telecommunications, motorway concessions, supplementary insurance and local public services. All this time, these very important issues for competition, which other European countries have addressed, should also have been addressed. In fact, the annual competition law was planned in 2009 and will eventually be launched in 2017 with a vote of confidence, when substantial improvements could have been made, and instead the bill does not affect the big issues that were on the table. I repeat: web, railways, telecommunications, motorway concessions, supplementary insurance, local public services. These were the themes. It seems that the aim of the measure is mainly to try to increase the productivity of the country (even if it would have sufficed to cancel the DAC and send Canton to be the head of Cabinet of the Rays and the productivity would be resumed) and it is right, but compressive objective of a bill on competition would have had to be also the search for a positive effect of relapse for the citizens, that they should draw some benefit from the greater competition. This doesn't seem to happen in this bill. With regard to certain particular points of the law, which as a group we want to criticise, it must be noted that the protection of competition must necessarily be balanced with the protection of citizens, particularly the most vulnerable ones. In this regard, the many complaints from civil society on certain points of the measure cannot go unnoticed. In particular, important challenges arise in the energy sector, which involves millions of citizens. In this context, several consumer associations (including ACU, ADOC, Adusbef, Assoutenti, Consumer House, Codes, CTCU, Federconsumeri, Lega Consumenti, Udicon, Unione Nazionale Consumenti) have highlighted the reasons for concern arising from the elimination of the protected energy market. Indeed, as of 1 January 2018, households will be obliged to choose a new operator on the free market. In addition, the free energy market will be even more studded with unfair commercial practices and characterised by a lack of transparency in supply. Almost 20 years after the start of the liberalisation process, there are still 20 million domestic customers who have not moved to the free market, against the nine million who have already done so. The complexity of the bills and the low incidence of the discount on the final price seem to be among the main reasons that complicate and slow down this passage. Ten years have passed since, on 1 July 2007, domestic customers, especially households, were also given the opportunity to choose the free market. Since then, tariffs have increased by 24%, 3.6 cents/kilowattora more, for an additional annual expenditure of 90 euros per family. The Government has set the end of increased protection in mid-2018 to meet the demands of European directives. Consumer representatives also denounce the diabolical fate of millions of protected households (currently 24 million) that on 1 July 2018 will not have chosen the new free market provider, so they will be framed as an empire in the safeguard service and will be applied, as a result, a price of 30% more electricity and gas than the one paid so far in the protected market. Congratulations! Finally, there is no protection for so-called vulnerable customers, for whom the European Commission itself expresses the need for special safeguards. Another critical point concerns the pharmacies sector. In particular, the forecast of the entry of capital into the ownership of pharmacies, which will put at risk the professional independence of the pharmacist, and therefore compliance with the ethical obligations. The President of FOFI Mandelli has had the opportunity to explain it to us in his speech in a wonderful way so that, sharing his criticism, I do not dwell any further. Compared to the difficult employment situation, with the accounts that do not return between the number of subscribers to the faculties of pharmacy and the job prospects offered by the sector, what does the Government want to do? Create countless unemployed? The Federation of Italian Pharmacists has confirmed its opposition to the entry of capital companies in the management of pharmacies for the impact that this can have on the continuity of the service offered up to now to citizens by the network of independent pharmacies. Once there was a firm point: the pharmacist, in fact, to whom the citizen addressed for his health protection. Finally, nothing is decided on C-belt medications. Similar criticism comes from the reform of the profession of lawyer. The measure contradicts the precept of the law of reform of the law that excluded the shareholders of capital from professional companies, necessarily limited to professionals only. The legislation, which cannot be exempted, complies with the principle of independence of the exercise of assistance and defence in the process (civil, criminal, administrative and tax). To conclude, Madam President, the subjects covered by the measure, which are finally before the House today, are many and very heterogeneous, but, beyond the examples mentioned, there are quite a number of the problems contained in it. More generally, therefore, although some interventions are appreciable, more courage was needed to intervene to protect competition and at the same time more attention was needed in the protection of citizens at the very moment when, opening up markets, the risk is to be in a weaker position. For all these reasons, the Ala-Scelta Civic Group will vote against confidence in this measure. On the basis of Don Abbondio Manzoni, courage, if one does not have it, cannot give it, and this is a government that has no courage. [[Applause from Senator Zuffada.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-816.ana.u73	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-816.ana.u74	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-816.ana.u75	BERGER (Aut (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT)-PSI-MAIE). Madam President, first of all, allow me to welcome Mr Di Biagio, who, even with crutches, returned to the Chamber after an accident. We're glad you're back here. [[Applause]] Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, Mr Secretary-General, the major amendment is an assumption of the responsibility of the Commission, which, while it has the merit of speeding up a measure which was to have a different path, leaves on the table a whole series of issues which, with a punctual, surgical passage - I would say - of the Commission, could have been resolved. As a Group for Autonomies- PSI-MAIE we note the decision of the Government; however, the unresolved points will certainly have to be addressed already in the coming weeks with great speed. It is a commitment that we request from the Government, which on the other hand has announced that it wants to proceed to a further measure. In general discussion I have already spoken of the need to extend the entry into force of the functional unbundling for energy companies from 30 June, so close, to 31 December, but also and above all of the theme related to the bilingualism of the notaries of the Autonomous Province of Bolzano, respecting the rights of the linguistic minority, as well as the terms for incentives for renewables. And here, Mr. Undersecretary, I still have to announce the government's activity. It is not so acceptable for a Minister to accept an amendment and then, when the Minister has changed, the new Minister withdraws it; so the text remains not the one desired by the Commission. That is why I ask you, even with the deadlines now set in the maxi amendment, to make the amendment tabled in the Commission ineffective, that there should be quick and quick action here, because there is one area that needs it. I would also like to stress with great firmness a subject on which a couple of speeches have already been made in this House today, on which we have presented an agenda in the Commission and there has also been a specific speech of mine: I am referring to the issue of rural pharmacies. For rural pharmacies there is a need for an update of qualifications, rankings and billing amounts, which have never been adjusted by the ISTAT indices since 1996. In the Commission, the Government has made a commitment to provide for the stability law, because we are talking about the survival of a suburban service that is necessary and absolutely essential. The liberalisation of the market unfortunately leaves behind the path of its implementation wounded and dead, i.e. damaged companies and hundreds of traditional family businesses that have been closed down. These are mainly peripheral areas. That is why I think that action should be taken, including an initiative which has been in the Commission for a long time, on closing times, because, if we do not intervene, the peripheral areas will lose essential services and will suffer continuous depopulation. Liberalization has the winners, and these are the big ones, but small and very small family businesses, especially in the suburbs, are the ones that lose this battle. That is why I say that the measure as a whole can be considered positive. As I said this morning, I see the glass half full and not half empty. Its fruits will be seen over time, provided that there is no lack of further moments of intervention that put the country's competitiveness at the centre, a competitiveness that looks at the global market and puts small and medium-sized enterprises at the centre, protecting them and enhancing them, especially through less bureaucracy, simpler rules and an actualization of the rules for those sectors that in recent years have experienced epochal changes. They are the main prerequisite for the recovery and to inaugurate again an economic and development season of our country. I shall conclude, Mr President, by thanking again the President of the Commission, Senator Mucchetti, the rapporteurs, Senators Tomaselli and Marino, and the Undersecretary Antonio Gentile, who in the Commission gave us the opportunity to carry out flexible, open and collegial work, where there was no difference between the majority and the minority in the discussion of the amendments and in their acceptance. I therefore thank you for your work in the Commission and I therefore declare the Group for the Independents of the PSI-MAIE Group's vote in favour. [[Applause from the Aut Group (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT) - PSI-MAIE.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-816.ana.u76	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-816.ana.u77	Senator Di Biagio, I welcome you. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-816.ana.u78	DI BIAGIO (AP-CpE). Madam President, thank you. Benrivisti. Madam President, kind Secretary, we could say that we come to the final vote on the annual draft law for the market and competition, at least for this reading, with eight years of delay. Yes, because this legislative instrument - it should be remembered - has been introduced by Law No 99 of 2009 which regulates the adoption of the annual law for the market and competition in Article 47, in order to remove regulatory obstacles, of a regulatory or administrative nature, to the opening of markets, and to promote the development of competition and to ensure the protection of consumers. It is therefore legitimate to question and verify whether these years of gestation have been useful, in order to dismiss a text that would meet the objectives and purposes indicated in the first article of the law itself; if truly this law is able to offer those legislative and economic instruments, in the matter of liberalization and competition, deemed necessary in order to increase and restart the economic growth of our country. However, the answer to this question must necessarily be preceded by an analysis of the procedure that the measure had before arriving here. As Senator Luigi Marino recalled in his valuable report, the measure came out of the Council of Ministers with 32 articles; while the text approved by the House was 52 articles and the text came out of the 10a The Commission counts 75. This simple and schematic numerical indication could have a double reading. On the one hand, there are those who, even in the debate that has developed in this House, think that the MISE initiative measure has been modified to the point of emptying the text. I believe that this is an incorrect or, in any case, overly ingenerous reading. Although something I want to say about it. In my opinion, however, those numbers testify that there has been intense and certainly fruitful parliamentary work on the text issued by the Government, which always represents added value. And I say this as Vice-President of the Industry Commission, having had the opportunity to follow closely the course of the measure, and to contribute together with colleagues of majority and opposition to improving this text. In this regard, allow me to express my sincere thanks and appreciation to the two rapporteurs, the Senators Luigi Marino and Tomaselli, who have been able to convey with sensitivity and balance the various indications from all the groups in this Parliament. Thanks to their mediation with the Government, 142 amendments were approved. Returning to the critical reading I mentioned earlier, it must be noted that perhaps too much has been claimed by this law. Too many subjects addressed, too sensitive some issues to be the subject of partial and non-organic interventions. Perhaps this has reduced the effectiveness, compared to the initial intentions, and has penalized the achievement of the pre-set results. Probably the same parliamentary times were incompatible with an annual measure, which provided for precise deadlines and which had to be updated in the drafting of the maxi amendment. On this point, allow me to point out that perhaps a brief return to the Commission would have been more appropriate in order to revise the text in that place: a passage which would not have led to any delay, but which would have allowed an update of the text more in line with what the Commission has approved. I would like to take the example of Article 39 of the original text of the annual draft law for the market and competition which had incorporated the amendment of the rapporteurs approved in the Commission on this subject, which covers incentives. In the drafting phase of the maxi amendment, on which confidence will be placed, and more precisely to paragraph 91, the starting date has been changed in such a way that the ratio underlying the amendment is dropped, making it ineffective, since at that point many plants have already produced many of the incentives to be returned. It is a pity, a missed opportunity and it will create many problems for the renewables sector. Let us go back to the parliamentary times of which we said: the process began on 28 April 2015 in the Chamber of Deputies, where it was approved at first reading, as well as in the Senate it arrived in the Chamber nine months after the approval in the Commission. Of course, even unplanned events have affected the process, such as the exchange rate at the summit of the Ministry of Economic Development, but to come to the conclusion that this bill - as I hope it will be approved - has totally disappointed expectations and objectives seems to me to be out of the question. Perhaps the supporters of extreme liberalism have remained to be disappointed and I would say almost dogmatic, those who would have liked privatisations and liberalisations regardless, without going to evaluate the actual consequences on the areas of intervention. This, I believe, is the basic misunderstanding: competition is not synonymous with liberalization of the market tout court. Competition, in the sense of this measure, means regulating the market in such a way as to guarantee the protection and interest of consumers: this is our main objective. The centre must not be the market but the consumer. It means giving the market more slender rules in line with European legislation, but always bearing in mind the consumer's interest in being able to choose, in a more open market, but between products that increase in quality. If we therefore read the measure that we are about to adopt today in this light, then we will only be able to have a positive judgment. Just think of the novelties introduced in the field of insurance, which will lead on the one hand to a decrease in rates and, on the other hand, to the reduction until the elimination of the age-old problem of frauds on road accidents. Or, just think of the complex system of the energy market, which for ten years was regulated by transitional legislation, and which now opens up to a real liberalisation of the retail markets: a shift to the free energy market that at the same time guarantees more information on supply and guarantee for the weak and the end user. I would also like to add that the debate in the Commission has also been useful for the discussion with the Government on issues felt by the entrepreneurial fabric of our country. As in the case of the agenda I shared with my colleagues from the majority and accepted by the Government, in the matter of defining procedures aimed at anticipating the amounts due to energy production companies from renewable sources in the case of competitive procedures. These measures will have a positive impact on activities related to renewable energy production and in general on the economy, in a situation where entrepreneurs have very serious difficulties in accessing credit. No doubt this first competition law, like all the first times, has brought with it imperfections to treasure, but judgment can only be positive. These are the reasons for me to say that this is an important and fundamental law, whose approval will bring unmistakable benefits to consumers and businesses. I repeat that this is a first step in the right direction, which has finally been taken eight years after the establishment of this instrument and this is also a fact that must be ascribed as the merit of this Government. For these reasons, I am voting in favour of my Group - Centristi per l'Europa. [[Applause from the AP-CpE Group and the Senators Susta and Zanda.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-816.ana.u79	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-816.ana.u80	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-816.ana.u81	GIROTTO (M5S). Madam President, citizens, colleagues, what we are discussing is an extremely important measure. However, we have absolutely no time, from a quantitative and qualitative point of view, to deal with it in the Commission. Here in this House we could have had the opportunity to improve it, to deal with and resolve certain aspects, which could have made the country grow. We were ready since August last year, but problems within the majority, work in progress within it, linked first to the constitutional referendum and then to the known separation to the primaries, obviously did not allow it. Once again we are dealing with a government that closes the possibility of a dialogue to improve the provision and for this it assumes responsibility. My colleagues have already talked about many aspects in various areas, from insurance, cultural goods and medicines. In the few minutes that I have available, I will therefore focus on the matter on which I have focused my most attention, that of energy. We have made constructive proposals, but the Government has made them fall into the void, because they would really have opened the energy market to a real liberalisation and undermined a system that is still too centralized and oligopolistic, with regard to sale and distribution, with a production still too much based on fossil sources. Yet we have asked for very simple things, that is, to give everyone, simply, the possibility of self-producing, self-using and selling energy from renewable sources. This is something that seems to be taken for granted, and the Community directives not only allow it, but they even want it. Instead, we disapply Community legislation and ban this basic principle of energy democracy. This involves the fact that we are hindering the energy model of the future, which is decentralised, renewable and efficient and we worsen the situation regarding the health, the environment and the economy of the country. In fact, let us remember that this new energy model would lead to the creation of tens and tens of thousands of jobs, which we have lost because of this "fossil" government, which has turned us back on renewable sources and energy efficiency. We are therefore throwing the child with dirty water, because we had reached a position of technological leadership, which with nails and teeth we are still trying to maintain. You are doing everything, however, to ensure that Italy loses this technological leadership and in this world doing so means losing everything and becoming slaves and driving other economies. This morning Mr Tomaselli was open to these issues, namely closed distribution systems, but these openings are not credible, because they are the justifications we have been listening to since July last year. It has been almost a year and you cannot keep telling me that I am right, but without voting on what I propose, because you want to do something better. If my daughter gives me a good suggestion, I don't tell her she's right, but since I'm the dad, you do as I say, even if it's wrong. Do you say this to your children, that you do as you say, even if you are wrong? That's what you've been telling me since July. If you really wanted to agree with me, you had to vote on my amendment and then, being the majority, you would have had all the time and the power to make your desired new decree-law on energy. Instead you have hindered this liberalisation and you will proceed with the repeal of the protected market (24 million users and 20% of consumption) with the justification that you have to release a market, which is already such because everyone can choose a new supplier for ten years. I want to explain to the citizens that at the moment the protected market is managed by a single buyer, which is a large non-profit public purchasing group that brings together 24 million users, buys wholesale and saves money. That's what we don't say about the 5 Star Movement, but the Electricity and Gas Authority, which has monitored and declared that over the last fifteen years - look a bit - this market has saved the Italians about 20% of the cost of energy. By restricting this market you force Italians to choose a new supplier on the free market, which will cost more, or, if they do not choose, they will end up in the safeguard market, which will cost more. It will be a really nice choice between paying more knowingly or paying more unknowingly. Beautiful choice. The majority of consumers will probably not choose because they are unaware of this and I would like to go back to what Mr Tomaselli wanted this morning, which was hoping for an increase in skills. Of course, this is desirable and we would all like citizens to become experts in energy, taxation, health and everything, but citizens do not have the time and the skills. They can't become experts on everything. Then there is a weak population that is uneliminable. I am thinking of pensioners, sick people and people with various difficulties who will not succeed and will not be able to have these skills. We legislators should simplify people's lives and not make them worse. We should be aware that in other countries, which have implemented a similar process, this has happened: most users did not have the competence to choose and ended up in the pejorative service, which we called for safeguard. You have given a decree of the Ministry of Economic Development the definition of the passage of the end of the protected market and this has two consequences: an increase in the cost of the supply and a decrease of the rights sanctioned by the European Union, because the electric market will no longer be considered as universal service. So, there will be an increase in costs and a decrease in fees, a fantastic subscription. I have already said before that the customer who will consciously choose will most likely pay about 20 percent more; the customer who will not choose will pay even more because the safeguard service, contrary to the name, because it has for purpose the incentive of the transition to the free market, will cost even more. The choice is, therefore, between paying about 15-20 percent more consciously or paying even more unknowingly. Very good: it's as if you give a person the option to jump in the frying pan or in the fire. We make a virtuous reference point disappear because the protected market was a virtuous bottom-up reference point. By making it disappear - be careful - we create the serious danger of triggering a vicious circle: by disappearing a point of reference down, the suppliers will be free to raise because there will be no more that point of reference and they will have the excuse to say that they always cost a little less than the safeguard service and that it is better to stay with them, even if they charge dearly. I repeat that in the United Kingdom, where they did this type of operation, they had to put a roof in order to prevent this vicious circle from going on forever. Now, let us remember that with the text that we approve, we will give many people the opportunity to enter this safeguard market more expensive than 100 euros per megawattora (because at this time the safeguard market costs 100 euros per megawattora more than the free market) and this is a responsibility that you assume especially for SMEs that naturally consume a good amount of energy. Who will benefit? Of course, the big operators. This morning, my colleague, Mr Cucchetti, mentioned Enel, of course, but there is also Sorgenia and here we have the link with the banks because Sorgenia is owned by the banks, who naturally wanted the return of the favor done with the loan of 20 billion euros and so they have obviously come to beat the cash (among other things, allow me the parenthesis, we will see if these 20 billion euros will be enough to save the banks). This is because you did not want to vote on our proposal. Yes, there was a very simple alternative: to leave things as they were and inform citizens that the market is already free, to make them grow culturally as the rapporteur wished, explaining to them that there are more affordable offers, because actually, to date, there are more affordable offers than the protected market but it takes an informed, attentive and high-level cultural customer to take advantage of them. But this, of course, was too easy and too demanding a solution because it would actually mean safeguarding consumers' rights, making them grow and hoping for a virtuous market that would continue with a virtuous circle. Well: I repeat the example regarding my daughter to whom I took away the lifesaver when she learned to swim, not before. You guys are taking the lifeguard off 24 million people who can't swim. A lot of these people aren't gonna learn to do that, and you're taking away his life jacket. You take this responsibility. You have hindered our proposals, you have done a favor to the great lobbyists, you have slapped the citizens who want to participate in improving this country, participate in the change of a world that should no longer wage wars for those who pollute and for those who extract oil and coal but would like to work for a perpetual and structural peace. For these reasons I declare the vote against the 5 Star Movement. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-816.ana.u82	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-816.ana.u83	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-816.ana.u84	DE PETRIS (Misto-SI-SEL). Madam President, someone will help me because I have lost track of the issues of trust raised by the government. Once again this is a measure that comes to this House and we only have the possibility of a general debate and then move on to a vote of confidence. I have to say that this draft competition law in particular, which was actually ready for a long time to arrive in this House, is indeed an additional problem. In fact, I say this very clearly to the Government, it is obvious that complicated and difficult work has been done: in some parts progress has been made objectively but in others absolutely not and I believe that the work of the House and the work on the amendments would have allowed at least to be done, or at least to discuss publicly some issues which, among other things, are particularly important for the interests of the citizens. This means that, in the end, the stated objectives, namely to make this bill a positive instrument for millions of citizens, who every day have to do with services and the purchase of products, and to create a real opening in a market too often in the hands of a small group of oligopolies, have not been achieved in our view. I say this with extreme tranquility and frankness because in some areas, no doubt, a few steps forward, even with the work of the Senate, has been done, while in other areas this has not happened at all. For reasons of time, I will try to address some issues that, like the Italian Left, are particularly dear to us and on which, among other things, we had tabled amendments. With regard to the issue of pharmacies, we believe that the choice that has been made not to achieve the liberalisation of C-belt medicines is absolutely wrong. This is not only because we are hanging the issue of the various pharmacies, on which the rapporteur said that we will then see what will happen (the issue was certainly not invented, since it was born on the basis of a legislative measure and a Minister), but also because we believe that this liberalisation would have been a double benefit for citizens. In fact, on the one hand, it would have allowed - and we are absolutely certain of this, because we have a lot of data and many observers have worked on it - a reduction in the price; on the other hand, there would have been a widening of the distribution structure of various drugs. I have heard here that the liberalisation of C-band drugs would result in the use and abuse of this type of drugs. MARINO Luigi, rapporteur. I didn't say that. DE PETRIS (Misto-SI-SEL). The rapporteur did not say that, but other Members have said so. I should like to point out that, in our view, this does not correspond at all to the truth. I have heard of supermarkets; but unfortunately the pharmacies - alas - are already at this time. We attend all the pharmacies and are surrounded by "guided visits" through the pharmacies where there are various offers of various products (not yet of drugs, but in reality also of those in some ways). The real problem facing us is the cost of drugs. I would like to remind you that there are now hundreds of thousands of people who are no longer able to access treatment and who are no longer able to buy drugs, so instruments such as liberalisation would have offered - according to some calculations that I can report - the possibility of saving 42 euros per year in the family and therefore would have been absolutely helpful. However, the cost of drugs deserves a separate discussion. This is the big issue that we are facing. In our view, this liberalisation, on which we agreed, would have given the possibility of reducing the cost of certain medicines. But the real point, Madam President, is respect for the constitutional dictation: I am referring to the right to health and the possibility of being able to take care, which in our country - alas - is no longer guaranteed to everyone. We should have taken care of this and taken care of it, instead of just protecting the lobby. In addition, there is an operation that allows capital companies to enter the pharmacies. Thanks to the removal of the limit of the four pharmacies, it opens a scenario that will risk making even the so-called pharmacists owners slaves of a series of chains of multinational companies. In my city this phenomenon has already been happening for a few years: there are strange phenomena of pharmacies failures that are then purchased, with strange operations, even outside the law (but that will now be allowed), concentration of a large number of pharmacies in the hands of a few people. In our view, these are very dangerous phenomena. Another point on which we want to make our voice heard and which we absolutely did not agree with is the question of energy and the electricity market. I would like to take up, among other things, the arguments made by Senator Girotto just now. We are very concerned that 24 million users will, in fact, be put at the mercy of energy sellers because they are outside the protected market. If they do not fall within the so-called safeguard band, which is worse than the free market, this will cause damage to citizens and consumers. On this side, fortunately, interventions have been made, but I would like to remind you of what has happened to hundreds of thousands of elderly people through the scam of the passage, already now, to the free market. You will tell me that this will not be the case, but I would like to take this example to say that it is the problem of the awareness of these choices which, in any case, will not be aimed at safeguarding or protecting the weakest. Then there is the big question. Many of my colleagues have signed my amendment and that of Senator Girotto on closed distribution systems. We had tabled these amendments in a cross-cutting way to finally give everyone the freedom to produce energy from renewable sources and to sell it to their neighbours, energy communities (which are very widespread in Northern Europe) and neighbouring companies. We can delay what we want, but in the end Italy will have to have access to this possibility as well. However, we will arrive late and thus deprive ourselves of the possibility of moving to distributed generation, with a qualitative leap for our country in the field of energy. I remember that this system is allowed throughout Europe, except for Spain. For all this, we must once again thank the strong resistance to innovation of the great energy monopolists, despite - I would like to remind you here - the competition and market authority had expressly asked the legislator to intervene and introduce a legislative amendment that would allow full transposition of the European guidelines and directives. Finally, Madam President, I would like to ask you a few minutes to address the question of Article 68, which, among other things, involves you directly as a member of the Commission for Public Education, Cultural Heritage. I have heard here, even a short while ago, give many reasons for these regulatory changes. We believe that everything that, under the pretext of competition, ends up loosening the system of protecting our cultural heritage is absolutely wrong. Even the private one? Yeah, even the private one in this case. I remember, among other things, that we are one of those countries that suffered most from being deprived of many works of art. Italy is one of the countries most affected by the problem of theft and theft. The rule that, for works with a value of less than EUR 13,500, allows to obtain the export licence automatically using the self-declaration introduces a mechanism of relaxation of the protection. The other element which concerns us very much is a matter which is neither small nor pilgrim. I am referring to the possibility of tying up private works and raising time from fifty to seventy years. This measure goes hand in hand with other non-positive measures which - alas - have also been taken by the Ministry and which affect the system of protection of our heritage, which is national and which, consisting of a public and private component (in this private case), makes our country great in the field of cultural goods. For all these reasons, the Left-Italian component - Left Ecology Freedom of the Mixed Group will vote no to the confidence and also to the merit of the measure, as motivated with precision on at least some issues. We believe that the measure is completely ineffective, in some parts of it, to really guarantee not only the opening of the market, but also the protection of the interests of citizens. [[Applause from the Misso-SI-SEL Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-816.ana.u85	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-816.ana.u86	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-816.ana.u87	PELINO (FI-PdL XVII). Madam President, Government, ladies and gentlemen, the vote on Forza Italia will be a vote against, first of all because the question of trust has been raised on the measure and this - let us be honest - has removed the chestnuts from the fire. In fact, even on the substance, the doubts of a party of broad liberal inspiration such as Forza Italia were many since the start of the procedure of the measure. Doubts that after a year and a half of stop and go in the Industry Commission in the Senate still remain, because on the merits we did not want to make those steps towards a regime of competition necessary to free those energies that the country needs to grow. Italy is still a still country; what little moves moves in sectors where, fortunately, regulation is still poor and you can create business and business opportunities. They are often research- and innovation-related companies, because this should lead to competition: the creation of new economic initiatives and the creation of new jobs. A serious competition law should be a set of rules that lay down stable and lasting provisions to regulate the market. On the contrary, the annual competition law cannot but pursue the liberalisation processes, often dictated by globalisation and new technologies, risking always arriving a moment later. Unfortunately, as we arrive late, we reduce the possibility for the economy to free itself and grow, to combine the new with the old; economic activity is slowed down, without being able to stop it, driven mainly by external factors rather than by a preventive regulation of the markets. The annual instrument of the Competition Act is, therefore, now inadequate and will certainly need to be revised before any further examination of the next Annual Competition Act. This was well said by the President of the Industry Commission, Massimo Cucchetti, and clearly pointed out by one of the rapporteurs of the measure under consideration in the Commission, Senator Luigi Marino. Moreover, it is the Government itself that evaluates a rather limited impact - someone has also said overestimated - of the macroeconomic effects of the competition reforms included in the draft law under consideration. Indeed, in the National Reform Programme linked to the 2017 Economy and Finance Document, the impact of five-year gross domestic product growth is 0.2 per cent, 0.5 per cent at ten years and 1% at regime level, i.e. in the long term. A rather limited impact, given the 74 articles of the measure, which is therefore a sort of omnibus measure on competition. It must also be stressed that the financial impact of the measures contained in the National Reform Plan, which concern the product and competition market, both for this reason and for next year, is mainly higher expenditure, which will have to fall into the following years. My colleagues Mr Mandelli, Mr Galimberti and Mr Gasparri have already expressed their views on the individual measures, addressing in detail some of the issues that have been raised (I will come back to the question of taxis later). In particular, new interventions are needed - and here only the content of a delegation is mentioned - such as those that have been implemented several years ago in the markets of telephony and energy; as well as some progress has already been made on the constraints to the owners and a good impulse to the market rules has been given by the provisions adopted and the control implemented by the independent authorities. Action will need to be taken on delegated rules, because concrete action is now needed on the tendering of local public services, which are the bulk of the local economy and the daily rates that citizens face; we are referring in particular to waste collection services and local public transport. The problem is not so much the number of companies involved, but the level of productivity and therefore efficiency of the companies, which must be such as to justify their presence on the market. There are now many examples of local public services entrusted to entirely private companies, for example in local public transport in different cities of Northern Italy, managed with efficiency and cost-effectiveness criteria, which record a higher level of reliability than public or participating ones, reporting a much higher level of satisfaction of users. These are concrete cases that are now repeated in different local realities, starting from which we must try to replicate those models at national level. It is useless to continue to protect authentic carriages, champions of waste, clientele and inefficiency, such as the local public services of some cities, which we all present thanks to the daily news that does not even need to mention. There are, therefore, positive models to be adopted, which must be put forward again in the interests of the common people, of the users who are the first to expect Parliament to consider measures to simplify their lives and make the services they buy cheaper every day. Unfortunately, we must point out that technological developments and good business organisation models are sometimes worth more than any competition law. They force old business models to chase new and public logics to keep up with the times. True competition is now global, but real competition is also on taxes. It is absurd - and it has frustrated the measures to liberalise the energy market - the level of taxes and taxes on electricity bills. True competition is done on the advantages that the growing economies of the world throw in the face of our economy, still too entangled in their excessive bureaucracy. I start to conclude, noting that the measure is not everything to be thrown away, because it certainly also contains measures that can be shared and on which Forza Italia was decisive in order to arrive at a more coherent regulation, but it was necessary to carry out a further work of chiseling and fine-tuning. Even today both the rapporteurs and the President, as well as the oppositions - first of all Forza Italia - have asked the Government to return the measure to the Commission to review some essential points in a very short time. Unfortunately, the government, deaf to these demands, has put yet another question of trust in order to mortify Parliament's work once again. Competition, as I said, also means less taxes and less bureaucracy, but it does not mean trampling on the acquired rights of workers, of those who fight every day on the road to guarantee a wage for themselves and for their families. In this regard, it must be said that the Government puts Senate trust on a text that contains, in paragraph 180, of Article 1, a completely penalising rule for taxi drivers: the category was in fact deceived by the Government Gentiloni Silveri. Forza Italia - as my colleague Gasparri has said - asked and obtained a negotiation with the Government so that a just agreement could be found. Negotiations have been opened, but Delrio has in fact deceived the workers. The ministerial measure has not yet seen the light, while at the push of the Uber lobby, a paragraph has been inserted that favours those who operate without any employment and quality guarantee for consumers. This led to yet another betrayal of the PD. We have always defended the reasons of road workers, who must not be wiped out by unfair competition. The Democratic Party has mortified taxi drivers. Trusting in a text that contains a norm such as that of paragraph 180 is a very serious fact, so we vote against the confidence of this Government and we hope that politics can keep up with progress and innovation, which certainly make progress in the country towards a more free market, combining them, however, always and first of all with the sacred rights of workers and users. [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-816.ana.u88	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-816.ana.u89	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-816.ana.u90	ZANDA (PD). Madam President, I welcome the Government's decision to put the question of trust in a first substantial package of rules on freedom of competition. Good for the relief of the provision. Well, because that concludes a long debate that in the Senate has engaged for almost two years the majority and oppositions and good, because it makes it possible for the bill on competition to become law in this legislature. In recent decades, the issue of competition has arisen every time we dealt with privileges, corporations and interests of organized pressure groups, but also when we talked about growth and development, liberalisation, open markets, freedom of initiative. Some senators, finally Senators Pelino and De Petris, have legitimately preferred to underline what the bill does not contain, what they would have preferred to have been written differently, what they politically do not share. Others - it seems to me with better arguments - have highlighted the many new rules, the openings to the market, the opportunities that the new legislation will offer to the operators, and also, not least, the extraordinary step forward that Italy is preparing to make towards an ever greater integration with the economies of our European partners. We all know that the work of the Government and Parliament on competition matters is far from over; perhaps by reviewing the instrument of the annual law, as the rapporteurs Marino and Tomaselli, Senators Lanzillotta and Cucchetti have observed and just now Senator Pelino. But, while respecting all opinions, it seems to me that the content of the new rules and the spirit that animates the balance strongly hangs on the side of a largely positive judgment. We owe this good result to the long and serious debate in the Commission and in this House, as well as to the hard and very useful work of the two rapporteurs. The rapporteurs, the speeches in general and the explanations of vote informed the House of the content of the measure which I am not now presenting again. All I'm saying is that we redefine the disciplines of sectors that have a very important part in the economic life of our country: from energy to telephony, from insurance to banking services, from pension funds to electronic communications, to professions, to transport. The vastness of the regulations that we are going to approve, the multiplicity of the sectors concerned, the incisiveness of the measures are there to demonstrate the size and pervasiveness of the obstacles to free competition that we have accumulated over time, holding back our growth. Replies that have limited the development of an economy characterized in many areas by an increase of completely unjustified costs, the result of a regulatory context together too rigid and too lascian, which has made Italy an environment in many cases not welcoming for international investments. All this without even offering the national production fabric the weapons necessary to meet the demands of an increasingly demanding and increasingly interconnected global market. The measures that we are going to introduce will affect not only businesses but also consumers themselves, changing their habits and behaviours, pushing them to seek contracts more adapted to their needs in markets in which more and more suppliers will operate, competing with each other. (16.38) (ZANDA followed). This is, therefore, the basic objective of the competition law: to renew and strengthen the Italian economy and prevent it from remaining dramatically behind other countries. We come to the Senate approval of this measure very late in relation to our needs, to the expectations of the markets, to the demands of our partners in the European Union. Recognizing the delay is pure truth; but the greatest delay is not the two years of the Senate, partly determined by non-parliamentary political events and the priority we have given to other measures. They weighed much more the previous decades, when Italy was basking in the illusion of being able to retain too many privileged, corporate and discriminatory positions, always avoiding, now for political reasons, now for the interest of some, to face with clarity and foresight the node of full freedom of competition. In the life of nations, as well as in that of people, time is not an independent variable. Debating it can cost a lot of money. One thing is the time needed for the natural development of political and social processes; another is the time we have thrown away for the yieldingness of politics in the face of pressure from interests. I also say this by thinking of the three years of intense reformism that we have behind us. Today we seem to be unaware of what Parliament and the Government have produced over the last three years. But when we are able to examine it objectively, we will fully appreciate its value. We must give this work continuity. We are in the last year of the legislature and, as the vote we will be voting on the very sensitive issue of competition shows, we can still achieve significant results. The Senators and Senators of the Democratic Party will soon vote for the Government and will do so for more reasons: not only because they share the content of the new rules, but also because of some important elements of context that give this vote a wider value, a strategic value. Europe and Italy are going through a difficult but also very interesting phase. We know that anti-system forces still have a substantial burden throughout the West. Yet there are new signs, something is moving in European policy. I may be wrong, but the risky inadequacy of anti-system forces is increasingly felt by many European citizens. After the referendum on the exit of the United Kingdom from the Union, the signs of political maturity and economic awakening from the nations that form the founding core of Europe are unique, explicit and positive. The extremist formations were defeated in Austria and Holland. Spain has stabilized at the end of a long democratic path. In France, Macron's showy success in the first round is hopeful for next Sunday. In Germany, Schulz and Merkel are two leaders whose Europeanism is well known and proven. In this Europe, which is politically still in the balance, but which is evolving in a positive direction, economic recovery has also been consolidating and gradually strengthening for more than a year. Among the nations that have made Europe and want to be decisive for its future, there is Italy in the foreground. From us, if we consider where we started, if we remember what the values were four or five years ago and evaluate how much the burden of our public debt weighs, the signs of our economic recovery are equally concrete and visible. Minister Padoan is right, when he notes that the reservations that Fitch has expressed over the past few weeks about Italy are linked not so much to the development of our economy, but to the uncertainty of the political perspectives. It is in this context that the Senate's vote on freedom of competition also acquires a strong political value. It is a sign that, even at this stage, Parliament continues to be strongly committed to a concrete reformist line. Italy must be able to live up to the challenges of this time, keeping pace with the many of our European partners, from whom there are unequivocal signs that it wants to give more political and economic strength to Europe. At last we are talking about the need for greater integration, at least for those countries of the Union that will and will be able to do so. More cooperation, also to be achieved by increasing the European institutions in decisive areas for our future, such as investment support, the completion of the banking union, fiscal policy, migration management, defence and common security. In today's sitting, the best way for the Italian Senate to participate in a process that could soon see new prospects of greater convergence rekindled in the Union is to vote for the government's confidence in a measure that very seriously brings us closer to the Europe of integration and liberalisation. [[Applause from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-816.ana.u91	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote in dissent from my Group.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-816.ana.u92	I take note of that and give you the floor.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-816.ana.u93	CUOMO (PD). Mr President, I disagree with my Group's position for two reasons, which I shall briefly explain. The tariff affair of the RC car is a story that comes from afar: it was born with a measure bearing the so-called Italy Destination Plan, Decree-Law No. 145 of 23 December 2013. As a result of this measure, we have been the subject of a propaganda campaign of lies carried out by some members of the 5 Star Movement, who have repeatedly represented, through social and other propaganda instruments, the fact that some Neapolitan parliamentarians had voted against the system of tariff reduction for virtuous motorists, on equal conditions with other territories. I must necessarily deny this news, because the amendments proposed at the time of the Italian decree-law destination, which were proposed and discussed at the sitting of 19 February 2014, although approved, would not have had any effect, as the terms of conversion would have expired four days later, exactly on 23 February, and there would never have been the material time for the Chamber of Deputies to make them become law. This lying campaign must therefore be returned to those who think they can continue to speculate instrumentally on a problem that has not currently been solved in any way. The other reason I am speaking is because I have heard from the rapporteur, Senator Marino, in his reply, that the intervention on RC cars is an advantage in favour of motorists rather than insurance companies, who in fact scream, said Senator Marino. I add that, probably, they shriek with joy. And I quote only a few facts to Senator Marino: with this tariff system, we have obtained that in some areas of Campania about 40% of motor vehicles and motor vehicles of old registration run around without RC cars, because the price of the policy is higher than the value of the vehicle. In addition, I must remind both speakers and the Government that Deputy Minister De Vincenti committed the Government on 25 July 2014 to recover this unequal treatment. The Chamber of Deputies, in the same draft competition law, had fixed the problem, but both the Government and the rapporteurs again wanted to reverse this principle of fairness and the removal of territorial tariff discrimination for reasons which I do not agree with and which I cannot support with my vote. For these reasons, Mr President, I will not take part in the vote of confidence.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-816.ana.u94	There is a representation of students and teachers of the Istituto comprensivo "Pasquale Leonetti Senior" in Corigliano Calabro, in the province of Cosenza, to whom we address our greetings. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-816.ana.u95	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote in dissent from my Group.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-816.ana.u96	I take note of that and give you the floor. TREMONTI (GAL (GS, PPI, M, Id, E-E, MPL, RI)). Mr President, objectively I have some difficulty in sharing the enthusiasm with which this measure is pointed out, which should be the engine for pushing and competition in the country's economy. However, specifically, paragraphs 158 to 164 of the Single Article deal with measures to increase competition in pharmaceutical distribution. I wonder if the dynamics and origin of this rule are clear. I believe that it is a corruptive origin and that the fact that it has led to the introduction of this rule into the measure is far-reaching and very serious. And I think it doesn't go in the sense of competition but, if anything, of the opposite, of non-transparency, the fact that the Senate votes for rules of this kind, with this corruptive causality.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-816.ana.u97	[[Applause from the LN-Aut Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-816.ana.u98	I would like to point out the vote on amendment 1,800, tabled by the Government, entirely replacing the articles of draft law n. 2085, on the approval of which the Government has raised the question of trust. Pursuant to Rule 94, second paragraph, of the Constitution and pursuant to Rule 161, paragraph 1, of the Rules of Procedure, the vote on the matter of trust will take place by roll-call vote. Each senator called by the Senator Secretary will have to vote before the Presidency. The senators for trust will answer yes; the opposing senators will answer no; the senators who intend to abstain will speak accordingly. She asked to vote first for health reasons, and I granted it, Senator Valentini. I urge the Senator Secretary to proceed with the appeal of this senator. (The said senator responds to the appeal.) I now draw by lot the name of the senator from whom the roll call will begin. (The name of Senator Fattori is drawn by lot.) I invite the Senator Secretary to proceed with the appeal, starting with Senator Fattori. SAGGESE, secretary, makes the appeal. (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) The senators answered: Aiello, Albano, Albertini, Amati, Angioni, Anitori, Astorre Battista, Bencini, Berger, Bertuzzi, White, Bianconi, Bonaiuti, Bondi, Borioli, Bubbico, Buemi Caleo, Cantini, Capacchione, Cardinals, Casini, Casano, Cattaneo, Chiavaroli, Chiti, Cirinnà, Cocincich, Collina, Colucci, Conte, Corsini, Cucca D'Adda, Dalla Tor, Dalla Zuanna, D'Ascola, De Biaschi, De Poli, Del Barba, Della Vedova, Di Biagio, Filippi, Finocchiaro, Firindin, Finsore, Forghiolo, Fornaro, Fanti, Guerraolo, Fatorini, Favero, Ferrara Elena, Filippin, Filippin, Fincchiaro, Finsore, Fincori, Fincori, Firino, Firino, Forni, Fornaro, Guarizio, Giono, Fornaro, Locinoro, Fierno, Feverizio The senators: Amidesi, Amoruso, Arrigoni, Augello, Auricchio, Azzollini Barani, Barozzino, Bellot, Bernini, Bertorotta, Blundo, Boccardi, Bocchino, Bonfrisco, Bottici, Bruni, Buccarella, Bulgarelli Calderoli, Caliendo, Campanella, Candiani, Cappelletti, Cardiello, Carraro, Casaletto, Cassinelli, Castaldi, Catalfo, Centinario, Ceroni, Cervellini, Ciampolillo, Cioffi, Compagnone, Consiglio, Cotti, Crosio D'Ambrosio Lettieri, D'Anna, De Cristofari, De Petris, De Pietro, De Pin, De Mano, Divina, Donno Endrizzi Fasano, Fazzone, Ferrara Mario Gaetti, Galimberti, Gasparri, Giarri, Giaruso, Giaruso, Gibino, Gibino, Giardino, Giardino, Giardino, Giardino, Giovani, Giovani. Senators abstain: Conti. (Senators Falanga and Stephen declare that they do not participate in the vote). PRESIDENT. - The debate is I declare the vote closed and invite the Secretary Senators to proceed with the counting of votes. (Secretary Senators proceed to count votes). I declare the result of the roll-call vote by appeal of amendment 1,800, tabled by the Government, entirely replacing the articles of bill n. 2085, on the approval of which the Government has posed the question of trust: [[Senators present 272 Senators voting 269 Majority 135 Favorable 158 Contrars 110 Absent 1]] The Senate approves. All amendments and agendas submitted to the draft law are therefore withdrawn or precluded.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-816.ana.u99	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-816.ana.u100	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-816.ana.u101	AMORUSO (ALA-SCLP). Madam President, I would simply like to urge, if possible, the Ministry of Education, University and Research, on a question I asked a while ago, but published on 26 April 2017, the 4-07413, which spoke of an agreement signed between the Ministry itself and the Puglia Region on 16 December 2015. Following this agreement, concerning the realization of interventions aimed at improving the levels of learning of the Apulian school population, to be carried out through actions to recover and strengthen knowledge and skills for the school year 2015-2016, the Region Puglia issued the public notice for the elaboration of projects. For several years now there has been also the right to school: an important project which, while having as its central point the interests of the pupils, also has the objective of taking on the precarious conditions - this is the important aspect, Madam President - of the ATA staff and teachers of the school or school graduations, ensuring that the latter can assist the curriculum teachers in supporting children with learning difficulties. The project, now ten years old, has always guaranteed participants the recognition of the score, except for 2015-2016 because, in article 9, the Region Puglia has expressly written that this score would not be recognized. I ask to know if the Ministry, perhaps without being caught by the airs of the Roman spring, intends to wake up and intervene immediately. In the meantime that we pose this problem and the teachers still live the anguish of not knowing whether or not they will have the recognition of the scores, the judge of the work of Brindisi, with a sentence, has recognized to four teachers the score, saying expressly that what previewed in paragraph 9 is in contrast with the ratio of the project "Rights to school", inaugurated in implementation of the provisions of decree-law n. 134 of 2009, converted by law n. 167 of 2009, and therefore must be disenforced. In fact, the Memorandum of Understanding is not strictly legally binding and, in any case, cannot derogate from the legal rules. It has, in essence, recognized the scores to the applicants, who have always been entitled to them; the Region does not adapt and the Ministry sleeps. I think that a request in this direction, even in the light of the question, would be appropriate.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-816.ana.u102	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-816.ana.u103	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-816.ana.u104	BOTTICS (M5S). Madam President, it is news of the last few days that two fourth-class students from the Institute "Giotto Ulivi" in Borgo San Lorenzo from 20 to 25 March took part in a school-work alternation project at the Il Forteto cooperative. The school manager stated that he was not aware of this and announced that he had canceled the other internships at The Forteto and to have removed the cooperative from the list of companies with which the institute can activate projects of alternation school-work. That's crazy! It's always late. Meanwhile Rodolfo Fiesoli helps a priest in the area in the function of mass and in the collection of offers, in contact with children who receive the first communion. It's a real paradox. The church is a place where children should be safe and, instead, they are in contact with a convicted man for sexual abuse and other, who - apparently - has never publicly regretted what he has done. What are you doing? Nothing. Continue to protect a sick system, while other children may be in the same condition as the victims of the Forteto. President D'Ascola and Senator Capacchione, you are responsible for the stalemate of the measure aimed at setting up a Committee of Inquiry into the events at Il Forteto and, together with the majority that governs this country, you just have to be ashamed. [[Applause from Senator Puglia.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-816.ana.u105	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-816.ana.u106	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-816.ana.u107	CANDIANI (LN-Aut). Madam President, today I was in Terni, where the mayor was arrested, along with the city council member, and the rest of the Junta is under investigation. I have been there with Mr Salvini and other people, militants of the League and simple citizens, who have joined us in protesting about this situation. I was really shocked to read the statements made by a senator from PD, who calls Salvini a storyteller and talks about jackaling Terni. Today we went to do justice to the citizens who have been mocked and deceived by a Democratic Party that, instead of ruling in their own interests, has re-edited the contracts - as the investigations say - to win the cooperatives that are obviously closest to the party itself. I believe that we need to be quiet - and I say this to those who have been rash with these statements - and listen to the citizens and how angry they are, because nobody would like them to live in Terni as in any other reality, Madam President, to be in a newspaper title that says that the mayor and the city councilmen have been arrested. It is a bad publicity for the city of Terni, which does not deserve it and it is certainly a fact that dishonors good administration. It is clear that for a certain way of doing politics, for the Democratic Party that governs Terni and Umbria, retouching contracts and making friends win is a way of managing power. It's not a single one, it's a system, and this system is exploding. It's good that you start exploding in Terni, and we'll be there denouncing these situations, even if the senators of the Democratic Party arrive to do the red rescue against their caged mayor. Madam President, this is not a worthy behaviour. Those who administer in this way must be sent home. Even in Terni we return to vote quickly, to give the citizens the certainty of an honest administration like that that they know how to do all the other mayors not investigated and that they do not behave in the same way. Don't let this go as normal behavior. It's not normal to retouch contracts. It is not normal to win the friendly cooperatives, because all citizens are discriminated against by such behavior. And from those who sit in this Chamber there would be some expectation of what is unfortunately emerging from judicial proceedings, and not those rash judgments that we have read. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-816.ana.u108	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-816.ana.u109	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-816.ana.u110	Arrigoni (LN-Aut). Madam President, I am speaking on the question of the reception system for asylum seekers, which was the subject of a statement by Mr Zuccaro today in the Defence Commission. He said that the reception system for asylum seekers creates an appetite for organised crime, which attacks the enormous resources that the Italian State allocates for the reception system: over 2,200 million. Well, we have not yet been satisfied by Minister Minniti with two parliamentary questions: the first of 30 March 2017, the 4-07299, and the next, of similar tenor, of 19 April 2017, the 4-07375 We confirm an anomaly present in the numbers given by the Ministry of Interior. It is not possible today, four months after the beginning of the year, that the number of migrants and asylum seekers within the system is similar to that of 31 December last year: only 1,000 more, 177,000 against 176,000, when in the last four years we have seen an exponential increase in attendance, and when in the first four months of this year the landings have increased by 35 percent. Not only that, but from the first of the year until a few days ago more than 46,000 people applied for asylum and therefore, according to Legislative Decree No. 142 of 2015, they must enter the reception system. Overxia, for the Northern League, there are about 45,000 people to be counted as present in the reception system. What's going on? We asked with two questions about transparency in numbers. And this was also put in black and white in the recent immigration decree. What does the Minister of the Interior do in exchange? For over twenty days, in the daily dashboard that every two or three days is updated on the number of landings and relocations, and that is still stationary, the number of asylum seekers in the reception system has disappeared. This is shameful. We call for transparency and clarity, because there are huge numbers and enormous economic resources financed by the Italians. Organized crime is involved. So we are announcing a further question in the next few hours on the same subject. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-816.ana.u111	The motions, questions and questions received by the Presidency will be published in Annex B to today's report.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-816.ana.u112	The Senate will meet again in public tomorrow, Thursday 4 May, at 9.30 a.m., with the following agenda: (See agenda) The sitting was closed at 5.44 p.m.
