ParlaMint-IT_2017-09-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-885.ana.u1	The sitting is open (9.35 a.m.). The Minutes shall be read. Mr Frevezzi, Secretary, read the Minutes of the afternoon sitting of the previous day.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-09-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-885.ana.u2	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-09-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-885.ana.u3	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-09-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-885.ana.u4	CANDIANI (LN-Aut). Mr President, I would like to ask for the vote on the Minutes, subject to a quorum check. Verification of quorum
ParlaMint-IT_2017-09-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-885.ana.u5	I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators, by electronic procedure. (The request is supported). I therefore call on the senators to make their presence known by electronic means. (Follows the quorum check.) The Senate has a quorum. Resumption of the debate on the Minutes I put the Minutes to the vote. It's approved.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-09-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-885.ana.u6	The list of senators on leave and absent on assignment received from the Senate, as well as further communications to the Assembly, will be published in Annex B to today's Minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-09-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-885.ana.u7	I would warn you that qualified votes can be taken in the course of today's sitting by electronic means. Therefore, from this moment the period of 20 minutes from the notice provided for in Article 119, paragraph 1, of the Regulation (9:39 hours) begins.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-09-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-885.ana.u8	The next item is the debate on draft law No 2541, already approved by the House of Deputies in a text resulting from the unification of the draft own-initiative law of the Realacci and others deputies; Thirds and others. The rapporteurs, Senators Vaccari and Mancuso, asked for permission to carry out the oral report. No comments were made and the request was accepted. I therefore call the rapporteur, Senator Vaccari. [[Brusio]] I would ask at least those Members who are behind the rapporteur to be silent.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-09-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-885.ana.u9	Mr President, undersecretary Degani, ladies and gentlemen, today the draft law on measures for the support and enhancement of small towns and the provisions for the redevelopment and recovery of the historic centres of these municipalities, of which I am the rapporteur together with my colleague Mr Mancuso, comes to the attention of this House. It is a draft law of parliamentary initiative, at the first signature of my colleague Ermete Realacci, unanimously approved by the Chamber of Deputies, in view of the importance of the contents, strongly shared and much awaited by the Italian Municipalities, which, as we know, in most of them are small. In fact, in the 5,585 small municipalities with less than 5,000 inhabitants, which comprise about 57 percent of the Italian territory, currently live more than 10 million Italians. In this context there are about 400,000 agricultural enterprises, committed to ensuring the protection of traditional crops, the maintenance of typical food, the protection of the territory from hydrogeological failure and fires. The municipalities under 5.000 inhabitants cover a territory where, thanks to agriculture, more than half of the national agri-food production is cultivated, which has made Made in Italy famous worldwide. A heritage that bases its success also on the particularly fertile soil that offer small municipalities to quality productions: in the territory of 3 small municipalities out of 4 there are farms intended to produce cheeses or Italian salami PDO, while in 60 percent of the small municipalities there are olive groves from which are obtained the 38 Italian oils with designation of origin. Municipalities and territories where this year there has been more than 76 percent of tourist presences. Even for this data, small municipalities are a resource and not a problem for our country. President Mattarella himself has not failed to reiterate on several occasions that the main antidote to the abandonment and depopulation of small territories is the relaunch of the strategy of the internal areas. And this revival necessarily goes through legislative initiatives such as today at our examination, aimed specifically at establishing principles of access to services even new for those territories, to counter their abandonment, depopulation and natural hardships and to prevent their hydrogeological failure. While the Commission did not make any changes to the text in order to speed up its approval in this House during its substantive examination, it wanted to approve some important agendas which I would like to draw attention to. Three agendas concern the facilitated pharmaceutical distribution and the provision of additional services by the pharmacies themselves. Two agendas concern the inclusion in the National Plan for the redevelopment of small municipalities also of the interventions closely connected to the areas in hydrogeological failure, of forest improvement and of the renaturalization of the watercourses, in this sense authorising the municipalities to conclude agreements and contracts of contract with the agricultural-forestry entrepreneurs of the territory. An agenda concerns the extension in the next useful measure of the same measures of this bill also to the municipalities up to 10,000 inhabitants. Another agenda is to take all appropriate measures to ensure the harmonisation of public contract legislation with the special legislation to protect the multifunctionality of farmers and forestry and mountain areas. The Parliamentary Committee on Regional Affairs has also been given useful guidance to consider the possibility of involving the regions and local authorities in the process of adopting the selection measures for the projects submitted, which I will be discussing shortly. Coming to the description of the text, which I will deal with for the first half of the articles, Article 1 sets out the aims of the bill, which concerns municipalities with a population of up to 5,000 inhabitants. They consist of promoting and promoting sustainable economic, social, environmental and cultural development, promoting the demographic balance of the country, promoting residence in these municipalities, and encouraging the protection and enhancement of the natural, rural, historical-cultural and architectural heritage. The draft law also sets out the purpose of promoting measures to the benefit of both citizens who reside there and of production activities, with regard to the system of essential services and with the aim of combating depopulation and encouraging the influx of tourists. The definition of "small municipality" is anchored, in a first part, to the dimensional characteristics of the municipality, which must have a resident population of up to 5,000 inhabitants or be established as a result of fusion between municipalities having each population of up to 5,000 inhabitants. In addition, it is also required that the municipality falls within one of the types indicated therein, so that it can benefit from the financing granted under Article 3 of the bill. The measure defines the instrument to establish, respectively, the criteria for the definition of the parameters related to the types of small municipalities and the list of small municipalities for the application of the regulatory forecasts introduced. The latter list is expected to be adopted by decree of the President of the Council, on a proposal from the Minister for the Interior and in agreement with the Minister for Economic Affairs and Finance and with the Minister for the Environment, after agreement with the United Conference, with an update every three years. Moreover, it is established that the Regions can define interventions further than those provided for in the proposed law in question for the attainment of the objectives indicated, also in order to contribute to the implementation of the national strategy for the development of the internal areas. Article 2 lays down provisions on activities and services, leaving to the designated bodies the promotion of the quality and efficiency of essential services in small municipalities with regard to a number of areas, such as environment, civil protection, education, health, social assistance services, transport, road, postal services, as well as the repopulation of the municipalities in question, including through experimental residential projects. The possibility is envisaged in small municipalities, even in associated form, to establish multifunctional centres for the provision of a plurality of services for citizens as well as the possibility of concluding special agreements with service dealers. Article 3 establishes a Fund for the structural, economic and social development of small municipalities, for the financing of investments for a number of purposes, with a budget of €10 million for 2017, and €15 million for each of the years 2018 to 2023. A national plan for the redevelopment of small municipalities and a list of priority actions under the national plan are planned for the use of these resources. With regard to the recovery and redevelopment of historic centres and the promotion of popular hotels, Article 4 provides for the possibility, for small municipalities, to identify, within the perimeter of the historical centers, areas of particular value, from the point of view of the protection of architectural and cultural assets, to be retrained through integrated public and private interventions aimed at urban redevelopment, in compliance with the original types and structures, through the instruments provided for by the current state and regional legislation in this matter. Article 5 allows small municipalities, including through the resources of the Fund for structural, economic and social development, to take measures to acquire and refurbished buildings in order to combat the abandonment of land and buildings in a state of abandonment or degradation. Article 6 also allows small municipalities to acquire or conclude agreements for the recovery of cantonal homes and railway stations no longer used, as well as to acquire abandoned and non-recoverable railway sediments to the railway operation for purposes related to the valorization of their territories. Article 7 gives small municipalities the power, even in associated form, to conclude, with the dioceses of the Catholic Church and with the representations of other religious confessions that have concluded agreements with the State, conventions for the safeguarding and recovery of cultural, historical, artistic and bookshops of ecclesiastical bodies or of the bodies of civilly recognized religious confessions. Article 8 lays down rules for the development of the ultra-wideband network, establishing that areas of small municipalities for which there is no interest by operators in establishing networks for fast and ultra-fast connection can be allocated the resources envisaged, in implementation of the 2015 ultra-wideband plan for market failure areas. In addition, IT projects for small municipalities complying with the requirements of national and European Union legislation are expected to take precedence in access to public funding provided for in the current legislation for the implementation of e-government programmes. This is the first part of the article, which I shared with my colleague Mancuso regarding the description of a measure of absolute importance for our country. [[Applause from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-09-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-885.ana.u10	I call the rapporteur, Senator Mancuso.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-09-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-885.ana.u11	Mr President, I will deal with the second part of this measure. In the meantime, allow me to greet the Government, undersecretary Barbara Degani, who assisted us in the course of the debate in the Commission. Before explaining the articles of my competence, I would like to make a few comments on a long-awaited and troubled measure, which we hope today will see the light, after four times, in four legislative acts, had arrived in the Chamber without results. It is a draft law that - it is good to say - does not have as its object the institutional reorganization. There are other routes, many of which are unfinished, which deal with this aspect and which need to be resumed and completed. They go in the direction of overcoming fragmentation and accelerating cooperation processes between municipalities. This bill deals, rather, with something else, as Mr Vaccari said. It deals with municipalities with a population of less than 5,000 inhabitants, which represent a very important segment of our country. There are 5,850 municipalities with less than 5,000 inhabitants and account for 70 percent of the total of Italian municipalities. They cover 164,000 square kilometers and host about ten million inhabitants, just under 10 percent of the country's total population. Millions of inhabitants living in rural areas, in inland areas, in mountain areas, often ignored by an inattentive country, that forgets the characteristics, the foundations, the basis on which Italy is built. Territories that perhaps represent a minor Italy: small local communities that preserve the identity of our country. Local communities with great stories and traditions that, however, now feel abandoned and lacking in the future due to the high average age of the inhabitants and an increasing depopulation. Although we are encouraged by the fact that, in this universe of small municipalities, there are so many that in recent years have returned to growth and that show that, if appropriate local and territorial development policies are implemented, these municipalities can have a rosy future. That, then, is how important it is for this country to face a difficult but necessary challenge. Reduce territorial disparities, not only between North and South, but also between metropolitan and suburbs, between urban centres and rural areas. Continuing the illustration of the measure, I quote from Article 9 of the bill, which aims to facilitate the payment of taxes, taxes and taxes and of tariffs for public services provided (water, gas, electricity). It stipulates that in small municipalities the use of the telematic network managed by the dealers of customs agencies and monopolies for the collection and transfer of sums is permitted. In addition, small municipalities are allowed, in agreement with the Region concerned and on the basis of the program contract between the MISE and the universal postal service provider, to propose initiatives to develop the overall supply of postal services, together with other services in specific territorial areas. These areas will be identified taking into account reasons for the efficiency and rationalisation of the provision of services and enhancing the widespread presence of post offices to be pursued also through the restoration of abandoned offices. Finally, small municipalities are allowed to conclude special agreements of agreement with the organizations of category and with the company Poste Italiane SpA, so that payments relating to municipal taxes and postal orders can be made at the commercial offices of Municipalities or fractions not served by the postal service. These municipalities may also entrust the management of treasury and cash services to Poste Italiane SpA. Article 10 provides that the Department of Information and Publishing at the Presidency of the Council of Ministers shall promote the conclusion of an agreement between the Government, National Association of Italian Municipalities (ANCI), the Italian Federation of Journal Publishers and the representatives of the distribution agencies of the daily press in order to take the necessary steps to ensure that the distribution of newspapers is ensured also in small Municipalities. Article 11 stipulates that small municipalities will be able to promote the consumption and marketing of agri-food products from a short chain or a useful kilometre. The latter are those whose place of production, cultivation or breeding of the raw material is situated within 70 kilometres of the selling one and for which a limited contribution of the polluting emissions from the transport is demonstrated. In the invitations to tender issued by small municipalities for the provision of services related to collective catering, the use of these products, including organic products, is a preferential title for the award and, in that case, the use of the products must be properly documented. Article 12 provides that the small municipalities set up specific areas for the realization of agricultural markets for direct sale, on the basis of the experience of the farmer's market, giving priority to the parking places for agricultural products and foodstuffs coming from short supply chains and useful kilometers. Large-scale commercial distribution operations may allocate a percentage of purchases to these products. Finally, the right of farmers to carry out direct sales is guaranteed. Article 13 places the obligation on small municipalities, which must carry out their basic functions in an associated form, by means of unions of municipalities or associations of mountain municipalities, to carry out in an associated form also the programming functions in the field of socio-economic development and those relating to the use of their financial resources. Article 14 provides that every year the Ministry of Cultural Heritage and Activities and Tourism, in agreement with the National Association of Italian Municipalities, Regional Regions and Film Commissions, prepares initiatives aimed at promoting cinema in favour of small Municipalities, also as an instrument of tourist and cultural enhancement, which attaches itself to the measure that we approved last week. Article 15 provides that the President-in-Office of the Council, in agreement with the Minister for Economic Affairs and after agreement at the Unified Conference, shall draw up the plan for education for rural and mountain areas. The plan must have particular reference to the linking of school complexes located in these areas, to computerization and to the progressive digitization of educational and administrative activities. Moreover, it is expected that, within the framework of the general plan of the transports and the logistics and the multiannual documents of planning, specific actions will be identified for the rural and mountain areas, with particular regard to the improvement of the infrastructural networks and the coordination of the services of connection between the municipalities of the rural and mountain areas with the municipalities chief town of Province and Region. Article 16 contains the clause of financial invariance of the measure, with the exception of the greater resources allocated to the Structural, Economic and Social Development Fund of the small municipalities, which amounts to approximately EUR 100 million. Article 17 provides that in respect of the Regions with special statutes and the Autonomous Provinces of Trento and Bolzano, the provisions relating to the measure are applied in accordance with the provisions of the respective Statutes. Mr President, it is clear that the basic spirit of this measure is to outline new policies of defence of a heritage that characterizes the identity of our country; policies that must translate into many concrete projects of recovery, valorization, protection and defence of small municipalities, in the awareness that only through these perspectives can one hope to reverse the slow decline suffered by these communities, without which our Italy would be poorer and without identity; policies that must translate into many concrete projects of recovery, redevelopment and security of buildings, of the defense of the territory, of reorganization and unification of essential services, of valorization of the artistic heritage. With this bill, therefore, we legislators expect a blow that must also come from below, from the territories, from the municipalities, which will now have suitable tools to plan, to put development projects in place that can build new prospects of well-being and attractiveness for these territories. With this measure, therefore, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen (and I conclude), we do not just want to defend an all-Italian history at risk of extinction, a small ancient world, but also to address current and modern issues, ranging from soil protection to the green economy, from the relationship between cities and internal areas to the completion of broadband, which must be unified on national territory. It is, therefore, a deposit of resources that we must value and exploit and that can become an opportunity of growth for our country. It is a step perhaps not decisive, but certainly important to start a strategy of relaunching what President Ciampi called the small, great Italy. [[Applause from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-09-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-885.ana.u12	I declare the general discussion open. Senator Cantini is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-09-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-885.ana.u13	Mr President, the small Italian municipalities, that is, the administrative realities with a population of 5,000 inhabitants, represent about 70% of the Italian municipalities and govern over 55% of the national territory. Only from these two data can we immediately understand the importance and value of these small administrative realities. Italy is made up of small municipalities not very visible, but rich in knowledge and innovation, characterized by a strong cohesion and social identity that is the guardian of ancient traditions and that constitute a resource to protect the territory, especially for the activities of contrasting the hydrogeological failure and for the activities of small and widespread maintenance and protection of the common goods. It is the work of the men and women of these small communities that has allowed to obtain an agricultural and environmental landscape of inestimable value and beauty like the Italian one. These small communities, which often contain the best of manufacturing, agri-food, historical-artistic and intellectual quality, have in recent years resisted the economic-social crisis that has hit Italy and Europe. The toughest crisis since the post-war period has led to the depopulation of small centres for the benefit of large urban poles and, consequently, the progressive abandonment of parts of our country. That is why it is necessary today to provide for legislative instruments to support these communities and, in this sense, it is the rule that we are about to approve. The rule aims to promote the economic, social, environmental and cultural development of small municipalities, to ensure the demographic balance of the country by promoting the residence in them. Let us not forget that those who reside in small centres often do so by choice and, considering the positive benefits that are generated for the community, it is right to provide regulatory instruments to support them. The small municipalities govern 55% of the territory and, in addition to representing a reservoir of biodiversity and maintenance of the territory, represent an extraordinary laboratory of social inclusion and new citizenship. Very often these centres are distinguished by a welfare of proximity made of mutuality between citizens who collaborate with each other to overcome the daily hardships; communities far from closed where inclusion and collaboration are indispensable values. In this direction we want to go the legislative measure that we are discussing, in which small municipalities are considered a resource for Italy of the future and with which measures are envisaged to ensure, to these communities, indispensable services such as health, transport, education and postal services. In order to give a real possibility of development to these centers it is now strategic to think of projects capable of putting in communication small and large centers through modern infrastructures and integrated with the territory. I am talking about networks capable of connecting cities and small villages, historic centres and suburbs; only in this way will we be able to guarantee a model of development in step with modernity, where teleworking is a real possibility in these municipalities. That is why I welcome the funding provided for in this regulation aimed at improving road infrastructure and bringing broadband to these territories as well. I would like to stress that this rule provides, among other things, that the Regions, within the framework of their competences, can define interventions further than those provided for by the law for the attainment of the objectives indicated. In this sense, I hope that, as many regions are already doing, the others will also act first in this direction. In conclusion, the rule in our examination is important not only because it provides for a broad economic allocation, but also because it establishes for the first time the importance of the role of small municipalities in the system of our country. It is a measure that puts small communities at the center of development, allowing them to continue to carry out the best work of guardians of the Italian cultural and environmental heritage. [[Applause from the PD Group and Senator Mancuso]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-09-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-885.ana.u14	He's enlisted to speak Senator Candiani. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-09-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-885.ana.u15	Mr President, the measure before us comes to the Senate after unanimous approval of the House of Deputies. And that's quite rare. Even if it is a pity that it arrives at the end of the legislature, it is however an important passage, which also sheds light on one of the characteristics of our country: the municipal presence on a very rich territory, which has an important history to defend. Mr President, I was pleased to see in the measure the many opportunities offered to the municipalities, from the recovery of historic centers, going to acquire old and abandoned buildings. And we all know how much, especially in the smaller municipalities, the abandonment or the passing of generation and the emigration of its inhabitants have led to a depopulation that, in most cases, corresponds also to a fate of the historical centers. Where there are no resources of any higher institution, and there are no special opportunities to recover such centers, the country is doomed to die. Instead, there are opportunities in the law to reactivate communication systems as well and to guarantee citizens living in small municipalities the media. I also think of the difficulty to obtain: when he closes the only shop in the municipality, there are no alternatives but to make several kilometers or, in some cases, even give up his standard of living and emigrate. I remember these circumstances in the Lombard valleys, going up towards the mountain. I think of my province of Varese, when you go up to Valcuvia. I think of Rancio Valcuvia, Cunardo and other small municipalities that are located in the high Varesotto: if in these centers it closes the only shop present, the inhabitants have to travel tens of kilometers to find another one. And the same conditions I found in Valnerina. I think of all the beautiful areas of the Umbrian villages, which have the difficulty to remain attractive for those who live there, outside the tourist season, and it is therefore difficult to stay there all year round. They are villages in which all of us go to spend beautiful days; what is different is to live there all year round, giving up also services. In the text of the measure, for example, I find communication opportunities for broadband. Mr President, you are well aware of the experience you have had in recent days, going to Castelluccio di Norcia. We have travelled dozens and dozens of kilometers without Internet network and without even telephone communication, entire valleys totally excluded from communication. Asking the populations of those lands to stay there to live, especially the new generations, is a very difficult task compared to the comforts and the easy opportunities offered by the large urban centers. There are opportunities for trade, linked to the short supply chain on agriculture and education. We know how difficult it is in small realities to form classes. The same shift of students from one municipality to another is often too costly for families and, therefore, prefers to move. All this to say that my Group can only support this measure, as has been done by the League in the House. There is, however, some extravagance that needs to be highlighted. The main one, Mr President, is the scarcity of resources involved in the measure. I note that 100 million euros, put in this way, seem to be a huge number, a challenging figure even if only to be pronounced: however, it is 100 million euros divided into seven years for about 5.583 municipalities, which correspond, more or less (for the ten million inhabitants involved), to 1.40 euros per year per inhabitant for each of the municipalities or, if we want to add them over the seven years, to about 10 euros per inhabitant. It is, therefore, an inezia. If a Municipality is given the tools to be able to proceed also to plans of acquisition of the real estate, we speak of several tens of million euros for each Municipality. If we talk about resources, the resources must be in the measure. And I turn to the government representative, who I still see distracted. She's obviously not interested, but hopefully not. Seriously, resources must be involved in this measure, because it remains a formally impeccable bill, but it is essentially likely to be, as it is at present, a list of wishes that does not go beyond the statement of wishes. In this regard, I would like to refer to another fact which I shall never forget, which happened last year, following the earthquake in this House, namely the quirky curtain between the then President of the Council, Matteo Renzi, and the - I still believe - life-senator (although certainly not present among us) Renzo Piano. The latter came to this House and described to us the home floor, the reconstruction of all the small villages, especially those of the Apennines dorsal, which are unfortunately subject to seismic phenomena and to be destroyed. We were told, in that circumstance, that many resources would be made available, for tens of billions, because we had to rebuild all our cities, and especially the smaller villages, which are the ones most subject to depopulation and degradation, which, if they were to be hit by an earthquake - as we have seen in recent days - would hardly be inhabited and repopulated, if not rebuilt to art. What then is 100 million, if you have tens of billions available for the implementation of the home plan? The real doubt that raises me is that those tens of billions for the home floor are not there and you cannot go beyond a statement of principle on which - for goodness' sake - everyone agrees. However, there is yet another extravagance that I would like to highlight, Mr President. There are draft laws presented by senators and MPs of the Democratic Party who express, instead, the will to strike the small municipalities, which are seen as small, ugly and disgusting and, therefore, to be eliminated and aggregated among them. What, then, does this have to do with what is written in this provision? Personally, like my political side, I have always defended the local identities, which are the ones that characterize us, but at this point I put a further reflection that goes beyond the measure. Do you understand, once again, that closing small municipalities means eliminating a territorial garrison? Do you want to understand that making aggregations of four or five municipalities to put together 5,000 or 6,000 inhabitants, then forcing them to travel tens of kilometers to reach the capital of the future municipality, does not mean a saving of expenditure, but on the contrary cancellation of identity? It means going to eliminate the territorial and local identities that characterize us and of which we are so proud and proud when the Minister of Culture goes abroad to promote the Italy of the villages. This Italy of the villages, however, has its own identity that must be defended and it is not the tens - certainly not hundreds - of euros of a city council to make the difference in the state budget. Rather, if you have to reason, do so seriously on the aggregation of the great Municipalities. I think of everything that should have been the reform of the metropolitan cities, which did not really work out. To attach a municipality of 100,000 inhabitants to a large city of one million inhabitants can have a much greater significance, in terms of saving resources, than to aggregate five municipalities of 200 inhabitants in a single municipality of 1,000, making it suffer a great discomfort to its citizens. This tells us, Mr President, that this is a good measure in principle, but it must contain resources, without which we do not go anywhere. This bill, which reaches the end of the legislature, risks remaining a measure that, beyond declarations of intent, ends up running out of time. It must be remembered that this year there are ten million funds allocated to current expenditure, but we are now practically at the end of the year and therefore they will not be spent. There are planned calls and systems to be activated so that the resources are not given in rain and indiscriminately, but after careful evaluation of the projects. If not, we will find ourselves with these few resources even absorbed by some privileged municipality, because in the good sleeve of someone who is in government, leaving all the other municipalities dry, who will not even see the famous 1.40 euros per inhabitant. We would also like to see a revision of the system of the Provinces in this draft law, which unfortunately has remained languishing, killed by the so-called Delrio reform, which has not even led to greater autonomy and responsibility on the part of the municipalities. I mean, good principles, but in fact, without giving, you don't go anywhere. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-09-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-885.ana.u16	She's enlisted to speak Senator Puppato. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-09-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-885.ana.u17	Mr President, first of all I would like to thank the rapporteurs and my fellow Members of the various committees who have worked on this draft law, which I personally dare to define, for the enormous and incredible potential it has, one of the most important measures that we are able to adopt during the current parliamentary term. I would like to take the credit for the strong innovative capacity that the bill manages to put in place. First of all, it must be said that the measure concerns 5,500 Italian municipalities. We are talking about 70 percent of the total of Italian municipalities - an impressive amount of municipalities - or about 10 of the 60 million inhabitants of this country. It is not only the smallest regions such as Molise and Valle d'Aosta that have municipalities with less than 5,000 inhabitants. Inside the grid we have indicated the municipalities in residential decline, in hydrogeological failure and inside the parks. Therefore, we have identified the quantity and quality of the municipalities that have access to the relatively scarce funding, as Senator Candiani said. I would like to focus specifically on funding, because I believe that there are some very important things to say. There are not only direct funding, but also the many indirect funding. The draft law under consideration takes on a number of priorities, including - and I quote two for all - broadband. There is an absolute priority for small municipalities, particularly in the mountains, to access funding related to the national broadband strategy. I am also thinking of the public bans on collective catering, in relation to which priority is given to municipalities with farms so-called zero kilometres or close, that is - to put it in the words used by my colleagues Mancuso and Vaccari - less than 70 kilometres away. It is therefore a measure that, precisely because of its potential, I dare to define a framework law on small Italian municipalities. The first issue I would like to focus on concerns the objectives. In order to be able to restore quality of life, environmental and social in small municipalities, one can only start from the need to offer services. It seems clear to me that the objective of filling the gap in existing services is pursued by the draft law, highlighting the inadequacy of many social services in such restricted municipal areas. Senator Candiani has a good saying in emphasizing his being in favor of identity. I think that when municipalities come together - the bill specifies this - they make an intervention not only of extreme administrative intelligence, but also of great rationality, because they manage to offer more, guaranteeing their citizens. In fact, it is clear that municipalities with 200 or 500 inhabitants cannot expect to be able to guarantee social services such as those that are often needed in those municipalities where the housing age is normally much higher than the Italian average, because - we know - the depopulation has affected them directly. So the settlement inconvenience, the old age index, the presence of parks, the gaps in social services and the overall inadequacy of services are the focus of the bill under consideration. And there are many opportunities, which I do not want to read, because they have already been very well defined by the two rapporteurs before me and by the Members who have spoken. However, I quote - for example - the theme of multifunctional centres, whose creation, with plurality of services of an environmental, social, energy, communicative and security nature, for the energy redevelopment of the present buildings or for the static and anti-seismic consolidation, allows to offer publicly and free skills that is needed in this area. It also seems to me very interesting to be able to manage the woods sustainably. We are talking about a natural area which also falls within the scope of the draft law, which - as I have already said - are endless. The same applies to the recovery of cantonal homes, railway stations and old or decaying buildings. Even the realization of popular hotels creates a great opportunity in the hilly and mountain municipalities - and not only - where we have many abandoned buildings and the potential to offer them to an increasingly important demand, coming from international and local tourism. Finally, I would like to highlight two further points. First of all, they serve mayors with ideas to draw on a very wide spectrum of opportunities. It is true that we have an economic value put in place by the Government of 10 million euros for this year and of 15 for the next one: if we consider that we have 10 million inhabitants, someone could ironize that it is only one and a half euros per person. However, be careful: if this measure finds municipalities capable of teaming up - and here, as happens for European projects, which are the ones that are giving the highest yields, there is the possibility of putting together public and private, which is another great thing, even to recover buildings of cult or ecclesial abandoned - again in this case the State, thanks to the activation of the Municipalities and Regions, can be an important partner in order to create economic solidity in territories that do not have it and thus create the model of European union. The other issue relates to the rapidity: we have one hundred and eighty days, despite all the ministries involved, to create the National Plan for the Redevelopment of Small Municipalities. Then there is a fundamental element, and that is why I say that money is not everything and, in this case, it is even little compared to the objectives. Article 1, paragraph 1, paragraph 5, says something that I consider to be fundamental and that I am happy to have been included in the draft law: let's go to monitor and collect the relative data, indicative of the improvements achieved. And we have done the same for the eco-reactors, which we are monitoring with particular reference to quality; we have done the same for other fundamental subjects, such as good school, in relation to school buildings, with reference to which we have continuous monitoring of the enormous amount of projects activated. Similarly, this bill aims - and this is the fundamental aspect - not so much to put money there, so many or so few that are, that matter little, but to monitor how its enormous potential is developed and accepted by the mayors and municipal administrations of the small municipalities. That is why I have reiterated that we need capable and innovative mayors who, even in small municipalities, put the imagination into play, because the opportunities will not be lacking now. [[Applause from the PD Group and Senator Mancuso.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-09-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-885.ana.u18	He is enlisted to speak Senator Divine. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-09-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-885.ana.u19	Mr President, I would like to pick up where my colleague ended up. Actually it takes a lot of imagination because, to use a rule that we can define only in principle that leaves everyone relatively on foot, it takes a lot, a lot of imagination. I would point out - as Mr Candiani said - that we can only agree on a measure such as this which finally arrives after years. I remember that for twenty-five years the League has proposed measures relating to the same subject and asks attention on the problems of small and micro Italian municipalities. So, you can't help but agree. We try, however, to point out something, otherwise we risk - as always - issuing rules that will remain beautiful declarations of intent, with the total inability to solve the problem in any way. As you have already said, this is a measure that could affect 70 percent of Italian municipalities, which are below the threshold of 5,000 inhabitants. Those who speak to you live in an even more pulverized reality, where 88 percent of the municipalities are under 5,000 inhabitants. For Trentino-Alto Adige and for other orographical realities very similar to ours, we are talking about the survival of a social system, because, apart from those of the valley floor, almost all the municipalities need the utmost attention. We would not like today the most virtuous municipalities, the Provinces and the Regions that have been careful to the problem to find themselves penalized, because - let me say - those who have been good and have already faced the problem, with the parameters that are fixed in law, could be penalized, finding themselves in situations perhaps a little better than those of other municipalities. I would like to make another point about the mountain municipalities: when defining the types of municipalities for access to finance, one of the points included in the measure is the difficulty of communication, that is, the distance from the large urban centres. I would point out that distance is not a significant parameter, because 50 kilometers at the level of the plain are probably little - it can mean twenty minutes, half an hour by car - while 50 kilometers in rough areas, in the mountains, with adverse climatic conditions, maybe in winter with abundant snowfalls, become an impossible distance. When the rationalization of the hospital system was carried out - for example - and the birth points and hospitals that were under certain standards were closed, the result was that essential services were removed in the mountains precisely because the distance justified the choice to close them. As I repeat, however, the distance in certain geographical situations does not mean anything: we should rather consider the journey times in order to arrive, in case in hypothesis, at the hospital. We have set standards based on exquisitely political assessments. Under certain standards, the Ministry of Education has established that the school must be rationalised, one must move an plexus from one municipality to another, and so for all social services such as kindergartens, nursery schools and so on. What did it mean to standardize with a national standard? In the mountains, small towns, small municipalities, small realities, in an instant descend below the threshold of such standards. To remove primary school and kindergarten in these centres means that a couple of young people cannot stay and move immediately, because remaining would mean suffering an environmental discomfort for them first of all, but also for the children who will be born and who will be tossed and carried around according to the ability of the municipalities to manage the transport service. This means the depopulation of those municipalities; young couples take themselves to the most important municipalities or to the valley floor, where there are services. It lacks the population, lacks internal demand and even commercial activities do not make it; the small shop that lived with difficulty ends up closing. They close commercial activities and remain four old, no longer in working and working age; the mountain changes size, changes appearance. Those four elders, at this point, must be helped, almost as when there are great snowfalls in winter and we must bring the food and bales of hay, in the supply stations, deer and roe deer, because otherwise there would be a death and we would count the carcasses in the following spring. Well: we will have to bring social services to maintain a population that does not even have the ability to move and move with ease, but that depends on the children and relatives, that is, on someone who brings them what they no longer find in the places where they live. The mountain impoverishes and weakens. Let's remember that those who live in the mountains mostly, beyond agricultural activity, live also in image, live in tourism and environment. But, if people are not there, even the postcard changes, the attractiveness changes; there is no more economic and tourist activity. It is a chain that we are going to weaken and we have seen the results: depopulation in many mountain municipalities and so on. Then we have to go backwards. We cannot miss the services, even if they no longer meet the cost standards - wrong - parametted on indices that can be good for other environments, but not for mountain ones, not for small municipalities, mostly in the mountains. I come to another example. We say that the municipalities can promote a number of essential services, including postal services. Clearly, we agree. But how do we reconcile all this with the norms just issued on the total custody to the concessionaire Poste Italiane SpA, that has decided the rationalization of the post offices, closing all those who for him are not economically convenient? I can understand that Poste makes an accountant's speech, but politics can't do it. If the four old people who still live in the mountains can't even go to retire - the post office eventually serves to pay the bills, to withdraw the pension and for a little more - then let's agree. We cannot grant Poste Italiane total autonomy to open and close offices, if we then have to tell the municipalities to open a post office for themselves, because this is vital for their community. Let us move on: small municipalities can also set up multifunctional centres for the provision of a plurality of services. Vivadio: Let's stop. We don't let the public do what they can't do. Are the private people dying and we're opening the city services center? Instead, we help individuals who know how to serve, trade and other things, to stand with their legs. As Senator Candiani recalled and as you have also remembered, here you want to make a wedding with dried figs: 10 million, which will become in the following years 15 million per year. It is very interesting to say that the municipalities can buy real estate and retrain them, to counter abandonment. One of the most important things is the abandonment of the tourist system: the hotel does not make it and closes. But, if we have 10 million or at most 15 million a year, how many hotels can we buy, acquire and value to keep a little more economy on the territories? I repeat: 10 or 15 million a year. We could buy one or two facilities. But we're talking about a law that affects 5,600 small municipalities. We cannot say that we solve the problem of over 5,000 municipalities by making a one-off investment, which virtually clears the fund. If we really want the law to stand, we must put the resources that make this law work; otherwise we have made a beautiful law that we all share, but with principles that remain exclusively on paper. Mr President, allow me just a few more minutes before I finish. I will say an aberration, now, which contrasts with everything I have said so far: there is no need for money: to keep communities in the mountains and small municipalities, there would be no need for money either, but action is needed. And over time, the League has put forward countless proposals for tax relief and simplification. A small activity in the mountains has more costs for the management of the tax than useful at the end of the year. Let's cancel the costs: they were called tax agreements. If a shop ends up under certain parameters, we tell him that he does a social service, and no longer an economic activity, because the bread shop or the grocery shop are essential for the community to live. You must throw away the VAT register and the fee register and save with the accountant. Good to go in the sense of finance, agree and pay 1,000-2,000 euros a year, which is the equivalent of its tax obligation, and you cancel all costs. So we can allow economic activities not to close, without spending a euro. Most farmers, farmers and farmers live in the mountains and are struggling. It is one thing to do agriculture in the plain, where there are large areas and great spending optimizations, and another is to do it on the steps, where the product is less, the fatigue is greater, the costs are far higher and the prices are sometimes not profitable. Let us hope that these activities do not have to end, but there are so many that they no longer make it. What are peasants? They're little DIYs. We can tell them: Even if you are not registered in companies that can do big jobs, you can do small road maintenance, such as water reimaging on forest roads.These are small canals that take water away, prevent the scrolls from destroying the roads and anything else. A stone wall, mostly dry, can do it even the farmer: he does it at his home and he could do it for the community. With regard to the clearing of the snow, all farmers have a tractor and take the snow away from the production areas. Then commission him to clean up the mountain roads. Let us help them to supplement that income which is insufficient today. The cost is zero and we would probably also save compared to the custody and procurement of these small jobs to specialized firms. How much can all these operations cost? Zero. Good will, simplification and - I add - tax relief. I finish my speech with an anecdote, because it says: With one hand I help them, but with the other I kill them. The anecdote is about a farmer who ran the hut. Officials have arrived, who do their work, and, in relation to the parameters laid down by European legislation and whatever else, have blocked the activity of a cheesemaker, because the place where cheese was made did not meet the requirements of European legislation, namely tiling up to 2.20 meters in height. The farmer closed the hut and told me that they would not put the tiles at 2.20 meters high because the provincial law, which repeats the European regulations, tells him, does not want to demolish the roof to let you out 20 centimeters of tiles above. I think we understand each other. If we want to help, let us try to make reasonable laws that take into account the context in which they will be applied. If we want to apply these rules, let us finance them. Let us remember, however, that perhaps it is more important to tax and simplify than throwing money, and then we say to them: If not, I won't let you make cheese, because you don't have tiles up to 2.20 meters high. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group and Senator Mussini]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-09-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-885.ana.u20	She's enlisted to speak Senator Pezzopane. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-09-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-885.ana.u21	Mr President, at last, almost a year after the House of Deputies' approval, this important bill arrives here in the Senate. I would like to thank the rapporteurs, the President of the Commission and all those who have worked hard to get here and, above all, the Members of the House who have entered into this debate. It is an important measure, with a strong symbolic charge, but also with concrete rules. It will certainly be insufficient. In the meantime, however, we begin. Others, before us, could have done so and did not. It comes, moreover, a year after a dramatic earthquake that hit just a part of Appennino formed by a myriad of small municipalities. The bill allocates a hundred million, which will then increase over the years, and aims to raise the fate of the small municipalities with less than 5,000 inhabitants. As has already been said - and I repeat - only 5.585 municipalities, equal to 70% of the total number of municipalities present on Italian territory; over 10 million Italian citizens who, however, despite the difficulties, continue to reside in these territories. It is a much awaited law, it is an opportunity for Italy, it has a strong innovation and it is in contrast to policies of other governments, punitive towards small realities. Behind this initiative there is a strong thought, which comes from afar, that has seen generations of young people, intellectuals and environmentalists question the future of these territories; that has seen myriads of mayors, over the years, engage and mobilize. I have fought for years against the abandonment, closure of the territorial garrisons, the mortification of the territories and the mortification of a thousand-year history, that precisely there, in the small municipalities, especially in our mountains, is concentrated. I promoted, precisely as a regional administrator, with Legambiente, with Ermete Realacci and with colleagues who are here today in the Senate and who then had administrative roles, the project of Appennino Park of Europe, so that mountains and small centres would become an area of experimentation for a new development. For this reason today I am doubly happy, as a senator of the Democratic Party - a party that says and does things to her - and as a woman of the Apennines, who can come back to hope, and as a person who comes from a land, precisely, of small Municipalities. There is an idea of development that focuses on territories and communities, which combines history, culture, traditional knowledge with innovation and new technologies, the green economy. It is a law, this, that will help Italy to be stronger and more united. The measure comes from a proposal of law by Ermete Realacci who, during the examination in Montecitorio, was then unified to other law and arrived here in the Senate. The importance of the small municipalities was also seen in the earthquake, with the fundamental role for the keeping of the communities carried out precisely by the municipalities. Our small municipalities therefore administer an important part of the national territory. They are not a legacy of the past, but an extraordinary opportunity to defend our identity, our specialties and project them into the future. The bill for the valorization of small municipalities provides a real national plan for the redevelopment of villages with less than 5.000 inhabitants. It also proposes measures to promote the spread of broadband, more efficient services, mobility routes and sweet tourism. I am thinking precisely of the fact that today in Campotosto, the epicenter of recent earthquakes, starts the itinerary of the Tratturo Magno. Then there is the promotion of agricultural and agri-food productions in short supply chains. In addition, the measure introduces simplifications for the recovery of abandoned historic centers. It provides land maintenance works with priority to environmental protection, safety of roads and schools, energy efficiency of the building heritage. Small municipalities will also be able to acquire cantoniere houses and sections of abandoned railways to be made available for civil protection activities, volunteering, promotion of local products and tourism. It is, therefore, an important law to put these realities in a position to be not a burden, a ballast for our country, but an extraordinary occasion. There are many measures envisaged, also mentioned by the rapporteurs: there is the possibility of registering the birth of a child in the municipality of residence even if the birth takes place elsewhere (it seems little, but it is important), to ensure the quality and presence of the essential services such as health, transport and education. Important is also the prediction of the recovery of historical paths: resources are allocated precisely to connect the small municipalities on these ancient and historical paths; there are, then, the recovery of the villages, with anti-seismic interventions, and various measures to support the typical local products, such as direct sale within commercial points, the incentive of the short chain and the valorization of the pastoral activities of the mountain. The historical objective is to curb the demographic and economic hardship that affects over 2,000 small municipalities under 5,000 inhabitants, from which young people tend to leave and abandoned or empty houses are even one every three. The small municipalities hold, among other things, the large part of the biodiversity heritage of agri-food. It is cultivated more than half of the national agri-food production that has made Made in Italy famous in the world, thanks to the presence of over 300,000 agricultural companies. Three small municipalities out of four are the land of reference for farms destined for important productions with a protected designation of origin (PDO), while in 60 percent of the villages are the olive groves from which are obtained the precious Italian oils with a protected designation of origin. But many, even in Abruzzo, are the real jewels of typical productions and sometimes the names of the municipalities are associated with those of the typical products. It is worth remembering, precisely for the things that have been said, that the process of the law has been very complicated and that other legislators have not had the strength to conclude it. The first bill is from 2001 and from 2001 to 2017 governments of other political and other realities have passed in this country, but they did not want or could not carry out this initiative. This is, therefore, an advantage, a great opportunity, a novelty that we can boast about. The bill was signed, on the various occasions on which it was presented, by parliamentarians of every political part and Ermete Realacci was the conductor, then, of this battle, today become common and even claimed by those who opposed it. Anyway, we got there and we got there well. The House unanimously approved the text and certainly on this occasion we will reiterate that unanimous consensus. In short, things are different in Italy than in the past. Today is a beautiful day, I am proud of our work and I thank all those who have tried. I am thinking above all of local administrators, mayors, citizens of those countries, to whom we owe not only the approval of this law, but also a special commitment, in the aftermath of the adoption of the law, to establish concrete active policies to curb depopulation and the abandonment of the territory. It will benefit all Italy, even the metropolitan areas, which often consider these realities of zavorre and then maybe see their inhabitants spend the weekend there in peace and serenity. With this measure we unite precisely these realities that seem, apparently, in conflict: the metropolitan areas will be more cohesive to the marginal areas and small municipalities in difficulty, for the good of Italy, whole and united. [[Applause from the PD and AP-CpE-NCD groups. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-09-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-885.ana.u22	Senator Morra is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-09-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-885.ana.u23	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, let me say that waiting for four legislation to protect the living conditions of 5.585 small Italian municipalities is shameful. Let me also add that it is not simply a matter of numbers. In fact, Italy - and here I correct a little who preceded me - has their foundation in that biodiversity that wanted to offer in our territory, even from a geographical, demographic and anthropological point of view, a picture, a kaleidoscope, of the differences of socio-productive and relational systems that have made our country something unique in the world. Waiting for five legislatures to obtain a law to protect these realities is something shameful that falls on the political forces that have decided, being majority in the previous parliaments, to forget all this. And let me add a figure. If it is true that we curse earthquakes every year and Senator Pezzopane remembered that last year we were all committed to face the umpteenth earthquake that had particularly damaged Central Italy, if it is true that every year we have to cope with floods, overflows, and floods, landslides and landslides that have a cost, even before economic, in terms of human lives, of damage to the environment and of damaged emotions, then all this is the responsibility of those who were to govern the territory and it has been screwed. I say this because the processes of urbanization of the Italian population must not be simply suffered and should not be governed either, but must be hindered when they are absolutely dissensionate. Let us then become aware, as many anthropologists, many demographers and geographers have said, that a population concentrated above all on particularly substantial urban realities is a damage to the environment all and to the population itself in terms of quality of life, if it is true that we all fill the mouth of those small villages where, as Senator Pezzopane said, we have to spend the weekends. But why do we have to spend the weekend? And then, excuse me, why not recover the tradition of our language: why not spend the weekend there? Or, I add, why not live in it permanently? This depends on politics, because if you abandon those small centres and therefore undermine the survival of essential services, then your responsibility as a government force is there. Then I ask everyone a question. Italy is a country that contemplates within it, especially in the North, a relevant plain that we all know and who presides belongs to a political force that Padania has made its symbolic epicenter, but Italy is above all mountain and hill, which has been anthropized over time with difficulties. Before the Divine Senator, who now lacks, referred, for example, to the terraces with which generations of peasants have subjected to the agriculture of man gorges, valleys and territories however steep and impervious, obtaining productions of excellent level and quality and this both to the South, and to the Center, and to the North. After the Second World War, we followed some consumeristic and American myths instead of our reference civilization, which was essentially a peasant unity, in which community values were fundamental and in which - I remember Senator Puppato's words - mutuality was lived value and not a reference at the credit institution. I would like to open a parenthesis here: if we only put half of half the half of the resources that have been used to favour banks on small municipalities, perhaps we would have a different Italy! [[Applause from the M5S Group]] But this is a fact, let's say, "unimportant." Now, rapporteur, it is true that the municipalities concerned by this measure are 5.585, but it is equally true that Italy is made up of about 8,000 municipalities and that, therefore, in terms of centres that retain their identity, their history and their proposal as a ratio to survive even in the 21st, XXII and XXIII centuries, there is a lot and if we accept, for example, that there is a devaluation of the real estate of these small villages, hit by an absolutely irrational and unfair taxation, we decree the end of those centres. And then this was a central measure, even more than the various laws that come and in four and four eight are approved because you have to bring hay to the farm parties and we all remember what I refer to: for example, to the so-called Boccadutri, the legging that allowed the parties to bring into the cashier immediately, cash, over forty million euros. Even about forty million euros immediately, when those who preceded me reminded me that this measure allocates over the years, not immediately, 100 million euros. A huge amount! If we consider that the state budget reaches figures of around 830-840 billion euros a year, we understand that 100 million are just, let me say, the attention that is due to the scumbags, because those who have the courage, like so many Piedmontese, like so many Calabrians and so many Molise, to live still in those realities is simply a resistant, even a resilient, in the face of your continuous thinking about something else. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] Because these citizens are obviously B-series, C-series and D-series Italians. We cannot, of course, back down on all these issues and therefore vote in favour of the measure because it is finally something. And it is something - and here I do a notation of merit and method - also because in the House, where the provision is incardinated, it was decided by the relative majority party to dialogue with the opposition force that they are here to represent. The basic text, proposed by the deputy Realacci, incorporates important parts of another bill promoted in particular by Patrizia Terzoni as the first signatory and by the Movement 5 Stars everything. Through a dialogue that has been difficult, but still constructive, something has been understood, but "something" is still very little compared to what those Italians must rightly be recognized. In fact, as Franco Arminio, the one who gave birth to the landscape, we must not allow that after retirement, who has lived all his best years in Rome, Florence or in some other great urban reality, can go to recover the quality of life in the Province of Sondrio, Cosenza or Caltanissetta, maybe in a village that offers as immense values, for example, the quality of bread or the extraordinary suggestion of a landscape. Sometimes, when you look at nature, without bothering the big ones, you regenerate yourself. And certainly this ability does not offer it the great metropolis or megalopolis: in case, that one offers some mesothelioma, some cancer problem related to the pollution in which you are forced to live. Reaffirming Arminio's words, we would like to see life styles promoted in this country so that one does not end one's existence in the small village, but all one's life is accompanied in those streets, in those places, in those places that have allowed, for example, one of the greatest masters of Italian poetry, Giacomo Leopardi (yesterdays in this House we remembered the greats of our culture) to make universal villages that could otherwise be known only by those who lived there. But that is a problem of mental attitude, culture and mentality. And what mind do you have, if only and only promote the construction of shopping centers? Why was a mayor of Forza Italia arrested yesterday? Simply because it had favored the umpteenth commercial center that indirectly facilitates the emptying of the valleys, the hills and the mountains in order to favor those who are in the plain and this is the policy that you, disembodiedly and in a way also functional to certain corrupting logics, have wanted to realize in these last decades. If the country wants to reverse the trend it must, for example, focus on the mountain, on the hill, on these realities for the prevention of the hydrogeological failure and for a revival of productive activities realized with creativity, with imagination, because the mastery of a master stuffer or a luthier no robot, no 3D printer can guarantee it. However, to do this is not enough 100 million: this is the beginning and the next challenge of the next parliaments will be to hinder the Boccadutric laws and to favor laws that also have as their first signatory a representative not of the 5 Star Movement, but that has at heart the real needs and rights of the Italians. [[Applause from the M5S Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-09-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-885.ana.u24	She is registered to speak Senator Saggese. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-09-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-885.ana.u25	Mr President, I too join the choir of my previous colleagues in the Democratic Party, because I live in a small municipality in the hinterland of the South, although I have not yet reached the retirement age and therefore I would like to stress the importance of the draft law under consideration, which places a complete change of pace compared to what has been done in the past (or rather not done) for these areas. It is a small step to enhance small realities, to improve living conditions in these areas, finally acquiring awareness of the resources and potential that our internal areas have, as has been said, from all points of view (cultural, social, environmental and typical local productions). So, at last, the smaller centres are at the centre of the political debate, after they have remained too long on the margins of the public debate. From here we highlight the investments and opportunities offered to the internal areas precisely in order to avoid that frequent and constant phenomenon that is abandonment, with everything that follows in terms of the quality and quantity of the services essential for the citizens. We have already said that out of 8,000 Italian municipalities 6,000 have a population of less than 5,000 inhabitants, so we are addressing a very important part of our country. The approximately 6,000 municipalities below the 5,000 inhabitants are not only a numerical priority, but represent, within the national framework, a very important and dynamic reality, from a wide range of points of view. In recent years, however, we have seen a steady decline in the resources made available to these small municipalities, both because of cuts in state transfers and because of constant migration, which unfortunately has led not only to economic weakening, but above all, and much more dramatically, to impoverishing the social fabric. There are many cases where essential services (e.g. post office, health care, school) are not guaranteed and guaranteed in small municipalities, because often in the past years a simple economic logic of drastic cuts and cost reduction has been adopted, without thinking about the difficulties and the greater needs that these municipalities have precisely because of the discomfort in which they live. I would add, moreover, that, on the contrary, the balanced distribution of the population on the national territory guarantees the entire social and cultural system of the Country, not only for the benefit and benefit of these small realities and I refer, in particular, to the issues already raised of the maintenance of the territory and the heritage, the great contribution that these municipalities can bring to the balance of the Country. The objective that this bill sets itself, therefore, is certainly appreciable. It certainly comes a little late, but it finally arrives, and it arrives in this legislature and it is added to the other measures that have been put in place during this period in favour of these small realities and the construction of a system that aims to create conditions so that our young people can continue to live dignifiedly in the small countries and places where they were born. I think that the epochal change of this bill lies precisely in the acquisition of awareness of the importance of this passage. The establishment of the fund, which may be few in resources, is a good thing, but it is a first step. This is how we begin to facilitate the economic and commercial initiatives of the small entrepreneurs who live in those municipalities and who very often are really overwhelmed and suffocated. Even the private initiative of the boy who lives in the inner area of a small municipality is often suffocated by the endless bureaucratic procedures and by having to untangle himself in very complicated conditions. It is important to highlight, among the priorities that the fund envisages, also the recovery and urban redevelopment of historic centres, land and abandoned buildings. Some have raised the problem of abandoning the building stock, because unfortunately people are no longer there, apart from the issue of road infrastructure, because accessibility often represents a real obstacle in these small realities. At last a signal is given for the return to the mountain: I would like to remember how someone, despite having spoken of the importance of the mountain and its difficulties, when it was majority power and government made cuts to the mountain law. It was this Parliament, with the past law of stability, that finally refinanced the mountain fund. The attention paid to these small realities is marked by relaunching also the rural economy, enhancing and promoting our territory and all its excellences, the diversity of our small and beautiful Italy. The greatest strength for small municipalities will not therefore derive from artificial operations, but will be able to derive from a renewed awareness of their own possibilities and dignity, which also means valorization of their own history and traditions. The rebirth of the territories cannot come from acquiescence to budgetary policies that favour the large centres, but only from a new investment in terms of energy, to put as much as possible at the service of virtuous processes of programmatic and participatory growth. Finally, one last small note: the small municipalities are numerous, if compared to the whole of the local authorities existing in our country, and constitute the typical articulation of our South Centre, an area that has been strongly affected by the crisis of recent years, which needs special attention in order to be able to start again and become a motor of regrowth. The draft law under consideration is another important sign in this direction. I therefore hope that no further time will be wasted, but that, on the contrary, our time will be used to approve the measure as quickly as possible. [[Applause from the PD Group and Senator Mancuso]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-09-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-885.ana.u26	She is registered to speak Senator Fasiolo. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-09-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-885.ana.u27	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the draft law before us is very constructive, qualifying and very generative. It is a measure that has its roots - as has been said in the many speeches of my previous colleagues - in the history of the country and its peculiarity, also dictated by the number of local authorities. This peculiarity is undoubtedly constituted by the numerically very important presence of municipalities of small and very small size, some of which also located on small islands, which brings the total number of local authorities to more than 8,000 throughout the national territory. This number consists, for at least 70 percent, of municipalities with a population of up to 5,000 inhabitants. Such an atomized organization can easily be said to be anachronistic due to the insustainability of many Italian municipalities of the provision of services, due to the reduced dimension, often only demographic and not territorial, of the Municipality, which, in practice, results in an insignificance of resources in the face of ever increasing needs and an inadequacy of the municipal structures in dealing with the multiple and multisectoral legal obligations, ever greater, both in existence and in becoming. In order to address these problems, the path of rationalization of local authorities has pushed, pushed and is pushing towards intercommunal territorial mergers and unions. It is right that this should be the case in order to bring together services and resources between municipalities. Friuli-Venezia Giulia, my Region, is experimenting, not without problems and necessity of correctives, the intermunicipal territorial unions (UTI). The contents of the measure, however, do not address the issue of the reorganization of the local authority, but intervene in the defense and valorization of the territories and communities of the small municipalities, who want and must maintain their peculiarities and do not renounce them, neither in part, nor in full, and not only in a logic of survival, but in a logic of revival. We look to the protection of those territories and communities that risk closing due to the abandonment of housing for occupational transfers (our mountain areas know something about it, with their migrants in the world), as a result of hydrogeological disruptions, as a result of earthquakes (we also know something about it here), or for the withdrawal in those territories of the presence of the State (houses, military and police garrisons, railway stations, cantonal houses) to which we are giving answers with this Government. (at 11.15 a.m.) (Follow-up). Compared to the loss, in the past, of the subsidiary government of the territories, today we need more and this is what the bill has strongly wanted: we need new sap and support, small but important aid, thanks to the great funding that is provided here, through which to revive the repopulation of these areas and of these communities that want to remain such and do not intend to resign themselves to becoming abandoned territories and atomic communities in the process of extinction. Therefore, support and retraining are required for these municipalities: soil protection, green economy, measures to combat abandonment and support also the needs of school construction. Here, therefore, is the ratio of the National Plan referred to in Article 3 of the measure, which provides for significant funds, to be reviewed annually, for retraining. Article 3 contains a list of priority actions which must aim at redevelopment and maintenance of the territory, the security of infrastructure and public buildings (with particular reference, as was very well said by my colleague Pezzopane, schools and buildings with socio-assistance functions), as well as in the context of energy efficiency policies and renewable sources (the philosophy of the green economy, precisely), the acquisition and redevelopment of abandoned land and buildings, railway sediments and so on. Far from considering this aid as a mere instrument of state welfare, the communities of the small municipalities subject to the measure will have to play their part. In relation to the policies of institutional reorganization parallel to the measure, small local communities will have to cooperate, work together and build projects, adapting them to their structural, professional and organizational realities, in a vision open to the future. The draft law therefore shows with absolute evidence that the project must be participatory and involve the communities. This is the admirable spirit of the measure under consideration, which wants to pay attention to the unbearable needs of the many small and valuable communities of our country. [[Applause from Senators Mancuso and Silvestro]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-09-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-885.ana.u28	Senator Ceroni is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-09-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-885.ana.u29	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, Mr Secretary-General, the measure under consideration comes from the last parliamentary term when, when the duo Lupi-Realacci fucked up at four winds, his usefulness has ended up in the drawer. It is a heated soup that we are served in this parliamentary term, insignificant, inadequate and useless. A measure that is of no use, I smoke in my eyes for unsuspecting citizens who do not know the reality of things. We know what you have in mind about local autonomy. You prefer democratic centralism to local autonomy. But do you know the problems of the Italian municipalities, of the more than 5,600 municipalities with less than 5,000 inhabitants? Honestly, I'm not surprised at all. Your thoughts are poorly concealed. We are well aware of your objectives: to destroy local authorities. Before you massacred the Provinces, reduced to second-degree bodies, deprived citizens of the possibility of choosing their representatives from a wide area, reduced their skills and staff and made fierce cuts of resources, so that the Provinces are not able to carry out even the least of the four functions that have still remained within their competence: school, road, environment and urban planning. All this has been done in open violation of the Constitution. So much for you the Constitution, laws and regulations are rag paper, optional. Now your action continues leading the municipalities to failure and failure, with cuts in resources and staff and continuous and asphyxiating bureaucracy, thus condemning them to a slow and inexorable agony. Your design is clear. On the other hand, it is written in the documents deposited in Parliament. It is enough to look at the draft law signed by Mr Lodolini, signed by twenty other colleagues, amending the single text of Legislative Decree No 267 of 18 August 2000 on the population of municipalities and the merger of minor municipalities. According to Lodolini, we must find an effective mechanism to reduce the fragmentation of Italian municipalities: that is, we must destroy communities with 1,000 years of history; of course, all this with the complicity of the ANCI, another totally useless association, that burns public money in industrial quantities. The more than 5,600 municipalities under 5,000 inhabitants must disappear on the pretext of improving the quality and efficiency of the services offered to citizens. But why don't you think about improving the quality and effectiveness of services in larger municipalities, where their cost per inhabitant is disproportionate and the waste of public money, robberies and degradation fill the pages of newspapers every day? There's more, you're capable of doing something else. I'll tell you what they were able to do in the Marches. The administrations and mayors of Serrungarina, Montemaggiore al Metauro and Saltara decided to hold a referendum on the merger of the three municipalities. Poor was the participation, of course: out of 9,693 entitled to vote, they showed up in 2,652 to say yes. However, in a municipality, even the majority, 70 percent, said that they did not want to melt or melt. What did the Marche Region do? With an act of arrogance, he passed a regional law to bring together all three municipalities, forcing the merger also that of Montemaggiore al Metauro, which had pronounced itself in the opposite direction. These choices, however, pay dearly: there, in fact, there were three municipalities administered by the left; There's a centre-right mayor today, and the left left went home. Forced approach: either with good or bad, you must do what we say. No one had ever come to this, not even in the fascist period: Fascism, when he thought of merging the Municipalities with the royal decrees-laws nn. 383 of 1927 and 383 of 1934, had provided for the possibility of merging the municipalities with a population of less than 2,000 if the means had been lacking to provide in a convenient way for public services. Then, after the war, the new government allowed the reconstruction of the municipalities up to 2,000 inhabitants who had been suppressed. The problems of the small municipalities are others, first of all the resources: your cuts have been deadly, you have reduced them to their knees. My city - I'm also the mayor - received 550,000 euros of transfers with the Berlusconi government in 2011; today you know how many it receives? 170,000, that is 80 euros per inhabitant to manage the services of competence of a Municipality of 2,200 inhabitants. For every migrant you have allocated 500: but are you not ashamed to treat the municipalities in this way? [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII and the Senator Council.]] The two-thirds cut in transfers at such a time increases the problems of local administrations, because poverty is advancing and there is the emergency of immigration; the municipalities, thus, also have difficulty in increasing their own revenues, because some families no longer have the money to pay the IMU, the TARI the TOSAP, the cafeteria and transport services and votive lamps (they even come to ask to turn off the light bulbs in the cemeteries). You are well aware that this situation is widespread throughout Italy: as the newspapers reported a few days ago, in the Municipality of Palermo 68 percent did not pay municipal contributions. With this measure allocated 100 million in seven years: 10 in the first year and 15 in the following six years; if this sum is divided into 5,600 municipalities, we are at the ridiculous figure of 2,500 euros for each municipality: it is a shame. The administrators of small municipalities are heroes who nowadays take responsibility for administering their communities, crushed by responsibilities, bureaucracy, problems and lack of resources. The mayors often don't know where to bang their heads. The mayors of the small municipalities when they have a thirty-day service contract pay the invoice to the entrepreneur who carries it out; they do not do as the government that pays after two years (the public administration must pay 70 billion euros for services and supplies) or as the City of Rome does, that sometimes makes an accommodation and it is necessary to entrust to a commissioner the management of the accumulated debts separate. On the large municipalities and ministries we must intervene to cut spending and waste. You have to explain to me why the public debt, in these five years, has grown by 360 billion while the local authorities have reduced it by 7 billion. Local authorities over the past five years have contributed over 15 billion to fiscal consolidation, perhaps the state had done so. Minor municipalities need organisational, management, decision-making, tax and tax autonomy. The municipalities need to be able to plan, to rely on certain resources. When do you make the transfers? End of the year? Municipalities also need to be able to invest in extraordinary maintenance. Once upon a time the municipalities could borrow up to 25% of the first three entry securities even of the budget, which could even be forced a little; today we are at 10% of the first three titles in the balance sheet two years before. Today the resources the Government assigns them with the demential mode of click day, ignoring that the conditions of the telematic network are different in every Italian reality and the weight of the files, that is the annexes of the project, affect the speed of transfer of the questions. You really feel sorry for yourself: either you do or you are. The municipalities must make staff turnovers freely when there is only one employee to carry out a particular task. If the only city guard of a municipality goes away, the latter remains without; what does it mean, in this case, to block its replacement? The municipalities must also be allowed to use that single figure for multiple tasks and to eliminate unnecessary bureaucratic procedures. The municipalities, in fact, are in trouble because they have to respond to the continuous requests for statistics. It is necessary to simplify accounting, which cannot be the same for a municipality of 2,000 inhabitants and for a municipality of 2 million inhabitants. Procurement procedures need to be simplified. It was necessary to extend the exemption from the Stability Pact to all minor municipalities and you introduced it for municipalities up to 1,000 inhabitants. There would be a thousand more reasons, I could continue on the list until the day after tomorrow to express an absolutely negative opinion on this measure, which turns out to be totally insignificant, inadequate and useless. The mountain gave birth to the mouse, this is the title that could be given to this bill. For party discipline, of course, I will follow the indications of the Group but my thoughts are clear. [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-09-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-885.ana.u30	Thank you, Senator Ceroni, your thoughts are clear indeed.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-09-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-885.ana.u31	She is registered to speak Senator Pignedoli. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-09-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-885.ana.u32	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, unlike my previous colleague, I welcome the fact that today we have reached the adoption of this draft law, which is part of a process of rationalization and optimization of services through institutional reforms and seeks, at the same time, to give value and to find specific solutions dedicated to that large part of Italy which contains unique assets. The bill at our examination tries to support the "holding" of those places where the major certified agricultural excellences of our country are produced, where the product coincides with the territory and often the name of the productions is identified with the name of the mountain. The measure is aimed at those mountain territories in which, in the last century, during the period of the run to industrialization, a phase of depopulation has opened - not yet finished - in the highest areas of the mountain, a phase in which economic and cultural services and functions were centralized in the large urban areas, making the small centres become outskirts, making the rural culture become marginal, far to the point of losing the relationship between food and its origin, until creating a fracture, a dispersion of knowledge and awareness of the value of food production. The great urban center as a catalyst for everything. The agricultural area in the municipal regulatory plans was white area, the rural area as a unique, indistinct net. This situation was not then the result of a measure or two decrees; it was the result of a culture, of a new one that emphasized standardization and intensive production. I do not agree with the previous speakers. We're reversing the course of that idea of Italy. We have done so in recent years, in this legislature, in particular with the laws that enhance biodiversity: the environmental connection, the agricultural link, the important strategy of the internal areas, with resources aimed at the recovery of the villages. Agriculture, indeed agriculture, is at the heart of a new idea of development, of new professions in agriculture for the new generations. That's a fact, they're facts. I also hope that this House will take the opportunity to adopt the Act on Organics and Mediterranean Diets in this last legislative split. Here, we continue this challenge also in this measure on small municipalities, to enhance the richness of differences and varieties, our first competitive factor in a standardized world. We are reversing the course in the relationship between urban function and new functions of rural areas and we can do so now, at this time when the essential elements of epochal changes, which are communication and energy production, are no longer based on centralized systems. The communication is now based on network dissemination and energy on the possibility of widespread production. This changes everything and opens up a new idea of living. Each point of the network has the possibility to become a center, if you have the skills, if there is creativity, if there is motivation. We need infrastructure and we need it quickly. It is not a detail of the article in the law that supports the development of broadband in small municipalities, because this is a decisive element. It is a conquest of equal opportunities for fast communication, in the small mountain town as well as in the large urban area. It is the difference between being terminal and subordinate to directional functions born elsewhere or being protagonist in entrepreneurial and cultural actions. This is a measure that looks therefore to that precious Italy and rich in opportunities, but also equally fragile, still at risk of abandonment, where the possibility of life of the community and families is often linked to the holding of a school, the quality and safety of a hospital service or a birth point where health value and social value are interwoven. In those areas the permanence of young people becomes a precondition for any other development discourse. Yes, the resources allocated to this measure are important. They are not enough and will certainly have to be increased, but they are not the only important element and the only discrimination. I do not agree with Mr Candiani: the stimulus is to relaunch ancient heritage as fundamental elements for an idea of the future possible. It is a cultural turning point, it is an additional tool to identify, as is recalled in the law, new solutions of multifunctional services, for post, for training, for tourism with widespread hospitality. What is very important in the law is that new possibilities are opened that are detached from the rigidity of numerical standards as the sole criterion of evaluation. What is really crucial now is that all this is immediately recognised, activated and consistent with the choices made, with the legislative measures under way. It is important that these priorities are recognised by the regions and that the sense of this measure is recognised, while parallel decisions are taken on the maintenance of hospital care, school principals, the idea of support for entrepreneurial initiative, taking into account the specificities. I am thinking of farms capable of producing unique excellences, such as companies with a high level of complexity. It is necessary to support those who face the challenge of environmentally sustainable agricultural production and not to provide general and indistinct assistance. That's the change. I believe, Madam President, that this is a cultural leap of great importance, an investment in the future based on the combination of tradition and innovation, on new solutions to be sought, with some criteria to be reinvented and paradigms to be reset. We are in a phase of transition and, if we firmly focus on originality, high quality value, safeguarding the historical-cultural and environmental heritage, we will do a great service to the generations that will come. The very long time that has been lost in the process of the measure under discussion will have to be compensated for by rapid implementation: this will be the real result. [[Applause from Senators Mancuso and Vaccari.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-09-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-885.ana.u33	He's enlisted to speak Senator Centinario. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-09-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-885.ana.u34	Madam President, the Democratic Party, at this time and above all on this measure, I see it as a bipolar disease: on the one hand, it presents measures in which we talk about the amalgamation of the municipalities under 5,000 inhabitants or, in some proposals, the suppression of the municipalities under 10,000 inhabitants; on the other hand, when it fills its mouth, as we have heard in this House, about the small municipalities, it speaks of the epochal change made with this measure. Or one thing or another: you can't expect to have everything. The big problem is that if this is the epochal turning point, you have to put your hands in your hair. If I were a mayor of a municipality under 5,000 inhabitants or if I were a mayor who would benefit from this epochal turning point, I would be a little angry, for the simple reason that this epochal turning point, on a state spending of about 800 billion euros, will consist of 100 million euros in seven years. Dividing this figure by 5.585 municipalities, you reach little more than 17,000 euros per municipality per year; in seven years it means about 2,500 euros per year for each municipality. Oh, my God, what an epic turning point! Wow, if I was a mayor, I'd open the champagne at this point, and I'd say, I have solved the problems of my budget! Let's go see this epochal turning point in what it is. In Article 2 ('Activities and services') we talk about the establishment of multifunctional centers: fine, a beautiful epochal turning point, but with what money? With 2,500 euros a year do we make multifunctional centers? In Article 3 (the Structural, Economic and Social Development Fund) you make available as much as EUR 25 million for 5,000 municipalities; they seem a lot, but to do what? Protection of the environment, protection of cultural heritage, mitigation of hydrogeological risk, preservation of historic centers, safety of road and school infrastructure, promotion of economic development: all with 25 million euros to be divided between more than 5.000 municipalities. It's an epochal turning point! Article 4 (Recovering and redevelopment of historic centres and promotion of popular hotels) provides for: extraordinary maintenance of existing public assets, reuse of building assets, improvement of urban furnishings, earthquake-proof consolidation of historic buildings. It is true that it is an epochal turning point, but with 100 million euros and 17,000 euros in seven years per Municipality, the epochal turning point is only in the minds of the senators of the Democratic Party. Also, do you know what it means to promote popular hotels? Do you know what the promotion of tourism in our country means? Apart from the fact that the promotion of tourism is a matter delegated to the Regions, so let's do it to those who may be more competent, because if we think of the Ministry of Tourism also in this case - I say it as an operator of the sector - there is to put your hands in the hair (for those who have them). Article 5 ('Measures to combat the abandonment of buildings in small municipalities') provides for the redevelopment of buildings in order to counter the abandonment of these centres; this will also be financed with those famous 25 million euros I was talking about before. Besides everything I've told you, there's that too. Are we kidding? If we're gonna make fun of 5,000 mayors, let's face it. Article 6 (Acquisition of cantonal houses and realization of tourist-cultural circuits and itineraries) is something that makes you smile, because by now it is the "fix" of Minister Franceschini, who objectively - everyone has his skills - understands very little of tourism and has a Undersecretary of goods, cultural activities and tourism that understands even less; consequently, they think of developing tourism in Italy with the acquisition and development of cantonal houses. Italy is more, Mr Franceschini, than the cantoniere houses. You rely on those who understand tourism. Here too, however, we do not develop tourism with cantonal homes at the expense of the Ministry of Tourism, but delegate it to small municipalities and saying to small municipalities: The tourism is developed with the cantoniere houses but at your expense (with those famous hundred million euros). Again: with what money? Article 7 regulates conventions with religious confessions and the recovery of cultural goods. In the small municipalities, in the most beautiful villages in Italy, there are churches that, at this moment, represent the artistic and cultural heritage of our country. They are to be restored, they are to be used, they are to be valued. And very often comparing us with the mayors who are part of the most beautiful Borghi association in Italy these tell us that what is missing is the funds. Great. Again, that's a good idea. It's amazing, but how much money is it made? With the €100 million of about €900 billion in government spending? Article 8 regulates the development of the ultra-wide band network, about which Senator Candiani spoke very well before. Also, in this case, the question I ask myself is: but what money do we develop broadband with, especially in mountain areas? With those famous 100 million euros? Because that's the blanket. The dream book is gorgeous, it's voteable. If those are the intentions, we agree and vote on them, but with what money? Article 9 contains provisions on postal services. Again, if I were a mayor, I'd be angry. On postal services in recent years the Senators of the League have waged battles with the mayors of small municipalities in order to be able to protect and maintain post offices in their countries, precisely because the Italian Post Society, with a plan of rationalization of post offices, has massacred the small municipalities. Many post offices have already been closed and, in many cases, the mayors have managed to keep them open because they have granted the premises free of charge to the company Poste italiani in order to keep the post offices open. The question we ask you is: do you know what the plan of development and rationalization of Poste Italiane is or, again, is the book of dreams, written this way because it was necessary to write something, perhaps to keep the mayors of small municipalities good in view of the next elections? Because it looks like this to me. As for the distribution of the press referred to in Article 10, we agree, it is a beautiful idea: a newsstand in every small town. But to allow one to be an entrepreneur, to go to a small town, to spread the local press, to be a newsstand at a time when the newsstands are closing in the big centers, and not in the small centers, ag voran the danees, gentlemen. It takes money! [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group]] And if you don't put in the money, maybe write the dream book and give it to those newsagents who distribute it for free to their parents to make the children sleep. Article 11 refers to the promotion of zero kilometre products; Article 12 of the sale of zero kilometre products; Article 13 of rural development policies; Article 14 of the promotion of films (at least at zero cost) and Article 15 of transport and education. Gentlemen, we need the money. Dear Government, it takes money to come to the House and tell us about the dream book. Personally, Gian Marco Centinario seems to have returned to yesterday. Measures that are of no use to anyone. We're here to say we brought home another zero-cost measure that won't help anyone. It will only serve Prime Minister "Renziloni" to fill his mouth and say that maybe he did a reform too. A historical reform. You brought home a historical reform: good! (Senator Centinario applauds ironically.) At no cost, and no one will benefit! [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-09-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-885.ana.u35	Senator Uras is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-09-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-885.ana.u36	Madam President, the legal content of this measure is, in my opinion, absolutely positive. It is a useful signal to the realities of our small communities and, from the regulatory point of view, it corresponds to the need to extend powers and opportunities for our small municipal administrations. It remains a subject that I believe that the rapporteur and the Government themselves should also put down: I have an idea that the financial resources we have seen included in the draft law are not so unchangeable, indeed, that it is the general interest of this Assembly, of Parliament as a whole and of the country, already from the next budget law, to intervene on these issues by strengthening financially the good things that are there from the regulatory point of view. Having said that, I would like to make a point which is the basis of my positive opinion. Of course I keep my criticism, which is also developed within the Mixed Group with the other components of the same, which give a not negative, or rather appreciation, judgment on individual articles, but express a concern about the effectiveness of the rules contained in this bill with the financial envelopes provided. This is a consideration of one of the themes underlying the effort that Parliament and the competent Commission have made in this measure. The theme is depopulation, which, be careful, concerns the whole country, as we have a zero growth index and even, in many realities, we have absolutely negative birth indices (living and dead). I come from a region that has a negative growth index and a demographic projection of very significant anthropic desertification. Over the next thirty years, for a region like Sardinia, which has 1,600,000 inhabitants, we are talking about a loss of 25-30 percent of the population. We, in 2050, will have over 400,000 Sardinians less, in a region that has the beauty of 377 municipalities (because the territory is vast), of which a third under the 1.000 inhabitants, more than two third under the 3.000 inhabitants (under the 5.000 inhabitants even more) and very few municipalities above the 30.000 inhabitants. It is a region, therefore, which has a problem of growth and backwardness due to its demographic consistency. In fact, although it is a beautiful region, it pays the price, compared to the density of population, which derives from a disadvantage that is objective and that I have had the opportunity to emphasize in other circumstances: the objective disadvantage is the insularity, interpreted because of the insufficient connections with national and European networks; an insularity that is interpreted in the sense of isolation, which today can be surpassed, even technically. The problem of depopulation concerns not only the Sardinian reality, but also many national realities. I do not want to open here a chapter that I know but not as deeply as other political forces in this Senate. I am referring, for example, to depopulation in mountain areas. I do not want to open up issues that must also be dealt with for the smaller islands. Yet this too is one of the issues we need to address. Nor do I want to open up the question of managing the lives of people, our communities, the serious problems affecting work and the possibility of active inclusion in the society of our young people. These, however, are the issues to be addressed in order to combat depopulation, to keep our small communities alive, because they must be maintained because of the same objectives that this law sets itself, which are mainly the government of the territory, its maintenance and its defense against dangers. What is the maintenance of identities and belongings as necessary roots for the development of personalities as well? In the defense of our immense cultural, archaeological and historical heritage, because it is in small communities that there are aspects that are often most relevant in this respect (in terms of landscape and cultural heritage in the broad sense). In order to defend all this, our communities must be kept alive and those who do, instead, only economic reasoning and think of eliminating them through forced combinations make a mistake, because they are making an untenable and fightable choice. Exactly the problem of managing the decline of this country arises and this must be avoided. We can and must think of the development of our country, also from the demographic point of view, through the strengthening of small communities. It is not acceptable that we give up the opportunities that come from the world, its phenomena and the reasons for developing processes to strengthen us also from the demographic point of view. Demography is a fact to keep always in mind because it affects everything. I say this to those who want to defend the small communities by saving the newsstands: to save the newsstands you need someone to buy the newspaper, otherwise the newsstands close because there is no one going to buy the newspaper. In order to save the real estate in our small communities, there must be someone who lives there, otherwise they decay, degrade and collapse because no one keeps a house where he does not live: he abandons it even if he owns it. So to do this, we need people. We think of the development of this country without even recognizing to our citizens the right to be such. I say that for the ius soli and I don't want there to be any misunderstandings. We have 6 million foreigners in the country who work for 56 percent - 3 percent more than the Italians do - because they accept to deal also with sectors in which our fellow countrymen feel that they no longer have to engage. We have six million foreigners who have a large or part of the right to citizenship. We have young people who have studied and grew up here; they are Italians to the last cell of their ability to be citizens, because this is the condition that they have lived in schools, universities and participating in professionalization projects. We have six million foreigners, many of whom have matured, compared to a logic also legal that must be healed against the gaps that we still find in the legal order, the characteristic of being citizens of our country. We must take into account the fact that finally the world - not Italy or Hungary - is inter-ethnic and intercultural; we must therefore think about respect for all and the acquisition of respect for all through real integration processes that make this very important human resource a lever for the overall development of our continent and our country. Be careful because if we do not do so, we will be those who build walls, they will end up under you, because they will collapse under the weight of a responsibility due to an unsustainable political short-sightedness. We can re-launch our small communities through attention to the demographic development of our country. This means helping also families, young couples, those who would like to stay in Italy, who have professionalized and studied to make a contribution to our country, avoiding that they are instead emigraters. In fact, I remember that we are affected by migratory flows, but also by migration flows. I come from a region that still has significant migration flows, equal and even higher than those of immigration. This applies above all to the new generations, those for whom we have invested important resources for study and professionalization; young people who are able to play their cards elsewhere and who, on the other hand, we would like to remain in our communities, even in small ones, in such a way as to support the development of our land. These are the issues we need to address. I therefore believe that the draft law before us is good, but it is included within a framework of general interventions that take account of the great social and economic phenomena that our time is experiencing. [[Applause from the Misto-SI-SEL Group and the senators Mancuso and Vaccari. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-09-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-885.ana.u37	Senator Perrone is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-09-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-885.ana.u38	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, the measure we are debating today is yet another attempt by Parliament to adopt legislation designed to make the most of small municipalities. The text of the bill in fact, already approved by the Chamber, follows in large part the provisions of the provision that was approved in May 2011 by the Assembly of Montecitorio, which unfortunately did not stop immediately after, right in the Senate. Before this other similar attempts were made both during the XIV and XV legislatures. This is quite unusual if we think that of the 8,000 Italian municipalities, about 5,000 of them have a population of less than 5,000 inhabitants, which together represent 54 percent of the national territory and in which 16.56% of the population lives. No wonder, then, that the criticalities related to the dynamics of small centres over the years have become difficult to resolve and widely diversified. The adoption of the draft law under discussion is obviously not able to heal all the weaknesses and inconveniences that afflict the small municipalities, but I hope it will constitute a reversal of the tendency on the part of the legislator; a useful starting point for making clarity within a multitude of sectoral laws that, in various ways, affect small local realities. Similarly, without effective harmonisation of all existing legislation on the subject, we will continue to see a failure to disperse economic resources and a difficult identification of priorities at national level. Not surprisingly, the limits of the draft law under consideration are mainly two: first, the forecast of the annual appropriation (10 million euros for the first year and 15 million euros from 2018 to 2023) for the National Plan for the redevelopment of small municipalities appears to be extremely laughable compared to the multiplicity of interventions that the measure aims to achieve. In addition, there are serious concerns about the arrangements for the allocation of projects to be financed, especially because the choice to concentrate decision-making powers at government level risks making the role of the regions marginal, which, with the degeneration of the Provinces, are the administrations that have a more direct dialogue with the small municipalities. This condition opens the door to the problem of competing competences between the State, regions and local administrations, which will probably slow down the implementation of the interventions and, therefore, effectively frustrate the purpose of the measure. Looking at the realities of small municipalities, it is clear that the main problem to be solved is that of depopulation, since, without appropriate interventions, within the next ten years we will inexorably face the risk of seeing 60% increase in the share of national territory abandoned. This escape effect of young people and young families has created a vicious circle for which young people seek a different job and a different life in the nearest cities and capitals; at the same time, however, the lack of a numerically adequate population forces many local realities to do without services, even essential, for the citizen. In this way, those who have left will no longer return and those who would like to leave the chaotic life of the cities preferring a life with a human dimension in the small municipalities are demotivated precisely because of the poor supply of basic services. The marginality of these places can be overcome through integrated policies able to enhance the civic pole of these territories and for the preservation of cultural identities. The objective we should aim to achieve as legislators is to create the conditions for a policy of economic and social growth of small centres, capable of developing the benefits of civil life in all its forms. For these reasons we must not overlook the need to have references of local socialization aimed at improving the quality of life of the residents; otherwise we expose ourselves to the risk of making the small municipalities of the suburbs, places without identity and without recognizability. In this respect, the phantom countries are not only those with low population density, but also those who have lost their specific culture and traditions, also from a productive point of view. Each country or small Italian village has its own history to tell, even from a productive point of view, so much so that 73 percent of the most beautiful villages in Italy and 94 percent of the little ones boast at least a product with a protected designation of origin (PDO). These villages, these historic centers represent the immense national heritage that makes the Belpaese one of the most sought-after tourist destinations in the world. That is why the reversal of the trend I mentioned earlier is an indispensable step in the right direction. The fact that the legislator only in the period between 2011 and 2015 made financial cuts to the municipalities for nine billion euros and expected to subject them to the rules of the Stability Pact shows that a containment of public expenditure of a horizontal type and without a balance of interests generates huge inequalities. Interventions that, especially in small realities, have created severe inconveniences for local administrations. From this point of view, it is necessary to enable the mayors and local administrations to return to investing in the territory and not just worry about getting the accounts right. It is undeniable that the Government in recent years, with respect to the real needs, has granted very little to the small municipalities. This bill, undoubtedly inspired by the best intentions, also lacks the economic resources to comply with the provisions contained in it. The strengthening of small municipalities requires multidisciplinary interventions, since local identity characters can be maintained only by achieving a fair balance between the residential, commercial, third sector functions and the functionality of public spaces to stimulate social cohesion. Parliament must finally lay off important measures such as the draft law on the containment of soil consumption, which aims to zero soil consumption by 2050 and aims at urban regeneration and quality building, but also at the bill to promote the conversion and redevelopment of abandoned industrial areas. Therefore, it is necessary to provide for a regulatory link, starting with the reconnaissance of the measures already in place and those which are about to be approved. All the more so when it is difficult to find financial resources, these must be used intelligently on the basis of predefined priorities. The aim must be to ensure multifunctionality in small municipalities, therefore from a permanent residentiality that cannot be renounced, to the promotion of productive, agricultural, commercial and craft activities that are interdependent. In this context, technological development which, especially in inland and mountain areas, is struggling to take off is of great importance. In fact, the reality reminds us that to date 26 percent of small municipalities have not yet served by broadband. To conclude, there is still much work to be done to be able to feel that something is really changing for the better. On the protection of the territory we are still taking the first steps. However, considering that somewhere we have to start, I would like to think that the approval of this measure can keep high attention on these important issues for the preservation of the incalculable national heritage that we have inherited over the centuries. [[Applause from Senators Mancuso and Liuzzi]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-09-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-885.ana.u39	Senator Orellana is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-09-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-885.ana.u40	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, I believe that a very important measure has finally arrived in this House, the aim of which is to establish measures for the support and exploitation of small towns. The text, as has already been said, was born in the Chamber of Deputies as the House Act 65 of President Realacci and was approved in this branch of Parliament unanimously, with 438 votes in favour and none against, by all the Groups. That is why I am surprised to hear the tone of some speeches. I realize we're in another branch, but the parties in the House and the Senate are the same. I do not, therefore, explain the tone of my colleagues in the North League today in this House compared to their vote in the House a year ago. In fact, there is an explanation: they changed their mind - I imagine - when the appointment with the ballot boxes approached. But let us return to the measure, because everyone responds to their electorate and will have to explain these inconsistencies as well. The importance of the bill lies in particular in the fact that this is perhaps one of the rare occasions when, at the institutional level, a reality and a specific characteristic is taken into consideration on which our country has always been based: the small municipalities, often located in inland areas or in mountain areas, where millions and millions of Italians live and it is paradoxical that these citizens are often absent on the political and institutional national agenda. I therefore consider this measure to be an important step towards reversing this trend. This reality of a large number of small Municipalities is typical of the Region where I live, Lombardy, which counts over 1,500 Municipalities. My Province in particular, that of Pavia, has then 188 municipalities, of which 164 with less than 5.000 inhabitants, many of which mountain and distant from large inhabited centers. The citizens who live there feel isolated and, in a way, forgotten. This law marks, I hope, a decisive reversal of the trend. The text, therefore, lays down measures for municipalities with a population of up to 5,000 inhabitants or municipalities established as a result of a merger between municipalities with up to 5000 inhabitants each. Small municipalities must, however, have certain characteristics: for example, be located in areas affected by hydrogeological failure, be characterized by marked economic backwardness or by conditions of settlement discomfort, inadequacy of essential social services and difficulties of communication and distance from large urban centres. In this measure it is possible to identify three macro objectives: to promote and promote the sustainable, environmental and cultural economic and social development of small municipalities; to promote the demographic balance; to ensure the protection and enhancement of their natural, rural, historical-cultural and architectural heritage. In this respect, it is important to adopt measures to the benefit of both the citizens who reside there and of the productive activities, with particular reference to the system of essential services, with the aim of combating depopulation and encouraging the influx of tourists. In this context, not only the provisions of Articles 4, 5 and 6, but also those of Article 8, aimed at stimulating the development of the ultra-broadband network and e-government programmes, are of particular importance. More specifically, paragraph 1 of the article states that the areas of small municipalities, for which there is no interest by operators in creating networks for fast and ultra-fast connection, can be allocated the resources envisaged, in implementation of the plan for ultra-broadband of 2015, for the so-called market failure areas. However, I do not intend to go over all the contents of the text here, because it has already been well done by the rapporteurs. I will confine myself to those who have hit me most. Thanks to the provisions contained in Articles 11 and 12, small municipalities will be able to promote the consumption and marketing of agri-food products coming from a short chain or a useful kilometre. In addition, in the invitations to tender issued by small municipalities, for the provision of services related to collective catering, will constitute preferential for the award of the use of such products, including organic ones. Moreover, small municipalities will be able to allocate specific areas for the realization of agricultural markets for direct sale, giving priority to the parking spaces for agricultural products and foodstuffs coming from short supply chains and useful kilometers, with the possibility for the exercises of the large commercial distribution to allocate a fair percentage of the purchases to these products. The aim of the provision is also to increase the environmental sustainability of the consumption of agricultural products and foodstuffs, an objective that should be promoted and implemented not only at local level, but should be taken as the guiding principle of national agri-food policy. Finally, I would like to refer to Article 15 (1) and (2) which provides for the preparation of an Education Plan for rural and mountain areas, which must relate to the linking of the educational complexes located in these areas, computerization and the progressive digitization of the educational and administrative activities taking place in the same complexes. I am absolutely in favour of this initiative, but I would have liked a specific commitment to the transport of disabled students. It is undeniable that in small urban centres it is even more difficult to find resources to ensure primary services such as the education of students with disabilities. The adoption of the draft law could have been an opportunity to allocate funds for the removal of architectural barriers, the transport of students with disabilities and communication assistance for disabled people in schools of all levels. To this end, I had tabled amendments which, unfortunately, have not been transposed. It was, understandably, preferred to avoid amendments to the text in order to reach the House for its final approval. I trust, however, that this lack can be remedied in the next law of stability by increasing the fund created by Article 3 of the measure. I should like to conclude by wishing that this measure will not only be approved, but that it is indeed the first step in a path of greater attention to the reality of small municipalities. [[Applause from the Aut Group (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT) - PSI-MAIE and Senator Cardinals]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-09-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-885.ana.u41	Senator Mussini is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-09-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-885.ana.u42	Madam President, frankly, when I read the text of this draft law, I thought that there was a mistake in the press, a mistake in the wording. When I read the figure of 10 million I thought that there was a few zeroes missing, because in all the articles of which the bill is composed it paints in a very clear way what is the scenario of the needs of the territory. Italy is made up of a sum of territories, it is not a nation like others, in which one can imagine that resources, history, culture, creativity and everything that makes a healthy country are concentrated. This is the geographical situation - Italy is a sum of territories - and for historical reasons. As you have well painted, even in the light of a personal experience, Mr Ceroni, today's reality is a nightmare for the mayors of small municipalities, to the point that - it is recent news - in the last elections in some municipalities no one has run for mayor. As Mr Ceroni said, acting mayor of a small municipality today is a form of heroism. Unfortunately, however, the forms of heroism are not always the ones we choose. In fact, it also comes to the question: who makes us do it? What is striking about the measure is, first of all, the ridiculous size of the resources allocated. As has already been pointed out, ten euros per inhabitant for ten years means one euro per year. Let's compare with the figures allocated for financing the country's investments and infrastructure development: this is 1,900 million euros for 2017, 3,150 million euros for 2018, 3,500 million euros for 2019 and 3,000 million euros for each year from 2020 to 2032. This is money provided by taxpayers. I remember that taxpayers are all Italians: a teacher who lives in a small town is as much a taxpayer as a teacher who lives in a big city. It cannot escape the fact that the so-called outskirts ban puts at stake for the big cities and provincial capitals several thousand million euros. I think that this is the sign of a first of all economic abandonment, but also cultural and, above all, political abandonment, which the citizens will still be asking for. In fact, this is a Republic in which - rightly - there is a vote for every citizen. This policy, which is not only of this Government but of the last twenty years, has manifested its total inability to reunite two realities: the reality that I like to caress, what I would now like to represent with the example of the great museum poles that Minister Franceschini so much likes, with the constitutive aspect of this country, that is, a wealth spread over the territory. This year - I say this because I also urge the right identity of Senator Vaccari, who is rapporteur - in the Municipality of Maranello it was celebrated the 70th year of Ferrari. I would like to stress that the Municipality of Maranello, which until 2000 stood strictly below the 15,000 inhabitants, in 1947 saw the birth of the jewel of Ferrari. This is just one of the many examples of creativity, culturally and not only industrially, which I will not mention, which have characterized and still characterize our small municipalities. This is the answer that policy gives: a measure in which there are crumbs compared to what is described in all the articles, that is an important set of needs and ideas for the enhancement that are financed with one euro per inhabitant per day. It's a slap! So what is the central point of this text that I find particularly annoying, because it is political and institutional? The measure serves, in fact, as a deception, as bait: in Article 3, where this fund is included, it is written that, as far as possible, a balanced distribution of resources at regional level will be ensured. "As far as possible"? But how? Above all, priority will be given to the financing of actions proposed by municipalities set up following mergers or belonging to a union of municipalities. This, therefore, is the real purpose of the measure: to push towards a process rejected by communities and citizens, that is, the fusion and union of municipalities. Merger and union of Municipalities, in fact, are the birth of an accounting bureaucracy of half sleeves that are sitting in front of their accounts and, without looking at the reality of our country, they are concerned to make an accounting reasoning. The merger and union of the Municipalities, already made difficult by a history and a culture that see their value and value in the difference, are further made ridiculous by the fact that we expect municipalities to join separate precisely by the lack of those infrastructures that would perhaps make more acceptable a synergy between different institutions. The accusation that I feel therefore to move to the political class and the government of today, but also to those of yesterday and the day before yesterday, is that I have not been able to constantly look to the reality of our territory and instead to have perched on the search for a consensus on large agglomerations, which has made us lose sight of our true wealth; now, however, it is claimed by the small municipalities an effort that goes not only against their culture, but also against their objective capacities to share services. This is the biggest insult. In addition, there is the fact that small municipalities are not given flexibility in relation to all the needs represented in this House; on the contrary, they are asked to meet the same obligations as the large municipalities, without having the resources or the staff. Here is another point on which I want to express here, compared not only to this measure, but to a general style: today we are pretending to assign this money on the basis of bans. I do not agree with the view expressed by a number of colleagues who welcome the concept of a ban as a tribute to meritocracy, because we are talking about needs. The ban is understandable when faced with subjects, for example companies, which rightly need to be tested on their ability to produce and offer better quality products. In this case, however, we are talking about administrations, citizens, we are talking about municipalities which have been deprived of the possibility of having the human resources necessary to build those bans. The municipalities are asked to invest perhaps in private companies that set up the bans for them. If I am the State and collect money from taxpayers to distribute it on the territory, I do so not on the basis of the merit of the individual citizens of the territory but on the basis of the needs. A place that needs to get out of a condition of difficulty, backwardness, that needs to equip itself with schools and to enhance the citizens of today and the citizens of tomorrow, I cannot call it a concept of merit, I must be the state, if I have the claim to collect the taxpayers' money, to give the necessary answer. If it were only for these reasons - the merger of the Municipalities and the proceeding by ban - this measure would not deserve anything more than a vote of abstention, but the two deceptions contained in the bill, which are deceptions of mechanism and carry out a profound manipulation of the duties of the State with respect to the territories, will push me to a vote against.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-09-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-885.ana.u43	Senator Cioffi is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-09-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-885.ana.u44	Madam President, we are talking, as many Members have already done, about a measure which concerns part of Italy which is often forgotten, that of small towns. As has already been mentioned, we are talking about 5,500 municipalities throughout Italy for a total of about ten million citizens. The draft law before us is the result of the merger of various draft laws, including one presented to the House by our Group and whose first signatory is the Member of the Third Party. The concept reiterated is that it is necessary to bear in mind that the rights of people are equal wherever they live, wherever they are, because they are always citizens of this country and also because these citizens, even if they live in areas, we say, peripheral, pay taxes like everyone else and therefore have the same right to have the same services as people living in big cities. For example, we talked about the postal service. Some post offices were closed in the outskirts because economies of scale had to be achieved. The economies of scale, however, cannot be put in place if they cause damage and therefore a lower chance for certain citizens to take advantage of a service that must of course be the same, as we have already said, as that of large cities. Then we said that with this measure we are talking about EUR 100 million, but to me history comes to mind, which should always be remembered. In 1992, with Legislative Decree No. 504, the Special National Investment Fund was introduced, which financed, with the proceeds of the Casino of Campione d'Italia, the interventions that had to be done in the municipalities dissolved for mafia and in the municipalities that were in particular conditions of discomfort. There were a series of tables drawn up by the Ministry of the Interior and the funding was provided directly by the Ministry. The singular aspect is the amount of money provided in this case. We read, for example, that in 1996 EUR 11 million had been paid, in 1997 EUR 11 million still, while in 2001, for example, EUR 13 million had been paid. In today's measure we read that 10 million euros will be paid in 2017. Now, EUR 11 million in 1996 is obviously not EUR 10 million in 2017; so it seems to me that we are lagging behind what we were doing 20 years ago. This is evidence of the fact that the sums made available are really reduced. On the other hand, we must always remember Article 3, second paragraph, of the Constitution, which I shall read: It is the task of the Republic to remove the obstacles of an economic and social order, which, in fact limiting the freedom and equality of citizens, prevent the full development of the human person and the effective participation of all workers in the political, economic and social organization of the Country. We should then go in this direction. How could we do that? There are issues relating to ultra-broadband, a topic that I particularly care about. We must ensure that a person can work usefully, especially in an area far from urban centres; with the technologies available through the network, this can be done. There are therefore these aspects, which are certainly very interesting, also because the areas of the small municipalities that fall into clusters D, where no company intends to intervene and therefore intervenes the State, can benefit from the measures provided for by the resolution of the Interministerial Committee for Economic Planning that refers to broadband. Therefore, I hope that we really will go in this direction and that there will be the possibility for citizens of those areas to be able to live usefully and well in those places and not in urban areas, where more and more people are focusing according to the global demographic dynamics. You can in fact live well in a small town or in a small municipality, even mountain, if you have the services. So when it comes to union of municipalities - here I must disagree with the words of Mr Mussini, who just spoke - the union, which means putting services together, is a useful thing, provided that the proximity doors are not removed. The efficiency and cost-effectiveness of the public administration must not be achieved at the expense of the possibility for the user living in a small municipality to have a proximity door. That's good. It could also be useful and interesting, if the local communities agree, to reach the union of some municipalities. From my side two municipalities merged, after a referendum between the citizens of both municipalities, creating a larger municipality. Therefore, when we talk about the people living in these municipalities, we must consider it possible, beautiful and good to get out of the hyperconsumist loop that we all live in a big city, where everything is fast, faster and faster. You don't need to remember the song that said, Come, come into town. What are you doing in the country? If you want to live a life, you have to come to town. It was Giorgio Gaber, many years ago, who reminded us precisely the fact that we are in an increasingly productive and hyperconsumer society. Instead, it is conceptually right, the possibility of living in a place, which allows me to develop my potential and ability if in that place I can have services and live a dignified life. But we have to make sure that this is real and that it's not talk, otherwise we don't get out of it, we can't get out of it. When we talk about the general transport plan, which must better connect the small municipalities, it's okay, but we have to see how it will be married. When we talk, for example, about the fact that in bans for canteens we must give preference to those who use local products, all right, but we could dare a little'more and think not only about food, but also about handicrafts, commercial goods and short supply chain products. This too could be pushed a little more, perhaps to encourage small and medium-sized enterprises and craftsmen, who are another fundamental and widespread fabric in small municipalities. As always, it's something that's fine, but it's never exhaustive; we're always short of breath and we can't fly high. Even here I could quote Gaber when he said that the idea is like a hypothetical seagull, but then the dream got stuck. We should have the courage to fly a little higher, to be able to make sure that the things we want to put on the field are powerfully strong. Only with a strong and resolute action will we be able to counter the dynamic that leads us all to be hyperproductiveists in order to put man back at the centre and our ability to be men and not machines. This is a first step, not a definitive one, but we can and should do more. I hope that in the next parliamentary term we will be able to take that final step that we have not been able to take in this. [[Applause from the M5S Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-09-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-885.ana.u45	He's enlisted to speak Senator Malan. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-09-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-885.ana.u46	Madam President, this measure will also have a large vote in favour of the Forza Italia Group. We have come to the point that we cannot even say that this law will always be better than nothing, because we are already with the least sign regarding the consideration of small municipalities in recent years. Since all that has been done against the small municipalities we will certainly not delete it by rejecting this law and since it recognizes the problem and at least a ludicrous sum - really ludicrous, but then I will return to it - the appropriation, rejecting this law, whose articles are largely completely useless, would mean eliminating that small recognition referred to in Article 1 of the measure and those few funds provided for in Article 3. In fact, to say that these funds are few is still optimistic. I've heard of 100 million: it's very true, it's the total. Over seven years there are 100 million, but let's remember that usually the measurements on how much the state allocates are made over a year, so it is less than 15 million per year, which means less than 2,200 euros per year for each municipality. If we calculate that every immigrant who arrives with boats costs the State, once he arrives and saves extraordinary expenses, 2,200 euros per month, it means that an immigrant is worth as much as 12 small municipalities under this law. But, as I said, 15 million a year is better than nothing, even if we are very close to nothing. I'll make another comparison. The Solidarity Fund between Municipalities, a bizarre institution, means that virtuous Municipalities must raise money for non-virtuous Municipalities. It is a very questionable system, but at least it should be between municipalities: a municipality that has more, probably because it is better administered, as well as for more fortunate socio-economic circumstances, makes available resources to the municipalities that have received less. But of the 4,7 billion that this Fund constitutes, 400 million were held by the State. Therefore, from the resources of the solidarity fund between the municipalities (to which the local communities, through the mayors, pay resources to the State to help the other small municipalities) 400 million takes them from the State, which then by this law pays 15 million a year to the small municipalities. I don't know if I get the idea of what size we're talking about. The question of small municipalities has been the subject of a great deal of talk: "We must reduce waste!" I remind the 5 Star Movement that in its program of 2013, the one with which the colleagues present in the Senate were elected and of course also in the other branch of Parliament, included the amalgamation of the municipalities under 5.000 inhabitants, because, apparently, the municipalities under 5.000 inhabitants are a waste. Then, however, if you go to see reality, not rhetoric and not what they want to make the media pass, we find that, by law (because it is not a faculty), the municipalities all, from the largest to the smallest, must provide a series of services to the citizens. In general, if we were to talk about companies, indeed, for the economy of scale, we should imagine that the large municipalities provide services at a lower cost, for a double reason: because they are larger (it is the famous economy of scale) and then because they have, in the vast majority, a territory simpler to govern. To provide a service to one hundred thousand Milanese, to one hundred thousand Romans, to one hundred thousand Turinese, there is a territory, meanwhile flat (perhaps in Rome a little 'less), where one hundred thousand citizens are in a very narrow area, even in a few hundred meters. Instead, the municipalities that have a thousand or even fewer inhabitants have a lower scale economy and the inhabitants are much more scattered over the territory, often mountain or island or live in the countryside, with more difficult communications. This should be reality and, in fact, on this completely theoretical certainty is based on the principle that we must massacre the small Municipalities, force them to unite and put blocks of all kinds, such as the blocks of assumptions measured on the great Municipalities. The general forecast, in fact, is that for every five employees who retire at least one can be replaced. However, they must have all retired in the same year. This means that a large municipality, for every five pensioners, can actually hire a new one. But for small municipalities, which to a large extent have fewer than five employees (many have only one), when will it ever occur that five employees retire and so can they hire another? We have posed this problem many times but we have been told by the rapporteur of the Democratic Party: it is true that the problem is there, but so we push the Municipalities to come together. Then, however, from the data we see that the highest average of the expenditure to provide services, in the various population classes, is precisely that of the municipalities over 250,000 inhabitants. They spend around 1,578 euros per capita to provide municipal services, while the overall average is 938 euros. But look at this: the largest municipalities are the ones who spend the most. In the second place for high expenditure and, therefore, for poor management or, however, for greater costs in providing these services there are the Municipalities between 60,000 and 250,000 inhabitants, that is the second highest group per population where, however, we are still above the average. The municipalities under 60,000 inhabitants on average have lower costs. The municipalities under 5,000 inhabitants, who have all the difficulties I have described before (few inhabitants scattered over an extended territory, so no economy of scale and considerable territorial inconveniences), are well below average, about 10 percent below average expenditure. But then why do we have to slaughter the small municipalities? For some years now, the great media and the political parties that follow them have liked to unite, standardize and approve. This is in the face of Article 5 of the Constitution that boasts that Italy is one and indivisible but that the State promotes, within its competences, the largest administrative decentralisation. Then, however, despite that article 5 that has never changed since 1948, some laws that have done exactly the opposite, without even achieving spending savings. The abolition of so many courts and judicial offices has increased expenditure on small municipalities. Because, in fact, hardly (of course I say it with irony) a small town will become provincial capital, the expenses have increased because the distances are greater. And the savings were equal to absolute zero. It was promised a savings close to zero, of 80 million in three years, but the savings were zero. It was also noticed by the Democratic Party which had in its 2013 program the restoration of some courts, listed by name (I quote that of Pinerolo because it is in my Region, but there were others). All the amendments I tabled, which reproduced the Democratic Party's programme word for word, were rejected by a majority in this House. Then, however, we make the legend of the small municipalities. The Delrio law has massacred the local communities: having made the Provinces a disarticulated, resourceless entity, far from the citizens, it has discouraged even the only ones who have remained the right to vote in provincial elections, that is, mayors and municipal councillors; it has taken away even their desire to go to vote, because in many Provinces we have found a turnout at the polls around 50%. And we're talking about city councillors, people deeply involved in local administrative life. As far as the harmonization of functions is concerned, we have tabled - and I have done so myself - many amendments to postpone the compulsory harmonization of the functions of the Municipalities, because the obligation is absurd: if there is convenience, the Municipalities do so sooner or later; if they do not want to do so, there will also be some reason, since they manage to have lower costs than those of the large Municipalities which they should take for example. Yet, after obtaining a couple of extensions, the rule came into force. The result is that the same bureaucracy that weighs on the great Municipalities weighs on the small Municipalities, with the addition of a problem: once the Municipality has the money and has received all the permissions of this world, it cannot bear an expense because it has to draw through the Union of Municipalities and it has to let local administrators go - I remember that they usually work for free, losing us - tens of kilometers in the car to participate in the meetings - we speak of very large territories - to approve an expense. I am referring, then, to the laws on the Council, which oblige a mountain town to supply itself in the large store near the cities, because maybe there a pencil costs 20 cents less. And how many times have we had to reject the amendments which provided that, if less had been spent, the municipalities could be allowed to supply themselves outside the Council? Then we understood the great love for the Council, reading the newspapers and the investigations on it of the judiciary. The same criterion always applies to the reduction of expenditure centres. I think it is important to reduce expenditure, not spending centres, especially in a country where Article 5 of the Constitution speaks of the wider administrative decentralisation. I shall conclude by saying what would be useful for the small municipalities and that it costs nothing, on the contrary it would be a saving for the State: less bureaucracy. If you talk to the mayors, they will tell you that over the last five years work to do the same things that were done in the past has increased by 30-40 percent; 30-40 percent more work to do the same things as five years ago. Everything happens - as the laws say - at no extra cost. Of course, but that means that you can offer less services to citizens: you don't spend more, but you give less services to citizens. It would then be necessary to abolish - as has been requested so many times - a series of obligations that are already useless for the great Municipalities - to imagine themselves for the little ones - such as the beginning and end-of-term report, the DUP (single programming document), anti-corruption plans (consist in rotating duties for the employees and, when a municipality has only one employee, it has to make a long relationship in which it has to explain why it has not done the rotation of tasks), the plans of transparency, the plans of performances and other things. These are bureaucratic obligations that are focused on the great municipalities, which for small municipalities represent a frightening burden, which affects not the mayors, the city councilors or the councilors, but the population. It affects citizens who have the same dignity as the inhabitants of the metropolis who want to take us for example and who also spend twice as much to do the same things. [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII and Senators Albertini, Candiani and Liuzzi. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-09-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-885.ana.u47	Senator Astorre is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-09-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-885.ana.u48	Madam President, our country, after the Roman Empire, has given the world the institution we are discussing today: the Municipalities. In 1200 in the Lombard League, in Tuscany, in the other Regions of Italy, the mercantile classes, the arts and crafts, the small and middle bourgeois organize themselves and take over the management of the municipality, often hunting lords or dictators of their cities. Thus, in Italy - it is an original institution of our country - the institution of the Municipality is born, which is then exported all over the world. The establishment of the municipality and the municipality is the cross and delight of Italy, because we are often affected by municipalism; often the diatribes between municipalities and municipalities reward the synergies that have been evoked, but they are a delight because they represent the root of our being, the true root of Italy. It is true that the Constitution says that Italy is divided into municipalities, provinces and regions, but it is also true that 99 percent of Italians feel their roots, their being in belonging to a certain municipality or to another. I think that the measure that I would call important and great is precisely in the wake of our deepest and most intimate tradition. I do not return to the arguments contained in it, which have already been well stated, from the defence of the soil, to the green economy and to broadband. On this last topic I want to emphasize a forgetfulness that various representatives of the opposition, from the League to Forza Italia and the 5 Star Movement, have had on article 8 when, out of ignorance or bad faith, they fail to say that, in addition to the 100 million euros allocated in the text, the measure allows to return to the access of 2.2 billion euros allocated by CIPE in 2015 for the municipalities of the so-called white areas. I do not like to use the European definition of economically bankrupt areas, but in any case these are areas where private operators - we have 99% of small municipalities - have no interest in investing. CIPE in 2015 - not in 2008 or 2009, I am sorry, Senator Malan - has allocated €2.2 billion and the calls from Italtel are in place. It's not just 100 million euros. And, remembering the sightseeing trips that the League senators made last week in the earthquake zones, I stress that there may be broadband in those areas thanks to this appropriation. I want, in particular, to mention Article 9 on postal services, which no one has mentioned. As a former regional councillor I fought for the beautiful area of Lazio in the Valle dell'Aniene and Valle Santa, where there is the Abbey of Subiaco, where the first book was printed in Italy, and for the Reatino, hit by seismic events along with many areas of Frusinate and many small municipalities against the Post Office that wanted to close post offices. Article 9 encourages the opening and not closing of post offices and I remember also - I will say it next Tuesday in an audition to the managing director of the Posts - that the convention and the ministerial decree of 2008 prohibits Posts to close post offices in small Municipalities and defines as universal postal service the coverage of at least 96 percent of Italian Municipalities. We are talking about municipalities in depopulation: in the last forty years they have lost about 20 percent of the population. There are, however, 10 million Italians living in these municipalities, who have suffered depopulation in recent years and we hope that measures such as those under consideration, but also other evoked ones, can reverse the trend. And they will also be in depopulation, but I remember that 73 percent of Italy's most beautiful villages belong to the category of small municipalities; 94 percent of them have at least one PDO or PGI product and 79 percent of Italy's finest wines are produced in these territories. I have mentioned these figures, which I have not heard of before, to say how important and beautiful the valorisation of small municipalities is, while at the same time noting how much it can be an opportunity from an economic and tourist point of view. This is not only about our roots and our memory, but also about an opportunity that exists - I have mentioned products and values that exist, that produce economy - and that must therefore be protected in the most appropriate forms and places. However, I would like to point out that there is no measure in the measure which could not be envisaged in it. I would like to address Minister Minniti, Minister Madia and the President of the Council Gentiloni Silveri: we must address the issue of the repair of allowances for administrators of small municipalities. Being an administrator in small municipalities today is basically a volunteer work. Over the years we have reduced their allowances so much and their ability to take permits, that they have basically reached a few tens of euros per month. I think this is no longer tolerable. We must ask ourselves this question from the next law of stability, but we must also address it as a political battle. Tonight a delegation of small municipalities will be attending the final explanations of vote on the measure; they are people who have had to take leave of work and lose work allowances, because they have no opportunity to exercise their activities in a dignified manner. I understand that the restoration to economic viability of the allowances of administrators of small municipalities is not a very popular issue at a time when culturally, by some political movements, but also by some newspapers, the idea is being attacked that members of administration and politics should have an allowance. On the contrary, we will have to get to the point where there will have to be economic sanctions for the administrator or the politician. On the other hand, I have an issue in contrast: since the mayor of a small town has the same responsibilities in the face of the law of the mayor of Rome, the president of the Lombardy or Lazio Regions, I think that the allowances should be repaired. I listened to colleagues from the League and the Five Star Movement. I have also listened to Mr Malan's speech, who, in order to put himself in line with the League, spoke of a legend, comparing what is invested with this bill with what is dedicated to the reception of refugees and asylum seekers. I think this is a fall in style. In particular, to the colleagues of the League and the 5 Star Movement, I say to find the courage to express a vote against the provision. The 5 Star Movement, taken from the idea of winning the elections, says that it will do everything in the next legislature. If the measure sucks so much, there are so many measures missing in it and there is nothing positive, take courage, friends of the 5 Star Movement. If the law does not satisfy you, it is wrong, it provides appropriations for the banks and the parties, express a vote against it. To the friends of the League I say that since 2001 this provision has been discussed and you have ruled the country for nine years. You could have done it better then, instead of getting up and saying that there's no money, it doesn't contain so many measures and it's hurt. It is a measure made on a day that I consider wonderful for our country. It's a good day. And it is also a beautiful day for those who believe in the Democratic Party, which is the first signatory of this bill, which wanted, supported and led to today's definitive approval; but, above all, it is a beautiful day for Italy. [[Applause from the PD Group and Senator Mancuso.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-09-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-885.ana.u49	The general debate is closed. I shall refer the following to another session of the draft law.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-09-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-885.ana.u50	The motions, questions and questions received by the Presidency will be published in Annex B to today's report. I recall that the Senate will return to public session today, at 4.30 p.m., on the same agenda. The sitting was closed at 10.01 p.m.
