ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-897.ana.u1	The sitting is open (9.32 a.m.). The Minutes shall be read. Mr Frevezzi, Secretary, read the Minutes of the afternoon sitting of the previous day. PRESIDENT. - The debate is Since there were no comments, the Minutes were approved.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-897.ana.u2	The list of senators on leave and absent on assignment received from the Senate, as well as further communications to the Assembly, will be published in Annex B to today's Minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-897.ana.u3	I would warn you that qualified votes can be taken in the course of today's sitting by electronic means. From now on, therefore, the deadline of twenty minutes from the notice provided for in Article 119, paragraph 1, of the Regulation (9:36 a.m.).
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-897.ana.u4	The next item is the continuation of the debate on draft law Nos. 2208, already approved by the Chamber of Deputies, and 2230. Senator Lo Moro is registered to speak. You have the right to do so. [[Brusio.]] I would like to ask colleagues for a minimum of cooperation in order to allow their fellow Member to speak.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-897.ana.u5	Mr President, in thanking you for your sensitivity, I too would like to ask my fellow Members for a moment of silence, because the first speech is always very complex. I will immediately say that the subject in question is very close to our Group's heart: our attitude in this regard, therefore, is that of those who think that it is good and it is good to conclude the process of approving the draft law under consideration within the current legislature. This is also a bet, because the text which the House has transmitted to us has undergone some variation in the Commission, which I very much agree with. It is clear that the text which will then fire the Senate will have to return to the other branch of Parliament. There will also be the sensitivity of the parliamentary groups, because often it happens that it is done quickly or it is suddenly accelerated in the approval in one House and then the text lies in the other; this time, however, we hope not. This positive judgment stems from a consideration. First of all, someone, claiming that this is a problem that has already been addressed, said a piece of truth: with the Severino law, in fact, the issue had been addressed. In a law in force, which had also been amended, Article 54-a was introduced, which had strongly placed the issue of complaint and reporting. Today, with the new text before us, we will talk about the alert and the complaint, because in it the data of the alert is amplified compared to that of the complaint to the judicial authority and the Court of Auditors. It is important to contextualize the entry into the Italian legislation of the irregularity report, because it was born practically at the stage in which the Italian Parliament tried to respond to the battle against corruption, which - alas - still sees Italy defeated from the concrete point of view and statistics. This signal has therefore been introduced, taking inspiration from other systems and also from the wave of indications coming from written reports and transmitted by European and international bodies, in order to facilitate a cultural change that Europe and our country need. In the meantime, however, many things have happened and, above all, ANAC has begun to work: today, even its activity can only be considered dissolved by every constraint; it has gone on with guidelines that, without being foreseen, has autonomously decided and spread with transparency. It also went on to define certain problems such as, for example, the extent to which the reporter had to be protected, i.e. until the judgment at first instance. That is what the DAC said, and that is what the text says today. Then, contextualizing, it turns out that today we are reviewing and settling the text to a deeply changed reality. It is enough to think, for example, that in the original text we were talking about reporting to the hierarchical superior and that today we are obviously talking about the head of anti-corruption and transparency, which has been established in every administration. What changes is the general context. The merit of the draft law, which the rapporteur here has taken great care of, which I thank for the attention he has paid to all the even informal remarks we made in the Commission before and after the hearings, is that he does not intervene on an article that needs to be remodeled with the logic of omnibus measures. We could have made an amendment to Article 54-bis and settled it and, instead, we intervened giving not only a title, but a substance of an autonomous institute with a law that regulates it and this is a fact that will also help the spread in the country of a new culture. What is missing in our country is a culture of collaboration. Some associations, which have very much urged the approval of the measure, say that we are close between the omerty and the delaction. No, there is another phase, another possibility of being a public employee or employee of the administration or even a private employee in sectors where corruption is often lurking, such as private sectors that carry out public administration services and therefore live with public money. There is another possibility, i.e. the reporting of a correct person who sees something wrong in the context of his or her corporate organisation or in the context of public administration. It is important because people often called pointy, who report an irregularity or illegal, find themselves accused in trials for slander and we know that, after the denunciation to the judicial authority for a fact that is considered a crime and for which the person denounced is then acquitted, there is of course the registration in the register of crimes for slander. All this is resolved by addressing the issue and establishing that not everything is denounced to the judicial authority, not everything needs a complaint to the judge or to the Court of Auditors, that is to say to the judge who looks to the public accounts, but that there is an autonomous space, occupied from the point of view of the control and the dispensation of the sanctions from the DAC, which provides reports made with a clear objective in this bill and that it was not as clear in the previous phase. The public employee and the parties involved in the new legislation, which is much wider, denounce on the basis of an interest in the integrity of the public administration, according to the current version that may be subject to some modification; or, when it comes to private subjects, to protect the integrity of the institution. Someone said that there is already a complaint and that the public employee is already obliged to report crimes. This is not a tout court crime; it is not the case of the employee who sees a crime of another kind or who occasionally learns about something and reports. These are reports that have to do with the organization of your company or its administration and its functioning. What, then, is the stated objective of the norm, which is written much better today? The prevention of corruption; therefore no alarm must hinder this path, which is primarily cultural. We must not be alarmed by the fact that in a public administration a person who is diligent or who simply has a civic sense, who occasionally finds himself aware of some irregularity signals it; indeed, all this not only becomes necessary and commendable, but must be protected. The other aspect of the bill that is greatly amplified today compared to the current legislation is precisely the protection of this subject. The prediction that an individual can make the alert, establishing principles, must then find support from the procedural and sanctioning point of view. It is, therefore, a much more complete and complex measure, which has its own autonomy and organisation and which must be assessed as a moment when outside as within the Palace we realize that criminal law is not enough, but that we must go further. We cannot continue to see people abandoned to themselves, who have the sole fault of being more attached to public administration and to their own bodies than others. [[Applause from the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and ……]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-897.ana.u6	Senator Cassinelli is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-897.ana.u7	Mr President, in the Chamber, on 21 January 2016, the draft law under consideration, which concerns the anonymous reporting of illegal facts in the public administration or in companies that have relations with the public perimeter, recorded the clear opposition of the Forza Italia Group. The first Senate Commission has largely modified that text, but it has not removed its criticalities which, in our opinion, after almost two years, not only remain, but have even amplified. It is worth pointing out at once that legislation similar to our examination was introduced in the single bank text by the legislator (Article 1 of Legislative Decree No 72 of 12 May 2015) in transposition of Directive 2013/36/EU. As it should be noted, the single text on finance was supplemented by Law No 154 of 2014 (European delegation law, second semester) in implementation of the aforementioned Directive. However, the difference from this text is very simple. In those texts is guaranteed the confidentiality of the personal data of the reporting agent, but also that of the reported person, who is always held to be responsible for the violation, until the conclusion of any judicial proceedings. On the contrary, with the approach taken by the draft law under consideration, there is a risk of leaving on a gratuitous media reporter, without being able to take measures against the reporter, who would prove to be in bad faith, not even at the end of the procedure. The purpose of a law cannot therefore be merely to increase the number of reports of abuse or illegality in the public perimeter. The alert must be an act which can be protected, if at the same time the alert is also protected, which, until proven otherwise, must be considered innocent. The risk is, in fact, that of a long media exposure for the person who is reported, while the reporter is guaranteed anonymity and untouchability until the end of the proceedings. There are no measures to be taken against those who made a bad-faith alert, for revenge or retaliation, or any other reason. A possible procedure for slander or defamation against the reporting agent should then be awaited. It must be said that, moreover, these crimes - defamation, slander - are always difficult to prove. And in any case, a procedural procedure should be awaited following that of the release of the person reported. We are convinced that political representatives do not today have to make an unnecessary competition for those who are the most honest. Honesty is, of course, a prerequisite for those who want to do politics or for those who want to deal with it in any way. On such legislation, however, it was necessary to find a text that was more widely shared by the various political forces. But above all, a balanced and more guaranteed body of law was needed, combining it with the need to combat every form of crime in the public interest. One cannot fail to highlight the practical problems that the proposal brings with it, such as that of proving good faith or bad faith. Just as difficult to prove remain the maliciousness or grave guilt of those who make unfounded reports. A subject such as this, which concerns us all, must be based on terms of law and not rather vague provisions and undefined contours. The problem is therefore not solved by an amendment of this type to Article 54-a of the single text on public employment and the rules related to it. Even taking inspiration from the rules adopted by other countries, where whistleblowing works and helps to discover crimes against public administration, it was therefore necessary to modify the existing legislation, making it easier to prosecute offences in any way related to public money. But it had to be done according to the elementary rules of law, which provide for the presumption of innocence until proven otherwise, even of those who are denounced by an anonymous reporter. In this respect, we believe that all the implications of the new structure must be taken into account, both in the public sector and in the private sector, which has relations with public authorities for procurement, subcontracting or concessions. Otherwise we risk, as we are doing, putting in place a very dangerous legislation, which could be censored by the Consulta, considering the strong doubts of constitutionality that emerge in the light of the principle of the presumption of not guilty under Article 27, second paragraph, of the fundamental Charter, which is a cornerstone of our rule of law and which is trampled on in this law. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator Fucksia is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-897.ana.u8	Mr President, corruption is a very bad thing, it is a metastasis that in the country increases the costs of public services by 40%, that kills healthy companies, that lowers the credit and that every year brings at least 60-70 billion more costs (the evaluations are different in the different sectors). Of course, thanks to corruption, we have contracts that rise, especially when, under a certain amount, it is not necessary to call for tenders, but the comparison between offers is enough. Corruption, therefore, is almost endemic. By the way, we are a bad figure, because, according to the ranking of Trasparency International, we are in 60th place in the world and we are third in Europe for transparency. Pope Francis himself speaks of corruption everywhere, but corruption is also in the Vatican. Corruption is something that worsens the state, prospects and even hopes; it becomes endemic in the institutions, as we have seen several times. We saw it between Buzzi, Carminati, Raggi and Marra: even those who wanted to be an example of transparency and fairness gave their worst. I remember an article in 1955 on "L'Espresso" which spoke of corrupt capital and infected nation. Since then, a lot has been done, but often with disappointing results. At times, controls on controls have paradoxically increased costs, beyond the results. I am thinking, for example, of the earthquake, the last earthquake, where, in order to avoid corruption, we have increased the costs exponentially and we have not achieved results, as there are still houses to deliver and the reconstruction is all theoretical. Then what to do to fight corruption? Cicero said that honesty is a man worthy of honor. To have honor there is no law, there is no deterrent, there is no sanction because honor falls within a much more intimate sphere than the person, it is an awareness that is acquired growing. Honesty is a culture that should start from schools. To be honest, you also have to have courage and then put your face on it. For example, I do not like the fact that the bill provides for anonymity, because we must also take into account the possibility that, starting from a good intention, we get a result contrary to what we wanted to achieve, a bit like sometimes happens in the anti-mafia that becomes a guarantee of the mob itself because the mobster, in some way, can manage to infiltrate and is covered just by those who should fight it. In this law I see several critical issues: first of all there is an additional cost, because a fund for reporting is set up and then an additional shit is created. Then it is a case that becomes comparable to the judicial structure that we have because it is not prevented, today, from denouncing a crime when you see it. It is an ethical duty and we can all do it. Then there is the provision for a financial penalty of EUR 50,000 for which I would like to point out that mistakes are made in justice, in all degrees of judgment. Think about what could happen when there is no preparation, and when the situation might be exploited. In fact, if used badly, this tool can get the opposite effect. I come from an experience in the 5 Star Movement party where these control gendarmes were there. There were the famous spies, the ones that make the film maybe when a senator votes for the colleague who stands two benches below but, with as much hypocrisy, then they do not report the theft of the cell phone of the neighbor of the counter because maybe it had been used for espionage, to find out who knows what, or they take the collaborator among the relatives, maybe the boyfriend who is not resident in the same house, because there is no contract, and therefore legally you can not say anything; but in those cases there is nothing honest. And then, in my opinion, there is something more serious than corruption and it is hypocrisy, that is, intellectual dishonesty that creates more harm than the dishonesty of those who steal, also because the guilt of the latter is clearer to understand. I ask, therefore, to those who exalt honesty so much: where were the colleagues of the 5 Star Movement, when I myself was defamed with untrue news, and they knew it but nobody dared a defense; when other colleagues were expelled with as many falsehoods and no one had the courage to denounce and say that it was not true for fear of losing the next candidacy, an armchair? This is the honesty of cowards, it is honesty that speaks of transparency but hides the budgets, which speaks of meritocracy, of resumes sent and hires relatives, friends, lovers, boyfriends and so on. [[Applause from Senator Rizzotti]] I say, then, that there is no need for an extra law, but to better apply existing laws. He is dishonest who makes the scenes to have the escort and feel important, because in some areas of the country this "does cool." Here, then, there is no honesty, we will never fight corruption in this way and we will never make this a normal country. What then should we do? Firstly, to strive for transparency and simplification, because if we highlight everything, we make everything simpler, fairer, more livable. Perhaps, then, citizens will be spontaneously led to be even more honest. I have heard some debauchery that really disgusted me, thinking of the incoherence in small and great things: certain demagogies, instrumentalizing the need for justice or even the last facts happened in some competitions (surely a costume that has always been there and in part will continue to exist). But are we sure that turning citizens into cops, living in a police state makes us a better country? I think, rather, that it is necessary to implement trust, sense of community, spontaneous collaboration, not Cain against Cain, but to feel ourselves all part of a country. We need to strengthen our sense of belonging, transparency and do everything that is possible at the legislative level. Sometimes, perhaps, the right thing would be to eliminate laws that contradict or make the processes longer, thus giving the possibility, especially to those who can afford a good lawyer, to interpret the law in the most useful and not the most just way. The laws are certainly not enough: in Sierra Leone there are 5,000 bribes per minute; there is even a toll-free number, 515 for reports of this type. I would like this country not to become a police state but to remain a country where the rule of law and, therefore, legal certainty were a guarantee and a foundation also to be more honest and spontaneously to remove corruption. [[Applause from Senators Giovanardi and Sacconi. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-897.ana.u9	Senator Buemi is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-897.ana.u10	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the draft law before us is elusive of the machinery of guarantees which, in a rule of law, tends to criminal proceedings. Behind the screen of the alert made in the interest of the integrity of the public administration, in fact, there is an attempt to lower the threshold of protection that, before an accusation, belongs to every citizen. In this case, in fact, the transmission of the complaint to the criminal court is only possible: beware that it is not a limited case. It has already happened that the mayor of a large city had transmitted acts to the DAC and that this Authority had limited itself to expressing an opinion instead of recognizing elements of suspicion in a given appointment, except then realizing the thing late - when the media scandal broke out - transmitting the acts to the competent prosecutor of Rome. So much for the mandatory relationship in case of criminal offences! Behind the screen of the alert carried out in the interest of the integrity of the public administration is, therefore, a great hypocrisy. In order not to engage in the referral of possible offences to the judicial authority, a parallel sanctioning apparatus is created, which passes through the administration and arrives at the DAC, which will be satisfied even if only with a principle of proof, without soliciting the most rigorous scrutiny (clear, unique, concordant) that requires, precisely, criminal judgment. In other words, whenever you think you can't try a corruptive episode, it will be much more convenient to attest to the minimal hypothesis of mala gesto, to punish in disciplinary - or, worse still, extra administrative, thanks to the determinations of the DAC - those who have no way of defending themselves, staying, precisely, hanging by a thread. Yeah, because at some stage of the criminal trial the defendant gets to know the name of the accused, he gets to know about it. In fact, one of the fundamental elements of the defence is to demonstrate the lack of credibility of the accuser. How do you get the same result in an administrative judgment in which this name, sooner or later, doesn't come up? The need underlying the text is right, but it had to be met differently, without lowering the level of guarantees. My proposal, when examining draft law No 19, was also more rigorous. Amendment 5.0.302, which I signed, was intended to punish with arrest for up to six months, anyone who publishes in whole or in part, even as a summary or as a token of information, the identity of the reporting agent, until the preliminary investigation was in progress. However, I kept myself, not by chance, within the criminal procedural system, respecting the point of balance - provided for there - between the responsibilities of each person: accused, accused, judge, all in the light of the public debate. The Presidency, however, preferred to declare it impossible to give space to this text which derogates from the most basic procedural guarantees. Since we are here, I would like to point out another anomaly in the parliamentary management of this text, which had initially been referred to the Justice and Constitutional Affairs Committees. Shortly after his arrival from the Chamber of Deputies, with reference to this draft law, the radical MPs of the last legislature presented petition No. 1,538, which proposed the extension of the possibility of whistleblowing also to employees from the Chambers. It was also referred to the Commissions and there it remained, even after, with questionable decision, the bill passed to the Committee on Constitutional Affairs alone. Therefore, today we cannot talk about the intelligent proposal of the radicals, which also called for overcoming the self-dedication, in the name of the principle of equality between citizens and, therefore, among all civil servants. We do not understand, in fact, why continue to exclude, at least from the already existing Severino legislation, an administrative niche that in the past has signalled Opacity. If, for example, Scarpellini has paid VAT on the rents of the House of 2011 (as established by the judgment of the Rome Court this week), perhaps those who ran the contract on the renter's side are also required to know. If the content of the petition had been law, we would have all noticed it before and, perhaps, the discredit for the institutions that bear the weight of these situations would have been less. However, there are responsibilities of the legislator: ambiguous, contradictory and uncertain laws in their definition and exhaustiveness, grey areas desired or irresponsibly determined. They are also the basis of a general state, in addition to being missing any preventive administrative control that, precisely, does not act in a precautionary way, questioning - indeed, sanctioning - administrative acts that do not conform to the law. There are responsibilities of administrators, mayors and presidents. In the anti-Mafia Commission's investigation of the Municipality of Rome, the absence of any internal control, any audit or inspectorate carrying out preventive control within an institution which, with its participants, employs some 60,000 people, became clear. There are, however, even more general responsibilities than our country, that is, of us citizens. It is a poor country morally this, if it must reward those who only do their duty. This is a poor country, if it is to protect those who only do their duty. It is a poor country that needs, even in times of peace, heroes. Mr. President, I'm not returning. I believe in a country where there are still those who do not bow to the omerty, the arbitrariness and the personal convenience. There are citizens and parliamentarians who say what they think and do what they have to do. [[Applause from Senator Silvestro. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-897.ana.u11	Senator Sacconi is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-897.ana.u12	Mr President, as has been pointed out by those who have spoken critically on this measure, no one really wants to be insensitive to the transparency requirements of our public and private activities, as no one is certainly insensitive to the need for protection of those who - due to - report anomalies and pathologies in public administrations, as well as in the productive activities of goods and services. The problem at this point is the quality of the legislation we are discussing, the adequacy of the instrument that is being discussed in order to achieve results of transparency and fairness in public and private activities, especially in relation to the equally obvious needs for stability of public activities, of public administrations' activities as well as economic activities. A potential conflict between the requirements of stability and those of protection of reporting by employees of pathological behavior is given by the inevitable possibility of reckless reports that prove to be, not at first sight, but in a time delayed, absolutely unfounded. It is precisely in view of this differential between certain and immediate damages (which occur not only with regard to persons who are subject to reporting, but also with regard to the wider audience of citizens or companies who are interested in the production of contested acts and who would obviously be suspended in the meantime) and the uncertain and delayed results over time, that we must identify ways other than those considered here. I said yesterday that the text in our examination seems to be a fairly direct translation of the disciplines proper to the common law system, which nevertheless has a judicial system with the ability to investigate and decide on the basis of precedents that are not found in our legal system. On the other hand, also and especially in common law systems, in the end transparency and fairness are entrusted to rules of operation of both public administrations and economic activities, rules that determine a series of principals to anomalies and pathologies, referring much to the promotion of civic responsibility and membership of the community of which we are part, which lead us not to accept the pathology when we meet and come to know it. I believe that the greatest dangers inherent in this measure concern mainly public administrations. Let us not forget the reasons for their persistent fragility despite the attempts at reform that have been made, even with torrential production of standards, over the last twenty-five years. There has been a need to introduce the good employer into them several times; I am not referring to a specific figure, but to an order of things that makes the presence of the good employer recognized today absolutely absent. In this fragile context, in the absence of a good employer, very often the environments of public administrations, unlike what happens more widely in the private dimension, become outbreaks of frustrations, envy, revenge and jealousy. In any case, they are places where it is difficult to accept the promotion of others, always feeling discriminated against and oppressed when they do not benefit directly from that or other promotion or opportunity of professional growth. On the contrary, we should encourage the growth of a community feeling: Senator Fucksia referred to it very well before; we should work to ensure that the place and the working environment as a community become the most suitable context in which, on the one hand, anomalies, diseases and crimes that can be committed are in itself difficult and, on the other hand, social control is more present in all those who contribute to that activity. In public administrations there are already safeguards and safeguards dedicated to reporting irregularities. Above all, a greater initiative by the Minister of Public Administration itself is needed, because further guidelines can help to create that more exclusive context of pathological activities. The social dialogue took place only in relation to the national contract and for years, as we know, it has been blocked. On the other hand, we would need a more widespread social dialogue in the public administrations themselves, through which we could reach a maturity of union forms, which all too often take on corporate characteristics precisely because of the absence of a good employer. I never start from criticism of the union: it is normally the mirror of his employer; it is the reflection of the quality of his employer. So, very often, trade union behaviour also has a corporate character, sometimes even a non-transparent one, but the duty of the administrations should instead be to promote a social dialogue articulated environment for the working environment, because public administrations are called to a revolution. If we consider banks and insurance, which have always been considered the private economic activities closest to the organisational models of public administrations, we see how digital technologies have revolutionized the way of working in those environments, but have not substantially changed the way of working in public administrations. Recently we are discussing a large competition simply by assuming the turnover line, that is the replacement of those who leave it, while instead we need a very strong reengineering of the processes and, before that, of the functions. Which did not happen with the third industrial revolution, that of computer science. Digitisation is therefore an extraordinary opportunity for transparency. I believe in the power of technology for the sake of transparency of acts; we are thinking of them, through e-invoicing, also between private and private, and not only in the relationship between them and public administrations. We think that, more generally, we will increasingly have to dematerialise acts and therefore be able to track behavior in the public as well as in the private sector. So technology is also an important deterrent to anomalies. The law should at most be a soft law in these matters, a light regulation with reference to the representative organizations of the workers and with reference to the responsibilities of the Minister of Public Administration for its powers of direction towards the same public administrations! And I believe that, above all, this bill is totally inadequate, I would say dangerous. This is because the cleanliness against reckless and unfounded warnings is absolutely insufficient. Let us not forget that, if there had not been corrective action by the Commission, good faith was even assumed as a justification for the unfounded warning: it came to consider an indefinable good faith as an indefinable reason for the responsibility of the reckless reporter, and that says a lot. Imagine if the sanctions against this reckless reporter should be applied only after all the damage to that unfounded report has been caused; damages that no one could recover then, but this would lead us back to more general reflections on our judicial system, so characterized by certain and immediate damages in the face of uncertain and prolonged outcomes over time, when - God willing - there is a judge in Berlin. [[Applause from the AP-CpE-NCD Group and Senator Giovanardi.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-897.ana.u13	On behalf of the Assembly, I greet the teachers and students of the Istituto comprensivo Galileo Galilei in Corsico, in the province of Milan, who are attending our work. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-897.ana.u14	Senator Mussini is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-897.ana.u15	Mr President, I had set out my speech on a point of order in relation to a number of very important comments in my view on the draft law before us, which I believe should have been clearer, more explicit and more courageous, to give more certainty and to solve some problems. However, I feel obliged to tidy up the papers and also the ideas, since during the general debate I have heard many considerations which I fear may create great confusion in those who listen to us but also in those who, having not followed the measure closely, are called to take a position on the final vote on the draft law that I hope can be modified in the Assembly as it has fortunately been modified with respect to the text received by the House. It has already been said that the text under consideration has its precise foundation in Law No 190 of 2012, which introduces Article 54-bis of Legislative Decree No 165 of 2001, in which there are all the elements that contribute to creating the conditions. However, the DAC, which with Decree-Law No 90 of 2014 was explicitly invested with a competence over what was described and laid down in Article 54-a, states that this law provides general and abstract protection and therefore, in many ways, must be completed with concrete measures of protection of the employee. That is, the reporting employee, in order to feel truly protected, must be able to rely on effective and effective protection in order to combat corruption and bad administration. Therefore, the amendment of Article 54- bis, which had been introduced in 2012, is necessary and, among other things, would have been included in a path of good legislative practice; in fact, with Decree-Law No 90 of 2014, DAC had been invested with precise tasks and responsibilities, which were precisely those of disciplinary procedures. ANAC fulfils with these guidelines that also want to be, as explained by the same Authority that defines them, a collection of good practices and operational indications that the same ANAC aims to submit to public consultation in order to give lines in order to identify the best systems of management of the reports. I myself presented a bill in which, entrusting myself to what I think is the best practice for the construction of laws, I tried to collect and give systematicity to the indications present in the guidelines of the ANAC, as I believe that a good legislator should do: starting from the good practices and the observations that derive from the concrete observation of what a law too generic has placed as a premise, and then giving a formulation that makes that same law more efficient and therefore more protective and corresponding to its principles. So I did in my draft law, also addressing the issue of the implementation of those same safeguards in the private sector. We know that for the private sector the legislative decree n. 231 of 2001 has the models, but those models, as theorists, have the same vice that in fact the DAC denounced with respect to the modification made with the advent of the new article 54- bis in the legislative decree n. 165 of 2001 (introduced for express prediction of paragraph 51 of the law n. 190 of 2012), that is, they are purely theoretical and organizational models. We are therefore faced with an important round of buoys: we must find a way of transforming these measures, which are only theory, into concrete safeguards. At this point, however, before I go into concrete aspects of this structure, on which, if I do not have the time, I reserve the right to dwell when tabling my amendments, I think it is important to recall two principles in order to respond also to a number of issues that have been raised. In the first place, this bill, as reiterated also in the entrusting to the DAC of the construction of these guidelines, aims to prevent corruption. On the term 'prevention', all the speeches, fears and cautions that have been called to this House are cancelled, especially by those who preceded me, namely Senators Sacconi and Buemi, because it is clear that the work of prevention is distinct from the work of repression. As it is clear that the one who has all the tools in hand to make a complaint proceeds in the denunciation to the judicial authority as provided for in the current legislation that - I address to Senator Buemi, which I do not see - no one is touching. Everything that is foreseen for those who wish to denounce - whether it is the public official or the public service officer who, moreover, has this duty - and everything that is in the power of any citizen, or to file a complaint with the judicial authority if he has all the instruments, proofs and data that are certain and proven, is not touched at all. In that case, however, the crime is already there; it is likely that there is already a condition of crime and therefore no prevention work is being done. The cultural shot, which someone obviously does not succeed or perhaps does not want to do, is precisely this: we are moving on to another plan - I say this also to the boys in the gallery who are listening to us - that is the one of prevention. How many times have we heard the word "prevention" invoked as the magic word, such as "abracadabra" for the improvement of our country's conditions? We are faced with a structure that must put us in a position to really implement the prevention of corruption. And in order to do so, we need to act by protecting those who make reports that can be indicators, spies of crimes and, therefore, they can put the judicial authority in a position to identify crimes. This is the real cleanliness, because, as Manzoni said, omnia munda mundis, which means that all clean things are a specific heritage, a way of thinking of those who are clean. We must imagine that reporting is the first tool that benefits the administration itself and, in this way, can identify passages, moments, attitudes, beginnings of bad administration and, therefore, can, first of all, correct them. This is the work of prevention. This is the fundamental work of prevention for which all of us as legislators, the judicial authority and also the executive call into question the help, collaboration and sense of responsibility of every individual citizen who, with this measure, is protected precisely in the clean exercise of his civic sense, of his being a civil servant, of his putting in the first place the good management of the administration to which he belongs. This prevention work must be carried out with appropriate instruments. And the first protection, as I have already had the opportunity to say in yesterday afternoon's intervention, is about work, precisely the respect of the guarantee not to lose your job and not to be penalized. This, in fact, would constitute an instrument of blackmail. This is a process that, in fact, is bottom up, from bottom up. From the bottom up, the worker, in the course of his work, can identify passages that can be a spy of bad administration behavior and report them to the responsible for the prevention of corruption. I'm used to looking at words and there we find the person responsible for prevention. So, all that path, which is invoked, of denunciation and prosecution is something else. Here we are talking about bad administration prevention, assuming that a healthy administration benefits from a whistleblower and, therefore, should be the first to solicit it. In private, this is even more true, In private, what corrodes the ability of the best companies to be on the market are precisely the corruptive phenomena. Therefore, private individuals should be the first to support the validity and benefit of the protection of the reporter. Because the private sector is divided into many different levels. It is not at all said, in fact, and it is also a daily history, that the owner of the company is also the one who supports and knows the mechanisms of bad administration of his company. It is also possible, and absolutely frequent, that the private employee, who knows and knows that bad administration mechanisms are taking place, does not have the courage to denounce them. Worse still: if the company is badly managed, it is in the interest of the market, the solidity of the other companies and the merit. There are people here, who spoke before me, who have this culture of merit and good employer: I would like them to realize that the culture of merit must be accompanied by a healthy working and economic environment. I believe that in the words of those who have spoken before me there is a profound inconsistency, institutional and as legislators. We are in fact implementing European conventions and rules: the last, the most recent, is on anti-money laundering, in which European legislation asks us to regulate protection, so we must do it, we are doing it and it is the private sector, we are talking about banks. There is also a political inconsistency: I have heard everyone tearing their clothes to pieces because of the events connected with the banks. Very well, gentlemen: the most important whistleblowers, which we mentioned yesterday - Stéphanie Gibaud, UBS; Enrico Ceci, Banco di Desio; Hervé Falciani, HSBC - operated in the banks. If we really care about banks, then that's what we have to do. There is also inconsistency with the economy, as I said before, and I believe it comes from an anthropological fact: in this legislature, in this Senate, we have clearly not yet come to understand that the solution for Italy is also democratisation of the responsibility for the health of our country with respect to corruptive phenomena. I believe there is an anthropological difficulty in seeing that the subject has the ability to question the action of his overlapping, difficulties that must be overcome even in a truly democratic dimension of the management of our country. [[Applause from the M5S Group and the Senators Molinari and Vacciano.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-897.ana.u16	Senator Mussini, I have to make a point: the Latin quote that you attributed to Manzoni I would have attributed instead to São Paulo, in the letter to Titus, but we will verify who of the two is right. He's enlisted to speak Senator Giarrusso. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-897.ana.u17	Mr President, I give up the floor.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-897.ana.u18	We take note of that.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-897.ana.u19	He's enlisted to speak Senator Malan. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-897.ana.u20	Mr President, the need to combat corruption and, in particular, against those who make decisions that are contrary to the public good, is something that I not only share, but which I practice, particularly in this House. However, I believe that this must be done in compliance with the rules, without turning our country and our public and private offices into a state of police and delation, where it is all the more encouraged the more general it is. I'll explain. We always have the usual problem, especially in this legislature: the title is always shared and there are always beautiful things, like good school (and who is not for good school?); jobs act (and who is it to not create jobs, even if perhaps would like them in Italian language?); Now, it is a question of defending those who report irregularities or illegal acts in the public administration. More than just and I fully share it, but I find it hateful to take advantage of public positions to harm the public thing that you administer, for the benefit of yourself or others (and when it is for the benefit of others, there will evidently be a gratitude from this other person). I think it is even worse to violate the rules of public competitions, tendering and other things of this kind because, precisely where there should be regularity and fair competition with clear rules, especially when the rules are dictated by the State, there must be a severity towards those who commit irregularities. Having said that, with this measure, which has a beautiful title, something else is being done. Some interventions could have been made and some details of these rules are also positive, but the important thing is that we give the possibility to any worker, even temporary or firms outside the public administration, to earn several years of protection from any kind of organizational act - as defined in the law - that could have negative repercussions on the person himself. Dear colleagues of the 5 Star Movement, that you are the main protagonists who have pushed for this provision and that you have a feedback in the country because the Italians perfectly share what I said and that you say and, that is, that corruption must be fought, the problem is not so simple: it would be too easy if there were those with the label of the good, that we must protect in any case, and those with the label of the bad guys, that we must slaughter in any case. That would be very easy. It's like fighting waste in public administration. If there were the budget item'sprechi', we would delete that item and we would be fine. It is not so in real life; it is not said that anyone who generally signals any unlawful conduct by public administration is the good and that the person affected by this report is the bad guy. That is why courts exist; that is why an accusation, at least in our country, is not enough to condemn a person. A few days ago a great rebellious hero and protagonist of the Cuban revolution that did this was celebrated. In Cuba the suspect was enough to be put to Paredón, that is, condemned to the death penalty, led by the aforementioned character, reproduced on many commercial shirts. If this is the justice in which you believe, then this provision is fine. Otherwise we have to think about the reflections that, if this law were passed, it would have on the real life of public administration. Illustrious colleagues, have you ever wondered why entrepreneurs complain that it takes three or four years to open a factory in Italy and, instead, in France, Switzerland and Germany - I'm not talking about strange countries or facets with rules or rogue states - to do the same thing one or two need to do the same? Will there be a reason? Bad luck? Will it be because of the Italian climate or because the public administration is slow and paralyzed for many reasons (such as the excess of controls, certifications and against certifications)? Or, above all, will it be the fact that a manager of the Italian public administration who grants permission, for example, to build a plant that will then produce and create jobs, has the fear that someone will come and say that maybe he did it to do someone a favor? Yesterday he was terrified, with this law he will have the certainty, because to that worker - maybe he is a worker - he does so to say, in the sense that he has no particular love for his work - it will be enough to submit a report - well known: an alert and not a complaint - to find himself protected against any measure. Have you ever heard of the fact that there is not much meritocracy in public administration? They say, then we do the conferences on this topic and maybe we don't practice it very much. Then a law is passed that will make it even more difficult, indeed very risky for an executive to try to make the difference between the worker who does not work and the worker who engages. Everywhere, and especially in public offices, a worker who does not do his job, as well as causing damage to the community, because the citizens who wait for a service will not have it, will force a colleague of his to work for two. [[Applause from Senators Fucksia and Rizzotti]] Whoever worked knows. Those who have never actually worked might not know. Of course there are also some Adamentine figures, but even today we can denounce those who commit an offense because there are protections. With a generic, all-inclusive wording, however, it will be enough for a worker who is a little reluctant to work - in addition to the many weapons he has at his disposal today - to make a general warning, a recommendation to the person responsible for corruption or the ANAC and then, while maintaining the absolute guarantee of his anonymity, he will be able to enjoy years and years of protection with respect to his working conditions. Therefore: "Meritocracy," bye-bye-bye. And then, if that worker is already a little ahead over the years, the pension will come and, in the meantime, the administration will be paralyzed and the merit trampled on. I would also like to stress that these measures are incredibly broad, because they also relate to employees and consultants, with any type of contract or assignment, as well as to workers and collaborators in any capacity of companies supplying goods or services and carrying out works in favour of the public administration. There is a risk that this rule will be extremely effective, not to fight corruption, but to prevent public administration from working. What happens then? Many companies will move abroad, which they already do. We encourage them further. [[Applause from Senators Fucksia and Rizzotti]] Then, when we completely lack jobs and many companies continue to go from Italy to abroad, we will attribute this to bad luck, climate, who knows what. Instead, it must be attributed to laws such as the one under consideration, which make public administration incapable of acting. You have never seen an executive punished for having given a late authorization to start a productive activity; instead, if he gives an authorization with which you can finally produce and assume, risks the delaction anonymously with generic reports that block the public administration and guarantee the reporting agent from any measure. [[Applause from the FI-PdL XVII Group and Senator Fucksia]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-897.ana.u21	Senator Ichino is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-897.ana.u22	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I believe that Senators Buemi, Sacconi, Mazzoni and Compagna, who spoke yesterday and today, can give me credit for a position that is always attentive to the reasons for liberal guaranteeing, far from any legalist drive. I take this credit to ask them to give greater attention to the actual content of the draft law in question than their speeches do. It seems to me, moreover, that the debates of yesterday and this morning have recorded much superficiality on both sides: both by those who wanted to present this bill as a sort of institutional incitement to defamatory delation or as an attack on the freedom of enterprise; and by those who presented it as a kind of panacea, able to magically cleanse our country from all forms of corruption. This bill is neither one thing nor the other. To Senator Malan, who yesterday spoke of an attack on the freedom of enterprise, I would point out that, on the contrary, Article 2 of the bill is placed precisely to protect the company constituted in company form, against the risk of the heavy administrative sanctions provided for by Legislative Decree No 231 of 2001 resulting from episodes of corruption for which its managers or employees are responsible. In fact, it says the norm: if you provide your company structure with the instrumentation that we indicate here to prevent and combat malversations, that is at least one organ-filter able to collect and evaluate the reports of irregularities coming through the protected channel that is indicated here, you company will not be held responsible administratively for the crimes possibly committed by your employees. What attack on freedom of enterprise? On the contrary, it is a measure aimed at protecting the healthy and correct undertaking. What is the filter organ that the bill provides for? This is an instrument which we take back from the legal systems of countries which are as many cradles of the rule of law and individual freedoms: the United Kingdom and the United States of America. Senators Sacconi, Compagna and Mazzoni spoke about this attack on freedom and return to the police state! This is an instrument that has been usefully activated also for Expo 2015 in Milan, without giving rise to any police drift or any excess delatory, and instead contributing effectively to prevent malversations. To understand what this is about, I invite colleagues to put themselves in the shoes of the employee of a company or an administration that, because of the performance of its work, has become aware of something that seems dangerously irregular: for example the violation of a business procedure by a purchasing office (let me give just one example). It may be that it was only an isolated irregularity, without malice and without harm, but it may also be that there is a serious malpractice behind it. What can our employee or even collaborator do? To file a complaint with the court? If it turns out that there is no crime, this could also constitute a serious lack of the employer or the administration, even a crime of breach of professional or business secrecy. Talk to a business manager about it? But what executive? What if that's convoluted or complacent with the wrongdoer? And, besides, how can we not get into a bad light as a nosy troublemaker? The good practice that the new rule indicates to companies - I repeat: on the basis of the best international experience in this field - is primarily to equip their own structure with a body that is responsible for receiving any such information, to examine its merits and implications, to close it if it is considered not significant, to carry out the necessary investigations if instead there is a danger of malpractice. The good practice is also to activate at least one channel of communication reserved for the employee, collaborator or even third party, that allows him to make the alert with the certainty that it will be received by those who are able to evaluate the weight and by those who guarantee to make only good use of it. No 'accounts', therefore, Mr Buemi. No anonymity, colleague Fucksia. On the contrary, this good practice serves precisely to eliminate every possible reason for the anonymous letter, protecting the name of those who, assuming their responsibilities, collaborate in preventing or discovering the malversation and, on the other hand, protecting it against discrimination or reprisals. I would like to address Mr Malan on this point, and I pointed out this in my speech yesterday: this protection is nothing more than a specification of a prohibition of discrimination and retaliation which is already the general principle of our legal system. In this respect, the law adds nothing to what could already be applied under Article 15 of the Workers' Statute. In the absence of this filter organ and this confidential communication channel, what could and should the person in question do? Will it be correct to communicate the news to an executive with whom there is greater familiarity or instead to third parties? And to which third parties? In the latter case, is there no risk of incurring the crime of defamation or slander, or of violating professional or professional secrecy? And again: what is the limit of confidential business information that can be revealed? And what if the assumptions from the information communicated are unfounded, or the information itself irrelevant? Will there be a risk of negative consequences for those who communicate information in good faith? Today our order does not clearly indicate what should be done who is in this difficult and uncomfortable situation, with the consequence that it is stimulated the silence dictated by a misconceived prudence, even when the intention of the person in question would not be the omerty. Article 622 of the Criminal Code provides that: "Whoever, having news, because of his own state or office, or because of his own profession or art, of a secret, reveals it, without just cause (...) is punished, if from the fact it can derive harm, with imprisonment etc. It is very important to focus on the crucial junction of this provision: that of the right cause of disclosure, which applies not only to professional secrecy, but also to any other obligation of secrecy or secrecy (in particular to the business secret referred to in Article 2105 of the Civil Code, to which all employees of a private company are held, and to the professional secrecy referred to in Article 326 of the Criminal Code, to which all civil servants are held). It is, in essence, a principle of balancing the opposing interests, but the current order leaves an area of indeterminateness, a grey zone. The balance between these interests in some cases is really difficult; and on this balance depends on a criminal liability of the public or private employee that reveals confidential business or administration events. The bill in our examination merely specifies the way in which this grey area of the standard must be filled and applied. Before concluding, Mr President, I would like to be able to hand over the text of my speech so that it can be annexed to the Minutes of today's sitting.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-897.ana.u23	Conclude, Senator Ichino. The Presidency authorizes you to hand over the text of your speech.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-897.ana.u24	ICHINO (PD). On the last point that I have discussed, it will be appropriate to adopt an amendment which the rapporteur has already tabled, aimed at clarifying the discipline of the subject by means of an additional article. In all this, I don't see anything as a policeman. While I see a step forward in the direction of our country's alignment with the avant-garde ones in cultivating civic aptitudes, the widespread and rooted civic sense. We need it!
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-897.ana.u25	The general debate is closed. The rapporteur and the representative of the Government do not intend to intervene in the reply. I would like to say that the Presidency - and it is being distributed - has received the opinion of the 5th standing Commission on the draft law under consideration and on the amendments, which will be published in the annex to today's report. We shall now proceed to the examination of Article 1, on which amendments have been tabled and an agenda to be presented and on which I invite the rapporteur and the representative of the Government to give their views.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-897.ana.u26	Mr President, I am against all the amendments, with the exception of 1,215, identical to 1,216, subject to the following rewording: The rules referred to in this Article shall also apply to workers and collaborators of undertakings supplying goods or services and carrying out works in favour of the public administration. The opinion was also in favour of 1,226, with the following rewording: The reporting agent who is dismissed because of the alert is reinstated in the workplace, pursuant to Article 2 of Legislative Decree no. 23 of March 2015. Of course, the opinion is also in favour of the two amendments I signed. On the agenda, Mr G 1,200, I am in favour of adopting this report.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-897.ana.u27	Mr President, the Government's opinion is in line with that of the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-897.ana.u28	I would ask the presenters whether they accept the rewordings proposed by the rapporteur. MALAN (FI-PdL XVII). Yes, ma'am.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-897.ana.u29	Yes, Mr President, I accept the rewording of Amendment No 1,226 and withdraw Amendment No 1,57, because the rapporteur is in favour of accepting the agenda for G1,200 of which we are signatories.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-897.ana.u30	We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment No 1,200. MARTELLI (M5S). We call for simultaneous ballots to be carried out by electronic means. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1,200, tabled by Senator Malan and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Let us move on to Amendment No 1,201, on which the 5th Commission has expressed its opposition under Article 81 of the Constitution.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-897.ana.u31	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-897.ana.u32	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-897.ana.u33	MUSSINI (Mixed). Mr President, in addition to asking for the vote, I would like to know what the amendments to the 5th Commission have been in favour of Article 81 of the Constitution. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I said that the text of the opinion was distributed. However, I shall quote them from time to time in the course of the vote. MUSSINI (Mixed). I take the opportunity to make a very brief explanation of vote, although I do not really know if it will be so short. I will try to be as concise as possible. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. You spoke more than 17 minutes in general discussion, Senator. MUSSINI (Mixed). I do not think that I am keeping this Senate Assembly busy with my ramblings, as others do. In Amendment 1,201, I quote the text of the bill to my signature, which I consider to be much more capable of genuinely protecting the reporter. In the draft law now in our examination there are many questions that make me ask what are the real safeguards, if it were not for the reference - to paragraph 5 of Article 1 of the provision to our examination - to the guidelines of the DAC. In fact, the text of the draft law signed by me made implementation of those guidelines - as the DAC has already done - clarifying a whole series of problems which, on the other hand, are evident in the measure under consideration and risk making it difficult to apply precisely on the protection front. I quote as an example the poor articulation between the provisions of paragraph 6 and those contained in the preceding paragraphs. It is established, in fact, that if it is established the absence of procedures for the forwarding and the management of the alerts, or the adoption of procedures that do not conform to those referred to in paragraph 5, the DAC applies to the person in charge the pecuniary administrative penalty. In this regard, questions arise. Where are the procedures? There's a generic reference. Who exactly is responsible? In the paragraph referred to, the term "responsible" is repeated three times. It would appear that they are three different leaders, but it is not specified. What are the obligations to which sanctions relate? Paragraph 8 provides for protection for the reporting agent, providing that, if dismissed, he is entitled to be reinstated. Here, then, is the difficult question of the reinstatement, which clearly involves recourse to the judge of employment. But who, in fact, puts the status of reporter in the hands of the judge at work? How does the labour judge determine that dismissal is actually due to retaliation? I think everyone can imagine that the employer who fires will never write that the dismissal is due to an alert. This and other inconsistencies in the text of the measure in question prompt me to make the request for the vote on Amendment 1,201, which is intended to replace Article 1 in its entirety. The amendment proposal, moreover, is intended to carry out the operation - in my view it is necessary - to equate all measures relating to the employee of a public administration and all other categories identified as such with those relating to the private sector worker. We do not understand why the private sector should not only be protected by the same procedures, but also - as we shall see during the examination of Article 2 - penalised. I may be the only one to vote in favour of the amendment, but I felt I had to make it clear that it is clearer and more effective than the proposal adopted in the House of Deputies and passed on to the competent Commission here in the Senate. Then the story will be right, but it is often accepted.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-897.ana.u34	Pursuant to Rule 102-bis of the Rules of Procedure, I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of Amendment 1,201, tabled by Senator Mussini. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 1,202.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-897.ana.u35	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-897.ana.u36	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-897.ana.u37	MALAN (FI-PdL XVII). Mr President, Amendment 1,202 seeks to amend the first period of Article 1, stating that illegal conduct must concern or involve the administration of which the civil servant is a member, or bodies on which such administration depends. Otherwise, it is not even necessary to make an accusation to the administration of which you are a member, but a general accusation is sufficient for any other; and I quote the example of the ministerial employee who makes an accusation that concerns any municipality of our country, claiming that he had the suspicion - as I have heard from several supporters of this text - that something does not go somewhere. At least we're referring to the specific fact. One of the serious negative aspects of the text in our examination is that it more than warnings, i.e. detailed complaints, encourages precisely those which are not detailed. A complaint, which is resolved in making sure - who knows after how long - that there is no illegal behaviour, if done in bad faith or with a completely incorrect condition, can incur the crime of slander. On the other hand, if it is a general warning, addressed to the responsible for the fight against corruption, it does not lead to all this. The more general it is and the more difficult it is for the competent magistrate to deal with it. In fact, someone should have heard about the enormous overload of practices charged to every magistrate. The latter, therefore, rightly, will first deal with important issues and sensible reports and then take a look at the senseless ones. Meanwhile time passes, those who are subject to the report are paralyzed and the person who made the report is protected, cannot be moved and it is not possible to do anything whatever this person does. So it is written in the text. It's written as determined by the alert. It is clear, however, that given the spirit of the bill, there is a risk that any sanction will be taken against the alleged hero who makes a generic accusation will be deemed related. Since, by taking such measures, we risk not simply being accused of not having acted well, but of receiving heavy fines, no one will take them. I repeat then that there is already the problem of the almost impossibility of promoting merit in public administration today. The government's public administration reform claims to go in this direction, but I suspect that it is limited to saying so. In this way, however, we delete everything. In fact, if someone is finally, a good time, subject to some form of differentiation of treatment because he does nothing compared to his colleague, who besides doing his own work also does his own, it will be enough to make a report to the anti-corruption manager, will pass the years and this will be in place. When it comes to the end, you will see: if anything you will make a new alert and, sooner or later, your pension will come. It would be necessary to think at least of common sense measures and write that the reports should concern the administration of which you are a member. You can't think of reports of someone who, when he was working at a Ministry, had heard that in the municipality, who knows where, there was perhaps something, having arrived at a practice that had given him some suspicion. There will be a multiplier effect and this is a rule based on the assumption that it is easy to distinguish the good from the bad guys, as was the case in western movies where the good guys had the white hat and the bad guys had the black hat. But in reality it doesn't work that way. In reality it happens that a worker who should do his job does not do it; it happens that the person who makes a complaint is in good faith and it happens that the accused has not committed any wrongs, indeed, perhaps tried to do things right. This belongs to the reality of the facts and we cannot avoid it. But we can't even say that people with white hats can do what they want. This is the comic mentality with which we approach the problem. Here, however, we are not talking about fiction, but about reality, that is that it paralyzes public administration especially when it comes to making decisions that favor the development of the country. We should resign ourselves to the idea that crime should be punished when it happens; we must punish those who commit the crime, even if it is necessary to protect those who provide evidence for the crime. However, it is not possible to put in the hands of anyone a very heavy weapon that, at the same time, protects themselves and seriously harms the public administration. [[Applause from the FL Group (Id-PL, PLI) and Senator Rizzotti.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-897.ana.u38	I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Amendment 1,202 tabled by Senator Malan and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 1,203.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-897.ana.u39	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-897.ana.u40	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-897.ana.u41	MALAN (FI-PdL XVII). Mr President, I will speak less about what I did about the previous amendment, because the arguments are very similar. Amendment 1,203 calls for concrete and objective evidence and, therefore, that there is no general indication. I repeat that the Forza Italia Group and I are perfectly in agreement to protect those who report crimes or conduct illegal acts in the public administration. Personally, I also do so through a number of questions, which are then weirdly eluded. I asked - for example - to know who was responsible for a certain signature that had a company cash 600 million, that otherwise would not have cashed, and for four years I have been waiting to know who, at the Ministry of Transport, put that signature. I tried with the parliamentary question; I tried with access to the acts referred to in Law No 241 of 1990; I tried with the Law Madia, but I always found a rubber wall. What do you give me in return under this law? It is necessary to encourage those who bring evidence and not those who simply curse, who do not need to encourage. It would be enough to have listened to "The barber of Seville" - it would also be a way to listen to a couple of hours of good music - to know that slander is a breeze that begins thin and then goes on like a rhombus of cannon. With this measure we give the incentive to slander, but it must be done a little softly. If made openly, and perhaps in good faith, then one risks, because in the end - I repeat in the end - if it turns out that the accusation was totally unfounded and that one in bad faith brought acts and provided false elements, then it goes in a certain way. But if one has made general accusations, without providing evidence, protects himself, it harms the administration of which he belongs, and the community, exactly as if he had held a behavior contrary to the public administration, which is what one wants to punish. At least we ask to provide evidence. We do not leave such a general rule that - I repeat - incites even those who have evidence not to provide them, because it does not suit them: if it provides evidence, of which perhaps it is not certain, there is a risk that the evidence proves to be false. If he does not provide evidence, he may merely say he has suspicion over something that he once, in a certain circumstance, heard in a corridor of the Ministry or the City Hall or the place where he works. Let's start listening to the specific reports. In this regard too, I could make a list of the very precise reports that I have made to the judiciary and with some in-depth analysis of the exhibits, so much so that there is still nothing concrete, although there is damage to the public for billions. But I have provided some concrete elements. On the other hand, it is appropriate to provide vague elements which, if you reject this amendment, will be confirmed, because there will be no possibility of sanctions and intervention to determine where the reality is and in the meantime the community will suffer damage.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-897.ana.u42	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-897.ana.u43	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-897.ana.u44	BUEMI (Aut (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT)-PSI-MAIE). Mr President, I would like to endorse Amendment No 1,203, which was first signed by Mr Malan, and I declare that I am voting in favour of it. In fact, the alert must be precise and detailed. Generality can lead to rather sui generis interpretations. I say to Mr Malan that I too am waiting for the answer from the Ministry itself to another question, which was the protagonist of the chief of staff of the time with several functions, both of controller and of controlled, on which, frankly, a veil of confidentiality and piety has been laid out with respect to the specific situation. But we, Mr Malan, have not had the benefit of non-transfer. In fact, in the next legislature, I stayed home.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-897.ana.u45	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-897.ana.u46	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-897.ana.u47	ICHINO (PD). Mr President, I would like to say to Senator Malan that this Parliament is really such if those who are part of it, as well as talking, listen. I have answered both yesterday and today, it seems to me rather accomplished, to his criticism, observing on anti-discrimination protection that it is by no means true that this draft law establishes automatic and indiscriminate protection for anyone who makes an alert. The draft law in question only specifies that the person making an alert is protected by the same anti-discrimination protection as it applies in general; it is not indiscriminate at all, because it is only directed against acts of retaliation, i.e. aimed at punishing the fact of having reported; which means that instead all transfer and dismissal measures not motivated by retaliation are treated exactly as with respect to all other employees of the company or public body. As for the breeze of slander, evoked by Senator Malan, the protected channel established by this bill aims precisely to avoid that mechanism that rightly wants to be prevented. The slander, in fact, feeds on the widespread murmuring, of a communication not verified, while in this case it is established that the signal must be made to an organ-filter, that is to say to the person specifically responsible for verifying the validity and the relevance of the reported. This means that it can also make sense to point out something that shows the appearance of the irregularity, even if there is no complete evidence of the irregularity itself and the damage that can result from it. However, it is precisely the fact that this alert takes place on a confidential basis, thus without causing any collateral damage, and it is addressed to the body to assess it and to close it immediately if it is a matter of irrelevant reporting, that allows the citizen, the public employee or even the private employee, in good faith, to report the irregularity. For example: this contract seems to me to be the tip of the iceberg of an embezzlement; I do not want any damage to society or to the individual, but I do ask that the competent person verify. This is the opposite of malicious delation or slander; and the function of the organ-filter is precisely that which guarantees an adequate treatment of the signal itself. It may be that what I say is not true, that the bill does not say this, does not have this effect, but I would ask Senator Malan not to mechanically repeat the same things said yesterday without at least replying to the individual arguments and rebuttals that have been proposed to him; otherwise the debate here is perfectly useless.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-897.ana.u48	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-897.ana.u49	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-897.ana.u50	COMPAGNA (FL (Id-PL, PLI)). Mr President, I speak without forcing ping pong between yesterday's debate and today's debate, because we are at a different stage of discussion and possible adoption of the amendments. As far as possible, I tried, both yesterday and today - I assure you, in absolute good faith - to listen to the arguments other than my own of Senator Ichino, but I cannot understand them. I will personally vote in favour of the proposal tabled by Senator Malan and I would also ask him for the courtesy of allowing me to add my signature to his amendment. In this morning's speech, Senator Ichino said "nothing of policemen," "nothing outside the rule of law". Very well: he may consider Senator Malan's amendment useless and redundant, that is, the request for concrete and objective elements, but I do not understand his opposition. In this House we must listen to each other as much as possible without immobilising ourselves to the blackmail of words, because words are fragile. If you want to maintain the rule of law, you have to be careful, because when you speak politically it is clear that the opponent of the rule of law is the state of police, but the introduction of the adjectives "concrete and objective," useless for Senator Ichino and for the rapporteur even pleonastic and hostile, is instead a guarantee against suspicion and therefore against blackmail. We want a less blackmailing and less blackmailing Italy, and I do not doubt that Senator Ichino also wants it, but I cannot understand why, in defending the spirit and the imprint of this bill, he has so much renegency to make his own that guarantee element that would add the words proposed by Senator Malan with his amendment, which will still have my vote in favour. [[Applause from the FL Group (Id-PL, PLI).]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-897.ana.u51	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-897.ana.u52	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-897.ana.u53	FALANGA (ALA-SCLP). Mr President, I rise to vote in favour of the amendment tabled by Senator Malan, to which I would ask if I could support it on behalf of my Group. I would merely point out to Senator Ichino that even the prosecutor, in order to initiate a criminal liability investigation, must be in possession of concrete evidence and at least presumptive evidence that can allow the hypothesis of unlawful conduct to be imagined or configured. On the other hand, by allowing any public employee to have an action taken by the anti-corruption authority or at least a proxy on the basis of nothing, just a simple suspicion, it seems to me that the possibility is given to a number of subjects in the public administration who intend to do so also to exploit, if necessary, this rule. In demanding that at least concrete evidence of illegal conduct be provided, it seems to me that Senator Malan does not demand much, but only respect for a general principle, according to which, in order to initiate investigations and investigations of a person, it is necessary to start from at least concrete evidence that he has committed an unlawful fact. I therefore do not understand why Senator Ichino's accession to this subject is not included, because it seems to me that we are all going in the same direction, as Senator Compagna said, but with two different methods for starting certain activities in the public administration.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-897.ana.u54	I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Amendment 1,203 tabled by Senator Malan and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 1.5.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-897.ana.u55	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-897.ana.u56	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-897.ana.u57	CRIMI (M5S). Mr President, I withdraw Amendment 1.5. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. The Presidency takes note of this. We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 1,204.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-897.ana.u58	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-897.ana.u59	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-897.ana.u60	MALAN (FI-PdL XVII). Mr President, here we are again, in an even more limited way, calling for concrete evidence to be given. I would like to join my fellow Members, Compañera and Falanga, whom I thank, who ask Senator Ichino why he is opposed to specifying that concrete evidence should be given. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator Malan, you can't go on with this kind of ping pong, so everyone responds to each other and sometimes makes demands. MALAN (FI-PdL XVII). Mr President, I have been urged. Bearing in mind that there is no obligation to prosecute here, so we know well that Senator Ichino is not obliged to respond, this is a solicitation like what he did to me. When I spoke of slander, I meant that the difference was right here, between chatter and concrete things. Then there is another difference: the slander of which is spoken in the Barber of Seville is slander in the general sense, not in the sense of the criminal offence. To say that it is not a question of chatter but of the act of reporting to the competent authority is tantamount to sanctioning at the judicial level what, otherwise, would be normal chatter. Who, for Christ's sake, is annoying, but perhaps a little more annoying is a rule that risks putting someone in jail without guilt. Let us introduce this element, please, also because other elements of this law escape me. For example, in paragraph 3 of Article 1 it is said that the identity of the reporting agent cannot be disclosed. But then how does this reporter get hit by a measure? Paragraph 1 assumes that, although there is a guarantee of anonymity in paragraph 3, this guarantee is violated. And by whom can it be violated? By the head of the anti-corruption, the DAC itself or the judicial authority. How else would it be possible to take action against this person because of the alert? Therefore, this means that, in reality, the connection with the alert is made automatically, namely: if an executive takes a measure against an employee, of which he cannot know if he has made an alert, this manager risks sanctions from 5,000 to 30,000 euros, unless more serious cases have been taken in case the so-called discriminatory measures have been taken, but that is another issue. This means that there is a danger that, if an executive wants to take a measure or a decision against an employee, of a person who somehow depends on him, in the case of this person, anonymously as far as he is concerned, that is, without him knowing it, he reported an irregular conduct of his own, this manager risks a sanction without knowing it. Perhaps, then, the law is made with some understanding, but the laws underlying it refer me to the laws of the Twelve Tablets, when in ancient Rome they put the laws in writing to prevent those who applied them changing them according to the case and in this also Hammurabi took a step forward. If instead we want to go back to before Hammurabi, say it, because here it is written this: it is written that if an executive takes a measure against an employee without knowing that this employee had made an alert against the one who takes this measure, the one who takes the measure of sanction against the employee can be punished. It would be interesting to understand the functioning of this law. I repeat: at least we ask for evidence, because otherwise anything really can happen. And I forgot to table an amendment which also called for this evidence not to be known already: applying this rule, in fact, its benefits are achieved even if one takes very good news and signals it to the head of anti-corruption. Nowhere does it say that, if the news is not decisive or if the thousandth person denouncing it, the protections are no longer there. I suggest, then, to those who want to take advantage of this law, to take one of my questions about certain wizards made on motorway concessions and to bring them to the attention of the responsible anti-corruption, saying that he has seen them because of his work (and is there): although that public thing is known - although not too much, because the media hide it - and already reported to the judicial authority, it will be protected. Therefore, it is enough to settle down and it is not even necessary to take responsibility. If it were to bring concrete evidence - perhaps I should have added the original and concret aggressiveness or new ones - it would change things. Instead, so, I can take a well-known fact: I heard that in Rome there were problems with the issue of Mafia Capitale, while I was in the office I had to consult a newspaper and I knew it, I marked it and I am protected. In short, this is a manifest law, but as such it should stop precisely at this: present a bill, make a press conference, make yourself beautiful and then close there, because here we are in a legislative Chamber, not in a press conference room. [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-897.ana.u61	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-897.ana.u62	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-897.ana.u63	FALANGA (ALA-SCLP). Mr President, when I ask Senator Malan, from all my Group, to be able to sign Amendment No 1,204, I would like to ask a question to Senator Ichino, who has just spoken: can you please tell me what the alert is? From a purely legal point of view, however, because I know what it means to signal, but not what legal effect the alert has. Here we are determining legal effects as a result of a general warning. When we add the concrete facts about which Senator Malan speaks in his amendment, then that statement assumes the connotations of a complaint, with all the consequences possibly criminally relevant in case those facts were not established or were not true. However, with the simple warning, something is introduced into our system that initiates criminal proceedings and an investigation with an act that does not have and cannot have any legal qualification. Someone then has to tell me - and it is good that it remains in the proceedings of this Senate - what we mean by "signalation", what configuration it has from the technical and legal point of view and what effects it produces, in case it does not contain true facts and established by whom will possibly lead the investigations.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-897.ana.u64	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-897.ana.u65	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-897.ana.u66	FUCKSIA (FL (Id-PL, PLI)). Mr President, by saying that our Group wishes to subscribe to all the amendments tabled by Senator Malan, I would like to add one thing: this culture of suspicion, which is not supported by concrete elements, which working climate will create in our public and private companies? It's gonna be a crazy stress. Then there is another fact. Everyone knows my esteem and affection for Senator Ichino, whom I know as an intellectually correct and refined person. I think, however, that in this case he makes a small mistake: since omnia Munda Mundis, being Senator Ichino an extremely correct person, attributes to everyone his own good faith. Instead, I would like to point out that behind this instrument of reporting there is no Jesus Christ, that is, the person who is integrity and perfect, because if we make this law because existing laws are not enough because corruption and bad intentions are diffused and hidden, then I must assume that even these structures, which may be named by the employer or by anyone, can have ulterior motives or be used to make preferential reports and exclusions. The tool itself is neither good nor bad, but its use can open scenarios in my opinion terrifying. I therefore urge you, in addition to signing the amendment, to reflect on this element of practicality because in vagueness you can say everything and the opposite of everything and you do great damage. This is a bill that escapes the intentions and I am convinced that, as it happened for Tangentopoli, so many executedists then took steps back (the same Di Pietro lately makes mea culpa), after, as the wheels spin, the greatest supporters of this bill will be those who weep most of all crocodile tears. [[Applause from Senator Sacconi.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-897.ana.u67	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-897.ana.u68	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-897.ana.u69	ICHINO (PD). Mr President, I would like to say briefly that the citizen, the employee, the employee or the collaborator is not a prosecutor. He cannot be burdened with an investigation into everything that emerges. On the other hand, in civil countries, any information on irregularities that may or may not be the tip of the crime's iceberg is considered useful for preventing malversation. The instrument that we are outlining is precisely to allow the news to reach those who must; and not in the form of scandalism to which we are accustomed precisely because of the absence of this channel, that is, in the form of the television interview, of the allusive intervention in the talk shows. This way of denouncing is penalized, because it is brought back to slander, defamation or revelations of business or office secrecy; while the report made correctly in the form that cannot cause collateral damage, and that offers to those who owe the instrument for verification, is privileged and is indicated to the citizen with civic sense as the correct way to inform those who have to. That is why it is wrong to charge the citizen with the burden of building an accusation based on evidence. It is not his job; and precisely for this reason I believe that none of us are going to turn him into a policeman or a prosecutor.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-897.ana.u70	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-897.ana.u71	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-897.ana.u72	BUEMI (Aut (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT)-PSI-MAIE). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, every time we introduce premium or protectionist mechanisms into our system, we have to expect a degenerate use of them. We have seen him in matters of repentance. I believe that we must prepare ourselves for an improper and degenerate use of this mechanism too, should the bill become law. Can you imagine an unfaithful civil servant, suspected of being in a condition of potential transfer or subsequent investigation by the internal bodies of the institutions to which he belongs? 11:44 a.m. (BUEMI follow-up). What should you do to protect yourself from any further removal or verification action? As long as he's on the alert and he's protected from anything. His manager may also be colliding with other environments, but perhaps on the specific fact concerning the complainant employee may be right because there are elements of positive need to remove that employee. Today's newspapers talk about two villas in a public park or a place where they shouldn't be in Rome. I have heard some interviews on television by public officials of a town hall in Rome with respect to the absolute lack of urbanization works in neighborhoods in which the houses were built; the houses were, yes, provided for by convention, but this at the same time also provided for the related urbanization works, which were not realized. Or there were sales made by way of derogation from the Convention which prevented them, if not under certain conditions. These are all serious situations, which already emerge only by looking at the city in which we live (but it is not a prerogative only of this city), within which it guavas a bit of everything. So what do we do? We give the possibility of shelter simply with a general warning, which is then up to others to ascertain. I believe that, instead, we need a precise assumption of responsibility, as I said in my speech in general debate: there are honest people in this country, who assume responsibility for reporting, because this is a civic duty and must not be protected by measures of particular privilege, which induce perverse behavior. A rule of law needs clear rules that are responsible. We have a press that we consider free, that has the possibility to make inquiries, if there is someone who has to report something and is afraid of retaliation talk about it with the press; the press does so many trivial investigations, goes to interview about the color of someone's panties and instead does not deal with things that concern the public administration, for which there would be arguments to sell throughout Italy. Then, ladies and gentlemen, I repeat: it is time for us to re-introduce preventive controls on the acts of the public administration, because this degeneration stems from the fact that there is no one left to control anything. [[Applause from the FI-PdL XVII and FL groups (ID-PL, PLI) and Senator Sacconi.]] If the City of Rome, with 60,000 employees, does not have an internal inspectorate, what do you want the Mayor of Rome to control, in particular in the face of certain high professional skills that we see today? [[Comments by Senators Marton and Montevecchi. Applause from the FI-PdL XVII and FL groups (ID-PL, PLI) and Senator Sacconi.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-897.ana.u73	I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1,204, tabled by Senator Malan and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Amendment 1,205, tabled by Senator Malan and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 1.9.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-897.ana.u74	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-897.ana.u75	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-897.ana.u76	MALAN (FI-PdL XVII). Madam President, I would like to point out this amendment as an indicative... CRIMI (M5S). Mr President, I asked to speak on this amendment. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I'm sorry, I didn't see you. He'll intervene later. Please, Senator Malan. MALAN (FI-PdL XVII). I would like to point out this amendment as an indication of what it should be like for Italy to have five stars. [[Applause from Senator Fucksia.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-897.ana.u77	Excuse me. Senator Crimes, did you intend to withdraw the amendment?
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-897.ana.u78	Madam President, we withdraw Amendment 1.9 and all subsequent amendments to Article 1.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-897.ana.u79	I take note of that. Senator Malan's explanation of vote therefore lapses. We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 1,206.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-897.ana.u80	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-897.ana.u81	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-897.ana.u82	CALIENDO (FI-PdL XVII). Madam President, I have heard a number of comments this morning. Well, I would like to say to Senator Ichino that when we adopt a rule we must always ask ourselves the question whether that rule, apart from the intentions of the legislator, does not lead to any problems within the public administration. According to the standard as it was - I listened carefully to what you said, Senator Ichino, and on that I agree - the reporter certainly does not have to do any verification or control. However, with respect to the text of the Chamber, both the reasonable belief that the complainant or the reporting agent should have had, as referred to in paragraph 2, and paragraph 8, have been eliminated. And so, since only the dole holds slander and defamation, I wonder what would happen if I, in order to cheat it, addressed any civil servant (not a senate employee) and sent him a report that Senator Ichino is treating, according to a rule, certain advantages. You realize that, with this system, we open the door to a myriad of thousands of reports, against which, correctly, we do not have to review the reporter. However, after that has made the report, since the news is generic and does not have to be a news dressed, what happens? We block much of the activity from DAC and disciplinary bodies. It should at least be stipulated that the alert should relate to the administration on which the worker depends, not in the sense of monitoring the news, but at least so that it has a very general reliability. Otherwise, do we realize that we are enabling any public employee to make a report on any person in this country? Look, this rule will have no effect on public administration. I'd like to be denied, but that won't be the case. There will not be so many reports on your office; just see the statistics of crimes against the public administration, which show that this huge situation of illegality is not there. So what is the reason why we want to extend the possibility of reporting to such a vast area, which is not controllable, while at the same time establishing that the reporting agent should not even be required to hypothetically verify its reliability? It will cost nothing to write to the DAC or the disciplinary bodies, who will have to carry out an administrative activity even if the news is completely unfounded, even if only to archive it. The limitation proposed by amendment 1,206, then, at the very least ensures that the alert should relate to its administration, having the guarantee of anonymity. I do not say that one, before making an alert, must carry out a verification but at least assess whether it is really destitute of any foundation, whether it is a gossip activity or even if it is a third party activity that conveys false news. Look, in that case, it is not the reporter who is responsible, because he has not committed malice and there is no slander or defamation. Do we realize that we are adopting a rule that in its implementation will be a disaster and that it will even lead to the inefficiency of the bodies we have created to combat corruption? I cannot understand the contrary opinion expressed on this amendment. This is an amendment which makes the reporting functional, at least from the point of view of the overall efficiency of the system. But if we leave the norm as it is, Senator Ichino, we no longer find justification. I understand everything you have said before, but it is difficult to justify the fact that the alert may relate to any sector of the public administration. I don't want to be investigated, but at least there should be a minimum of resistance, of attention to what is done with communication and reporting. That's all. If we don't predict a correction of this kind, then you shouldn't complain about the fact that the DAC doesn't work or that the disciplinary organs don't work. The rules must always be written with the attention to what the final result will be, what the effect of a given forecast will be. For this reason, I believe that the vote in favour of this amendment guarantees a true implementation of the aims of the rule. On the other hand, if you only want to make propaganda, go ahead, because, among other things, this rule, written in this way, will not have effect, but will determine situations of inactivity in DAC and disciplinary bodies. [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-897.ana.u83	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-897.ana.u84	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-897.ana.u85	FALANGA (ALA-SCLP). Madam President, in essence, by summing up Senator Caliendo's speech, we simply ask for a clear coordination between the criminal rules on the protection of citizens' good repute and this law. This coordination does not appear clear in the measure we are considering, so I would ask the rapporteur to consider this hypothesis and to pay attention to our comments. Because for others there is the hypothesis of the crime of slander and defamation and for the whisperer - because this is about whispering facts, not denouncing them - isn't it? That is why we are calling for this coordination, Mr President. In any case, I would ask you to endorse Senator Malan's amendment 1,206 and ask for a quorum check.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-897.ana.u86	Senator Falanga, we will vote by electronic procedure, so verification of the quorum is implicit. I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1,206, tabled by Senator Malan and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1,207, tabled by Senator Council and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 1,208.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-897.ana.u87	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-897.ana.u88	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-897.ana.u89	MALAN (FI-PdL XVII). Madam President, Amendment 1,208 was tabled before I realized the aporia resulting from the combination between paragraph 3 and paragraph 1, and I believe it is all the more useful now. In fact, this amendment calls for these measures, which not only cannot be taken but are heavily sanctioned, to be at least post-reported by the employee. Let me explain better: we always start from the right purpose to protect those who point out facts contrary to the public interest and illegal facts and we want to prevent those who report such facts from being subject to sanctions. However, there is the guarantee of anonymity, i.e. the non-knowledge of the identity of the person making the alert by the accused (of course, not by the Authority). Knowing this, it should be impossible to commit the crime referred to in paragraph 1, but it also punishes the conduct referred to in paragraph 1 put in place by the manager without knowing that an alert has been made that may have been made not only against him but against anyone. Therefore, if an executive, being absolutely sure of the fact of his own, even to slander, lightly and with a serene mind takes disciplinary decisions, that is organizational, as it is written in the text, it is enough that one of the employees concerned by the management measure has signalled an unlawful conduct - not of the manager who takes the measure, but of anyone, even totally foreign to the administration - that the same manager risks a minimum sanction of 5.000 euros. Are you kidding me? The manager of an office, who is absolutely certain of his good faith and good conduct, knows that he has always done everything - and I must say that, with all the bureaucratic obligations that the state imposes with billions of laws it is quite difficult to be absolutely certain that he has never made a mistake even a signature or anything else at least once, but suppose it is - he cannot lightly take organizational measures that can vaguely harm someone because if one of those who are affected by his measure has made a warning against others, maybe a person that the same manager despises and who fears to keep wrong behavior, the manager is struck with the penalty from 5,000 euros up. How do you carry on such a measure? I repeat: it was okay to present a bill to tell us that we are fighting corruption, but it had to end there. This is not the case, this is not how reality works: we have to write laws that work and that do not have much worse side effects than those resulting from the crimes we are told to fight. In this way public administration is paralysed. It is already very difficult today to take any kind of measures concerning the organization of workers, and in part this is an excellent thing because it is necessary to protect workers in general, whether they make reports or not. However, since we are in the world of reality and there are workers who behave badly alongside others who behave well - who, therefore, suffer twice the consequences of the behavior of those who behave badly, in other words who do not work - with this measure we make extremely risky for any manager responsible for an office to take measures that somehow reorganise the work and that, alas, as we know well, sometimes can create discomfort to someone, because if one of the people to whom the measure creates discomfort has made an alert - I repeat - also completely disconnected from the activity of the manager who adopts the measure, the latter risks a penalty of 5,000 euros up. That's what we're talking about. That is why I ask that, at least according to a vague logic, the decision should be subsequent, even if, given the anonymity of the alert referred to in paragraph 3, there is probably also the impossibility of knowing its timing. Otherwise, if an executive takes a measure and after a week one of the employees who are somehow damaged by that measure makes a report - and perhaps rightly so, because he knows that there is a measure that could harm him - the manager is hit by the penalty of 5,000 euros. Really? It was hard to write a standard worse than this. Let us at least try to remedy this by accepting the amendments. In this respect, I would like to thank the rapporteur for giving an opinion in favour of my amendment. However, this is a very small change which concerns a particular discipline of private companies. The structure of the measure is truly of rare irrationality. I wanted to use a heavier word, but it seems right to use this. [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-897.ana.u90	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-897.ana.u91	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-897.ana.u92	FALANGA (ALA-SCLP). Madam President, Article 1 (3) of the regulation states: If the dispute is based, in whole or in part, on the reporting and knowledge of the identity of the reporting agent is indispensable for the defense of the accused, the report will be usable for the purposes of the disciplinary procedure only in the presence of consent of the reporting agent (the so-called whisperer) to the disclosure of his identity. But do you realize that you are mortifying the right of defence? In order to defend himself, the blamed one needs to know the generalities of the whisperer, but he cannot know it, or - better - he can only know who he is if the blamed one gives consent to declare his identity. You do not realize how you are going along a path that goes in the direction of the protection of the correctness of public administration, but distorting the general principles of citizens' rights. In the norm you recognize the indispensability of the knowledge of the identity of the reporting agent for the purpose of defending the accused, however - against - you do not allow to exercise the right of defence, placing it in the discretion of the one who denounced the fact. While acknowledging good faith and good intentions, I believe that this morning in the Senate you are making statements that upset the general principles of our criminal law. Do not forget, gentlemen, that our country has always been defined as the cradle of law and we cannot afford to take certain measures, because we risk compromising our history of law and the legal civilization that is recognized to us worldwide. [[Applause from the ALA-SCCLP Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-897.ana.u93	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-897.ana.u94	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-897.ana.u95	SACCONI (AP-CpE-NCD). Madam President, I rise to confirm that I am in favour of this amendment, but above all to the concerns expressed earlier by my colleague, Mr Malan, specifically concerning public administrations. I do not think that once the measure has to be misguidedly approved, the reports in the public dimension will be, as has been said earlier, few. I mentioned earlier that we are talking about an environment in which the good employer is lacking and the sense of belonging to the function, although public, is very relative. As a result of these characteristics of the public office are manifested intensely, unfortunately, attitudes that move from feelings that are not noble, such as envy and jealousy. If there is a clear need in public functions, it is to strengthen the hierarchy and not to weaken it. We need community spirit, for one verse, but also hierarchy, for another. I believe, however, that in this way we will weaken the managerial responsibility that we have so much invoked since Legislative Decree No. 29 of 1993, but that we have never managed to make effective, also because we are strongly conditioned by the many delegitimantic mechanisms or inhibiting the assumption of managerial responsibilities. Through this measure we contribute to inhibiting such responsibility, frightening the manager, not putting him in a position to do what is right for the functioning of that office, including the sanctioning measures that are rare in public administrations and, where adopted, resolve almost always to the detriment of those who adopt them and not of those who should often be the justified recipient.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-897.ana.u96	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-897.ana.u97	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-897.ana.u98	FUCKSIA (FL (Id-PL, PLI)). Madam President, I would like to share the view of the employer as a good family father. This is specified by Legislative Decree No. 81 of 2008 and by many other regulations to protect workers and the working environment; in fact, we already have the representative of workers for security and a judiciary that should be addressed to do well, even if it often does not. I appreciated Senator Crimi who withdrew amendment 1.9 which referred to illegals or other facts or acts detrimental to the public interest, because we were really in fairy tales there. However, I believe that you have probably heard and read a few fairy tales in this House. To me perhaps they were told in excess, and this morning, at some point, I thought several times about the fairy tale of the wolf and the lamb of Esopus. The wolf asked the lamb how he dared numb the water he had to drink. The lamb replied that this was not possible because he drank the water that was before passing through him. The wolf then told him that six months earlier he had disgraced him. The lamb retorted that six months earlier he was not even born. The wolf then, claiming that it was probably his father who infamous him, whacked him. In the measure we are examining, it seems to me that there is the spirit of the wolf, and that we want to find in some way a device of arrogance and arrogance. Since, in fact, we give more money to DAC, I want to see who will make this expensive committee, how it will be structured and used. Definitely bad. Gentlemen, when we become exasperated and seek something that goes beyond the norm, beyond what is already there, we do not want a country with fewer laws, but with a greater number of laws, often useless and unjust, we move from justice to justiceism. However, as the proverb says, "too much tearing." I'm sorry for the Democratic Party, which obviously goes behind the populist cockles of the 5 Star Movement, because not following them seems to be on the other side, with the corrupt. That is absolutely not true. There is a limit to everything, a limit of reasonableness that would be good for a rule of law never to exceed. [[Applause from the FL Group (Id-PL, PLI) and FI-PdL XVII.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-897.ana.u99	I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1,208 tabled by Senator Malan and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment No 1.209.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-897.ana.u100	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-897.ana.u101	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-897.ana.u102	MALAN (FI-PdL XVII). Madam President, Amendment 1,209 calls for the rules referred to in the previous period not to apply to general organisational measures and, that is, that at least the general organisational measures of a public company, of a public office, should not be included among those that can be blocked if they involve a person who has reported a crime. It would be absurd to reorganise an office, a public structure, if one of the employees of this facility had made an alert. There is always the problem that I mark, and on which I have no answers: if paragraph 3 guarantees the unknowableness of the identity of the reporting agent, how does the manager, or in any case the manager, to prevent his actions to the disadvantage of that person? There are two cases: either the acts that are later called retorsive are punished, but only later; or the subject is punished only when the acts are carried out gently, that is, knowing it (and I understand that general legal rules should tell us). Therefore, this means that this rule is perfectly useless and totally unenforceable. In fact, if you can't know the identity of the reporter and it's a crime only when you take measures, which are then called backsliding, only when you know that the person is a reporter, then it means that the rule never applies. This is logical; logic should also be applied, as well as trying to appear on the media as great fighters against corruption. Perhaps also because in the municipalities administered by the supporters of this law the episodes were so numerous. Perhaps the 5 Star Movement hoped to show its abilities once put to the test; but since, once put to the test, it behaved like the others (to want to be be benevolent), then it presents flag norms. So, I'd say we're not here. If, however, the rule applies also in case it is not known that one of the persons affected by the measure or the person affected by a measure (also of organizational character), is the reporting agent, then the consequence is that never a manager will take any measure that creates any kind of discomfort, as paragraph 1 (it is not that I am inventing it), to all those who work under their responsibility, for fear of being subject to a penalty of 5,000 euros up. I'll say more. In particular, the manager will refrain from doing so with regard to a person who is particularly inclined to do his duty. These words for now remain on a sheet with the prestigious header of the Senate, but on the day that they were to become state law, these people would be exactly the ones who would immediately protect themselves by making some kind of general alert. That would be a mathematical thing. It is obvious that not all those who report illegals in public administration are bad workers; indeed, probably those who do so in good faith and providing evidence are also better as workers, and precisely because they are good workers, they are particularly outraged at the illicit phenomena that occur in public administration. But there will be both these types of workers and workers of the opposite type. Therefore, who will make a report, maybe he will be a good worker and maybe not. What is certain, however, is that a bad worker with a little salt in pumpkin will make a warning, because this will be protected. That's a certainty. Therefore, the manager who has to take action, will not take any action that will create any kind of discomfort to one of his employees, but above all he will never do so to a worker who is up to his duty, namely that - the moralists would say - he steals his salary, lives on the Italians' shoulders. But we give him protection and safe conduct with a law that may be written badly enough to be unenforceable, but I wouldn't trust him too much. Much less would I trust myself if I were in the position of that executive who thought to take a measure, with the utmost good faith, in order to make sure that those who work are better protected than those who do not work and those who do not do their duty suffer at least some negative consequence. This person will not do it, because he will fear taking fines from 5,000 euros up, which obviously a normal person certainly does not do lightly, also because a fine of 5,000 euros can come, but there may be many episodes and maybe there is more than one person who has made these reports; consequently, being a public manager who tries to do his duty will become something rich, but very rich, and you do not see why a very rich person should take the trouble of going to be a public manager, which is obviously a full-time job, risking sanctions and also reporting to the judicial or parajudicial authority.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-897.ana.u103	I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1,209, tabled by Senator Malan and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B).
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-897.ana.u104	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-897.ana.u105	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-897.ana.u106	Mr Calderoli (LN-Aut). Madam President, I would like to say that I would not have made this request if the progress of the work could have led to the conclusion of the examination of at least the amendments, but given how things are going, I fear that this will not happen in the morning of today. I therefore propose to the House that we finish our work early at 12.30 p.m. so that, being convened by a Presidency Council, Members of the Council may at least be allowed to see the documents to be examined and approved in this Assembly.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-897.ana.u107	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-897.ana.u108	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-897.ana.u109	CRIMI (M5S). Madam President, we are opposed to this request because it is clear that the Group of the Italian Forza Italia-Il Popolo della Libertà XVII Legislatura has been obstructive. [[Comments from the FI-PdL XVII Group]] Now obviously the North League also comes into support and we have only one thing to say: these are the warnings. The agreement on electoral law will lead to this. [[Applause from the M5S Group. Comments from the FI-PdL XVII Group]] I appeal to the party that said that it wants to bring this measure home, which is a law of dignity for our country, so that it can make us again a country that really fights against corruption. I therefore appeal to the Senators of the Democratic Party who so far have shown that they want to bring this law to conclusion as soon as possible: let us see if this will happen or if they will have to submit to blackmail the electoral law, so that it can pass to the Senate with the votes of Forza Italia and the North League.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-897.ana.u110	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-897.ana.u111	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-897.ana.u112	ZANDA (PD). Madam President, I would like to say that I was in doubt about Senator Calderoli's request, but I have now listened to Senator Crimi talking about blackmail and I do not accept that issues are put on this level, so I welcome Senator Calderoli's request. [[Ironic applause from the M5S Group. Applause from the PD and FI-PdL Group XVII]] MARTON (M5S). You're a clown! Shame on you, Zanda!
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-897.ana.u113	I put to the vote the proposal to postpone to another sitting the continuation of the discussion of the draft law in title, made by Senator Calderoli. It's approved. ENDRIZZI (M5S). Let's ask for a rehearsal. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I order the doors closed. We proceed to counter-test by electronic procedure. It's approved.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-897.ana.u114	On behalf of the Assembly, I greet the teachers and students of the Istituto comprensivo "Giuseppe Mazzini-Raffaele De Cesare" in Spinazzola, in the province of Barletta-Andria-Trani, who are attending our work. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-897.ana.u115	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-897.ana.u116	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-897.ana.u117	Mr Capelletti (M5S). Madam President, is it right for a person to choose to die because he does not receive health care? I'm talking about a seriously disabled, paraplegic and blind, but who would like to live, who would have the right to live. I'm talking about Veneto, which is a region where people who administer health care declare that it's one of the best in the world, but maybe only they declare it. This is the story of Loris Bertocco, published today on the front page of the Republic and probably we all know it. I wonder and ask you, Madam President, if you have the courtesy to listen to me, if you can consider a country that denies health care to those who more than anyone else would need it, if you can consider a country that, denying health care, incites suicide the weakest of its citizens. Today, Madam President, ending your life with a trip to Switzerland can become a tragic reality. I believe that Bertocco's letter, which many of us, like myself, have read, is perhaps the last attempt to seek help from the authorities and institutions. Given the dramatic and urgent nature of this situation, which concerns the lack or insufficient assistance to all serious disabled people who do not have their own resources to ensure the necessary care and to lead a dignified life, I ask the President of the Senate to be active in representing the President of the Veneto Region the concern of this institution with respect to the most serious violations of human rights, because we speak of the denial of the most important human right, which is the right to life. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-897.ana.u118	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-897.ana.u119	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-897.ana.u120	GIROTTO (M5S). Madam President, I would like to draw the attention of this House to yet another attempt to defend the interest of the few at the expense of the health of many. It is certainly not the only case in Italy, but I bring it back because it is happening right now. In a small Municipality of Veneto, Pederobba, there is a factory that involves serious pollution hazards that could presumably even get worse. This summer, the mayor of this municipality instructs a highly esteemed physician to conduct an epidemiological investigation. This doctor, who has already conducted similar investigations without any problem, not even from the point of view of sensitive data and privacy, manages to carry it out in six months and at very low costs, following a methodology defined as "case check". Also the local ULSS is immediately excited to be able to collaborate with this esteemed doctor. Two months pass and a total turn-off occurs, a 180-degree reversal of the course. ULSS says that this research cannot be done, because there are sensitive data problems and because the method is not good. And not only that: an ULSS executive is already allowed to draw conclusions. The body that should protect our health and, in order to do so, should carry out these investigations (and in fact proposes another) anticipates the conclusions, saying that there is no problem. The pollution plant that is thought to cause problems has no relevance and the ULSS, at the same time, says that it gives a modest, if not null, contribution. How can Dr. Cincetti of the ULSS of Treviso already draw conclusions if the studies have not been carried out? And the mayor, unfortunately, bends to the will of ULSS. Now, the factory in question is not a normal factory but a cement factory, which has been burning tires for twenty years and burning pet coke for forty years, the worst of the worst in oil. And now you would like to burn the plastic too: absolutely harmless materials to burn. This is yet another case in which politics, which has a say in the ULSS (we know, in fact, that it appoints the directors-general), has bent the will of a municipality that wanted to make clarity and wanted to conduct a study very fast, in six months, and cheap. Instead, it will make the ULSS one that will last ten years; therefore, we will have the answers in ten years. This is not the way to protect the health of a population. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-897.ana.u121	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-897.ana.u122	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-897.ana.u123	RICHIUTI (Art. 1-MDP). Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, our children must be taught joy and hope. Children and girls, girls and boys, are entitled to carefreeness, fun, play and even error. However, Madam President, these are not the best times to cultivate lightness of mind and joy. On our horizon stands the danger of fascist regurgitation, ignorance and junk. It is fresh news this morning that Forza Nuova insists on organizing an alleged march on Rome on October 28. A tragic re-enactment of the events that led to the twenty years, the elimination of opponents, racial laws and world war. Fortunately, the police station in Rome has already indicated that no public order notice has been received and that if the demonstration were to come it would be prohibited. Madam President, however, the laws must be enforced and there are several that prohibit the apology of crime, the incitement to criminals, the reconstitution of the Fascist Party. These laws are not applied with due rigour. Last week I had the answer to my question 3-03870 on the beach in Chioggia. A unsatisfactory response to which, in part, the concession holder, who dismissed the management officer who exhibited the symbols of the twenty-year period, has remedied. I therefore ask the answer to my question 3-03963, in an oral answer, on the Fascist associations.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-897.ana.u124	The motions, questions and questions received by the Presidency will be published in Annex B to today's report. I remember that the Senate will come back to meet in public today, at 4 p.m., with the agenda already printed and distributed. The sitting was closed at 12.33 p.m.
