ParlaMint-IT_2017-04-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-814.ana.u1	The sitting was opened at 16 p.m. The Minutes shall be read. Mr Petraglia, Secretary, gave a reading of the Minutes of the afternoon sitting on 20 April. PRESIDENT. - The debate is Since there were no comments, the Minutes were approved.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-04-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-814.ana.u2	The list of senators on leave and absent on assignment received from the Senate, as well as further communications to the Assembly, will be published in Annex B to today's Minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-04-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-814.ana.u3	The next item is the question and questions. The first question will be asked 3-03244 on the nature reserve of Torre Guaceto, in the province of Brindisi. The representative of the Government may answer this question.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-04-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-814.ana.u4	Madam President, with regard to the issues raised, on the basis of the elements acquired by the competent Directorates-General of the Ministry of the Environment and the protection of the territory and the sea, the following is true. With regard to the provisions of Article 25 of Legislative Decree No. 145 of 2015, implementing Directive No. 30 of 2013 of the European Union on the safety of offshore oil and gas operations and amending Directive No. 35 of 2004, it is represented that the Ministry of the Environment and the Protection of the Territory and the Sea, with the support of the Higher Institute for Environmental Protection and Research (ISPRA), has prepared, on the basis of a reconnaissance of the data and information available in this field, the first report on the effects for the marine ecosystem of the airgun technique, transmitted on 2 February last to the competent parliamentary committees. This is the first cognitive report on the effects on the marine environment of the use of airgun technology. The work has been prepared on the basis of the current scientific knowledge acquired and a work plan for 2017 has been identified to deepen a number of significant elements. In particular: a specific working group will be set up with the research bodies responsible for the various profiles of interest to systematically collect the scientific and technical experience in progress at international and national level, as well as to define a set of parameters necessary to monitor and evaluate impacts on marine ecosystems, including with regard to individual taxa. It was also considered appropriate to implement the systematic collection of information and data at sub-regional level, in line with what is already foreseen in the National Marine Strategy for the specific descriptor D11; the working group will also have the task of developing new specific guidelines on mitigation of the impacts of air activities more suited to the environmental peculiarities of the sub-regions of the Mediterranean, which will merge into guidelines to be applied by airgun users. To this end, appropriate hearings and meetings will be held to define standardized application of these guidelines and to ensure the collection of comparable data. The results of the working group's activities may form the basis, if the parliamentary seat considers it useful, for appropriate sector legislation. It should also be pointed out that the project of geophysical investigation and research at sea of hydrocarbons called 2D geophysical survey, and possibly 3D, in the area of the application for a permit for research at sea, presented by the company Global petrochemical limited SpA, on 14 October 2016, obtained Ministerial Decree No 284 of environmental compatibility, positive with prescriptions, on the basis of the opinion of the technical commission for verification of the environmental impact. During the environmental impact assessment investigation, both the content of the public's observations and those of the Region concerned by the project were assessed, as can be seen from the opinions of the Technical Committee for Environmental Impact Assessment EIA and SEA, which are an integral part of the aforementioned environmental compatibility decree. In the decree in question it is also reported that the Technical Commission for the verification of the environmental impact of EIA and VAS has assessed that habitats and species reported in the SIC/SPA, cannot be considered to be impacted by the project in the area of relevance of the protected site. It is also noted that in this area, in addition to the Marine Natural Reserve of Torre Guaceto, there is also the site Natura 2000 Torre Guaceto and Macchia San Giovanni and it has been established that among the objectives of conservation of these sites there are no aquatic species, such as cetaceans or sea turtles, potentially disturbed by the use of the airgun technique. It should also be noted that, among the requirements given in the EIA decree, many refer precisely to the identification of protection measures against marine mammals, the caretta caretta species, and the biological protection zones (ZTB). In the light of the information, the Ministry carries out the monitoring and implementation of the activities both towards the protected areas, and, in perspective, for the deepenings regarding the impacts of the airgun technique.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-04-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-814.ana.u5	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-04-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-814.ana.u6	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-04-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-814.ana.u7	ZIZA (Mixed). Madam President, I thank the Undersecretary Degani for her reply, but - alas - I am not at all satisfied, partly because on the subject of airgun technology there was a long debate in this House, on the occasion of the adoption of Law No 68 of 2015 and we were all dissatisfied with how the Ministry concluded it. On this subject, however, the position of several biologists and technicians of the subject is absolutely contrary. I therefore believe that the Ministry should open a comparison, also in the light of the requirements it has issued and check whether they really will be complied with. The news contained in the answer to the question, according to which there are no cetaceans and sea turtles, is absolutely false, because in the oasis of Torre Guaceto there is just a center for the recovery of sea turtles and, as you well said in the answer, these animals, as well as the cetaceans, are really put in trouble and in great danger by the technique of the airgun. I am therefore not satisfied at all and in the coming weeks we will be watching to verify if the prescriptions of the Ministry have actually been complied with or if, to date, there is nothing that gives us security regarding the marine protected area that is found in Carovigno, in the province of Brindisi, in the Upper Salento, and that constitutes one of the most important marine areas of Italy.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-04-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-814.ana.u8	Following is the question 3-03695 on the safeguard of the autonomy of the base of the military Navy of Brindisi. The representative of the Government may answer this question.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-04-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-814.ana.u9	Madam President, it should be pointed out that the regulatory framework governing the carrying out of negotiating activities aimed at the acquisition of goods and services necessary to ensure the operation of the maritime military instrument as a whole and, more generally, of the Armed Forces, has recently been the subject of profound innovations. This is, in summary, a regulatory reform characterized by the request for ANAC certification (National Anti-corruption Authority) for procurement stations and purchasing power stations as well as by the combination of similar functions, in order to avoid duplication of administrative activities. This has led to the inevitable need to adapt the administrative organisation of the Navy, in order to align it with the existing sector legislation which provides, in order to avoid duplication of functions, for a reduction of expenditure centres through their amalgamation. Clearly the framework of normative reference, with particular regard to the administrative-management organization of the center of Brindisi, in consideration of the elevated specificity acquired from the base, that it is assuming in its multiple operating realities the dimension of amphibious pole of reference of the Navy, the Staff of the Navy is working out an organizational plan so that the center of Brindisi can become contracting station to be entered in the qualified Register of the ANAC. In this context, the naval marine station of Brindisi, in the more of the study and realization of the aforementioned reorganization, not being momentarily in possession of the requirements to become contracting station, has been temporarily allocated, as administrative department, to the dependencies of Maristanav Taranto. Maristanav Brindisi will assume, in the short term, the role of sole Process Manager for all phases of the planning of the negotiating activities of interest, becoming again a supporting and structural element within the new qualified contracting station that will be established in the headquarters of Brindisi.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-04-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-814.ana.u10	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-04-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-814.ana.u11	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-04-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-814.ana.u12	ZIZA (Mixed). Madam President, I would like to thank the Under-Secretary for his reply and the Government for providing these clarifications, although we will ensure that these commitments, as described by the Under-Secretary, are maintained in the coming weeks. The city of Brindisi and its Province have already been downgraded with different choices made by the Government; I am referring to the loss of the harbour authority and the choice of the Leonardo Group to go to invest in Poland, with significant job losses. I thank the Ministry for having organized a visit during which I had the opportunity to verify directly, through the availability of both the military and the civil part, the will to find a meeting point with the Government through their trade union representatives. I am satisfied with the answer and I will ensure that the commitment is maintained.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-04-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-814.ana.u13	The questioning of the criteria for calculating the ISEE for disadvantaged persons follows 2-00319. I call Senator Paglini to explain this question.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-04-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-814.ana.u14	Madam President, my speech relates to an interview I had presented in November 2015. Unfortunately, it's been a long time. Interdependence is based on the ISEE calculation criteria for disadvantaged people. Given that the ISEE is the indicator of the equivalent economic situation and the instrument for assessing the economic situation of those requiring facilitated social benefits, it is calculated with reference to the applicant's household and on the basis of the information collected by the DSU model (Single Replacement Declaration) and the other information available in the archives of the INPS and the Revenue Agency. I remember that the controversy about the new rules for the calculation of the ISEE introduced by the Government began to manifest immediately after their approval, generating many difficulties among the weakest subjects of our society, such as the elderly, the sick and the disabled in conditions of gravity, precisely those subjects that a modern state should protect particularly. My questioning 2-00319 therefore goes back a long time, but on the changes in the calculation of the ISEE still hang many appeals and new ones are being added by private citizens and associations that protect them. The new rules in force to regulate the instrument that measures the wealth of households in order to draw up the lists of lights for social services have sent in virtually tilt many of those entitled. This is a fact that the Government should have well in mind, being obtainable from the news. The reform of the ISEE calculation system, already presented by the Letta Government, has resulted in significant innovations and cross-checks. In the new ISEE are counted all the income of the family, even those exempt from tax in our country. It takes into account, therefore, also salaries and pensions collected abroad, the paychecks of those who work in Italy for another country; but for the same principle, other tax-free amounts such as accompanying allowances, invalidity pensions and all those benefits that the disabled person receives due to his disability also enter into the calculation. Matteo Renzi had expressly and publicly defended Letta's work on the new ISEE during a question time session in the Chamber of Deputies. We hope that the government's position, at least on these issues, has changed. As I said, my questioning, presented to the President of the Council of Ministers and the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy, dates back to 4 November 2015. In it I refer that the section before the TAR of Lazio, with the judgments no. 2454/2015, 2458/2015 and 2459/2015 of 11 February 2015, has declared illegitimate the decree of the President of the Council of Ministers n. 159 of 5 December 2013, laying down the regulation concerning the revision of the modalities of determination and the fields of application of the Indicator of the equivalent economic situation (ISEE) in the part in which it previews a notion of taxable income excessively extended, motivating that the welfare contributions are not income. By its judgments, the Administrative Court intervened on certain points of considerable importance for people with disabilities, essentially establishing: 1) that welfare treatment (pensions, allowances, various contributions) of any kind should not be considered in the calculation of the income situation; 2) that there may be no increased allowances for underage disabled only. Moreover, the TAR has declared unlawful and therefore canceled Article 4 (2) (f) of the decree of the President of the Council of Ministers n. 159 of 2013 that, with regard to the income situation, states that the income of each component the household is obtained by adding also welfare, social security and indemnities treatments, including debit cards, in any way received by public administrations, where they are not already included in the total income referred to in point (a); i.e. in the total income IRPEF (income tax of natural persons). The administrative courts, partially accepting three actions brought by the family members of persons with disabilities and by the professional associations of disabled persons against the new ISEE, write that the exemptions provided, in order to take account of invalidity benefits, are not suitable and cancel the part of the decree which considered as part of the disposable income all the proceeds that the system places in compensation of the objective situation of disadvantage. Disability pensions and accompanying allowances for disabled people are not a source of wealth. They cannot therefore be regarded as income. The operative part of the judgments 2454 and 2458 end: The Regional Administrative Court for Lazio (section one), finally ruling on the appeal, as in the proposed epigraph, accepts it in part in the senses of which in motivation and, for the effect, annuls Article 4, paragraph 2, letter f), of the decree of the President of the Council of Ministers n. 159 of 2013 challenged. Except for further determinations of the administration. Order that this judgment be enforced by the administrative authority. So decided in Rome in the council room of November 19, 2014... In view of this, the INPS, in application of that judgment, is ordered to carry out the calculation of the value of the new ISEE, without taking into account invalidity pensions and accompanying allowances and other provisions assigned to disabled people, because they cannot and must not be regarded as sources of income. Against the rulings of the TAR, the Government had appealed to the Council of State, also asking for the suspension of their effects, pending the judgment on the substance. This request was denied by the judges of the highest administrative justice body, who had set the first hearing for 3 December 2015 (World Day of the Rights of Persons with Disabilities). Randomly, December 3rd is also the day that the Government, in 2013, chose to present the new ISEE that has hindered access to the services of people with disabilities. He was asked to know, with our interrogation, what initiatives the Government intended to take to put an end to the situation and to adopt the appropriate and improcrastinable measures, so that the calculation of the ISEE is done by protecting the weakest subjects of our society, such as the elderly, the sick and the disabled in a serious condition, in accordance with the aforementioned rulings of the TAR. To date, compared to 2015, the situation has not been completely resolved and the associations have many concerns. I remind those who listen to us, especially those who listen to us from outside, that a total invalid is a disabled person who is no longer able to carry out any work. And I'm saying this to give us an idea of what we're talking about. Therefore, he receives a monthly allowance that should be his sustenance. Conditional is an obligation because, as we all know, the figure paid by the agencies responsible for 100% invalidity, for example, does not exceed EUR 280 per month. If the person needs assistance, this figure will be supplemented by an accompanying allowance, which amounts to approximately EUR 510. Therefore, with less than EUR 800, a non-self-sufficient patient should live for a month. And this happens not in a third world country, but in Italy. I also remind all of us that we have obligations, obligations under our Constitution, which in Article 3 states that: "All citizens have equal social dignity and are equal before the law, without distinction of sex, race, language, religion, political opinions, personal and social conditions. It is the task of the Republic to remove the obstacles of an economic and social order, which, in fact limiting the freedom and equality of citizens, prevent the full development of the human person and the effective participation of all workers in the political, economic and social organization of the Country. And I remember again, first of all to myself, and to all of us legislators and to the Government, article 32 which, in paragraph 1, reads: The Republic protects health as the fundamental right of the individual and the interest of the community, and guarantees free care to the most deprived. This is to say that the last people, those who have the most difficulties, those who - as I explained earlier - have to live with nothing or little more, must have no obstacles. The metro used by the previous government and by the current government has not completely resolved and creates doubts for us. We have a duty to protect disadvantaged, poor and disabled people, especially at a time like this in our country, when poverty is increasing exponentially, it has seen a boom, and it has children, disabled people and elderly people. We are counting 11.9% of families in serious economic difficulties. And the disabled, unfortunately, are in many of them, they are most. This is the meaning of our interrogation and I thank the Undersecretary Franca Biondelli for his interest, sure that we are, we must and we want to be a civil country. PRESIDENT. - The debate is The representative of the Government has the right to respond to this question.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-04-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-814.ana.u15	Madam President, I would like to respond to Senator Paglini's parliamentary act, which I thank for her sensitivity, precisely as regards the criteria for the revision of the ISEE. First of all, I would like to stress that the Government has dedicated and still devotes particular attention to the issue, in the awareness of the difficulties that disabled people and their families face every day, especially the most needy. As is well known, the reform of the ISEE was again amended in 2016 as a result of the judgments of the Council of State, which have definitively clarified that the concept of available income could not include treatments received due to the condition of disability. With the conversion of Decree-Law No 42 of 2016 the ISEE of people with disabilities has been modified, recovering some characteristics of the previous discipline. In particular, Article 2-e has been inserted in Conversion Act No 89 of 2016, which introduces transitionally a new method for calculating the indicator of the equivalent economic situation (ISEE), relating to households with components with disabilities, including for the recognition of facilitated school benefits. For these entities, the calculation is made by excluding from disposable income for the purposes of ISEE all treatments of the public administration already exempt from taxation for the purposes of IRPEF, received by reason of the condition of disability and providing for a single parameter of increase of the equivalence scale with reference to expenses and allowances for disabled or non-self-sufficient persons, regardless of their age. For those who receive the above-mentioned treatments for reasons other than the condition of disability, it is also established, also with reference to benefits for the right to university study, a specific method of calculation for the purposes of ISEE by the issuing entities, for the determination of the subjective economic requirements that give entitlement to the maintenance of the benefits. Following the regulatory intervention, I would point out that INPS, with Circular No 137 of 25 July 2016, has transposed the indications of Article 2-e of Decree-Law No 42 of 2016, converted into Law No 89 of 2016, modifying the calculation of the ISEE of households with components with disabilities. In particular, welfare, social security and compensation treatment received by public administrations as a result of the disability condition has been excluded from the ISEE income; the costs referred to in Article 4 (4) of the Decree of the President of the Council of Ministers No 159 of 2013 and the allowances for disabled components have been replaced with an increase of the equivalence scale of 0,5 for each component with medium, severe or non-self-sufficient disability. I would also point out that, following the legislative news, in order to provide interpretative explanations on the subject, the answers to the most frequent questions posed by bodies, citizens and CAF have been published on the website of the Ministry of Labour, in collaboration with the INPS and consults the CAFs. These responses are, inter alia, constantly updated on the basis of the new FAQs which, from time to time, reach the relevant Directorate-General. Finally, I would like to point out that by directorial decree of 1 June 2016, the instructions for the completion of the single replacement declaration were also provided. This act was followed by the enactment of Interministerial Decree No 138 of 13 April 2017, which, in dictating the new instructions for the compilation of the single replacement declaration, left unchanged the discipline of the aforementioned legislative news, with reference to persons with disabilities. The same interministerial decree, moreover, has previewed a greater flexibility in the mechanism of operation of the ISEE current, anchoring it to the 1 January of the year of presentation of the single substitution declaration, term from which to calculate in retrospect the variation of the working situation, happened in the eighteen previous months, regarding one or more members of the family.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-04-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-814.ana.u16	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-04-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-814.ana.u17	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-04-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-814.ana.u18	Mr Paglini (M5S). Madam President, I would like to thank Mr Franca Biondelli for his reply, which unfortunately comes after an appeal that the citizens have made to the TAR. The government had acted badly. As an opposition we immediately pointed out the various criticalities about how the instrument was used. So this is, in some way, an attempt to remedy a damage. If I have to say it all, even the fact that the Government has brought an appeal to the Council of State puts me in a state of concern, because precisely the most disadvantaged categories should be the ones we most cared for, the most protected. We are here to be able to bring a benefit to those who need it at the moment, to people with disabilities but also to those who are poor, whose number - as I said before - in the last ten years has increased more and more: 11.9% of Italian families, or 7,209 million people, were found in 2016 under conditions of serious material deprivation. With the new ISEE it is as if we were trying to narrow the mesh so that less and less facilities could be granted, whereas it should have been the opposite. These, by the way, are certain data, revealed by ISTAT. Above all, we should look at the protection of disabled children who, in 2016, are in very serious deprivation: there are 1,250 million (equal to 12.3% of the population under eighteen) children living in a state of continuous difficulty. These are people who have difficulty putting together lunch with dinner. On the part of the Government very little has been done, from our point of view, starting with what we were asking for in the immediate future, namely to ensure that people with difficulties could be protected in a dignified way, as our Constitution asks us. Unfortunately, we have seen that the political choices have gone in another direction: we have seen 20 billion as if they were peanuts for the reforms of politics, for the bonuses - for example - Renzi's electoral (the famous 80 euros) that have brought nothing but a return on election; or the billions placed in the jobs act for the decontributions, which have not led to real changes or successes in terms of raising employment statistics; statistics in which also the people paid with a voucher for an hour of work per week, which are counted as workers. There has been a huge dispersal of energies that should have been channeled to help the social belt of the disabled and the poor. We are not satisfied with the fact that we are now rushing to try to secure all this shelter, because in the end we have to assess the work of a government and a majority and the choices made. Today we find ourselves marrying the words of the president of one of the many associations of disabled people, Salvatore Pagliuca, president of the Italian National Union sick transport to Lourdes and international sanctuaries (UNITALSI), which expresses the deep concern for the data on absolute poverty in Italy that have been diffused, from which it turns out that the people affected are often the weakest people, those sick or with disabilities, who often have to give up even the medical care due to the lack of economic availability. Mr Undersecretary, thank you for your reply, but I am deeply disappointed by what is happening and I am deeply disappointed by the political choices and everything that could be done and that unfortunately has not been done in time.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-04-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-814.ana.u19	The questioning and questions on the agenda are thus exhausted.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-04-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-814.ana.u20	The motions, questions and questions received by the Presidency will be published in Annex B to today's report.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-04-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-814.ana.u21	The Senate will meet again in public session on Tuesday, 2 May, at 4.30 p.m., with the following agenda: (See agenda) The sitting was closed at 16.35 a.m.
