ParlaMint-IT_2017-07-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-864.ana.u1	The sitting was opened at 11 a.m. The Minutes shall be read. Mr Volpoli, Secretary, gave a reading of the Minutes of the sitting on 20 July.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-07-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-864.ana.u2	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-07-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-864.ana.u3	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-07-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-864.ana.u4	TOSATO (LN-Aut). Madam President, I would like to ask for the vote on the Minutes, subject to a quorum check.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-07-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-864.ana.u5	I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators, by electronic procedure. (The request is supported). I therefore call on the senators to make their presence known by electronic means. (Follows the quorum check.) The Senate is not a quorum. I therefore suspend the sitting. (The sitting was suspended at 11.04 a.m. and resumed at 11.24 a.m.)
ParlaMint-IT_2017-07-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-864.ana.u6	We shall now proceed to the vote on the Minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-07-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-864.ana.u7	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-07-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-864.ana.u8	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-07-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-864.ana.u9	SANTANGELO (M5S). Madam President, let us renew the request for a quorum check.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-07-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-864.ana.u10	I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators, by electronic procedure. (The request is supported). I therefore call on the senators to make their presence known by electronic means. (Follows the quorum check.) The Senate is not a quorum. I therefore suspend the sitting. (The sitting was suspended at 11.25 a.m. and resumed at 11.45 a.m.)
ParlaMint-IT_2017-07-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-864.ana.u11	We shall now proceed to the vote on the Minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-07-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-864.ana.u12	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-07-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-864.ana.u13	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-07-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-864.ana.u14	CANDIANI (LN-Aut). Madam President, we will not be asking for the quorum to be checked, because I think it is extremely shameful that this House... Then there's no reason to intervene. CANDIANI (LN-Aut). Madam President, allow me to say that four times in the afternoon sitting on 4 April the quorum was not present. Now it has been missed twice and it would be unbecoming for the world of agriculture not to receive an answer from the Senate Assembly. The majority has a responsibility: guarantee the quorum seriously now and in the other sessions.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-07-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-864.ana.u15	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-07-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-864.ana.u16	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-07-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-864.ana.u17	SANTANGELO (M5S). Madam President, let us renew the request for a quorum check. Verification of quorum
ParlaMint-IT_2017-07-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-864.ana.u18	I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators, by electronic procedure. (The request is supported). I therefore call on the senators to make their presence known by electronic means. (Follows the quorum check.) The Senate has a quorum. Resumption of the debate on the Minutes I put the Minutes to the vote. It's approved.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-07-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-864.ana.u19	The list of senators on leave and absent on assignment received from the Senate, as well as further communications to the Assembly, will be published in Annex B to today's Minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-07-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-864.ana.u20	I would warn you that qualified votes can be taken in the course of today's sitting by electronic means. Therefore, from this moment the period of 20 minutes from the notice provided for in Article 119, paragraph 1, of the Regulation begins (11:47 hours).
ParlaMint-IT_2017-07-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-864.ana.u21	Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to say that the President of the Council of Ministers sent the following letter: "Rome, 20 July 2017 Mr. President, I inform S.V. that the President of the Republic, by his own decree of today, adopted on my proposal, has accepted the resignations resigned by Mr. Dr. Enrico COSTA from the post of Minister without portfolio. F.to Paolo Gentiloni.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-07-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-864.ana.u22	The next item is the debate on motions 1-00746 (text 2), tabled by Senator Candiani and other senators, 1-00764, tabled by Senator Bertuzzi and other senators, 1-00821, tabled by Senator Donno and other senators, 1-00583, presented by Senator Fabbri and other senators, 1-00747, presented by Senator D'Ambrosio Lettieri and other senators, 1-00762, presented by Senator Gatti and other senators, 1-00766 (text 2), presented by Senator Fattori and other senators, and 1-00768, presented by Senator Bertuzzi and other senators, on agriculture. I call Senator Candiani to explain motion No 746 (text 2).
ParlaMint-IT_2017-07-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-864.ana.u23	Madam President, the first motion we tabled at this session of proceedings of the Senate concerns the protection of rice produced in Italy. The rice sector is particularly sensitive to market difficulties due to duty-free imports into our country and Europe of rice produced in the least developed countries which obviously have an export advantage. I remember a few numbers: in the 2015-2016 marketing year, 1,335,702 tonnes of milled rice were imported into Europe (with a 65% increase compared to the 2008-2009 marketing year and 14% compared to the 2014-2015 marketing year), of which 369,678 tonnes were imported from the least developed countries (LDCs), of which 20% came only from Cambodia, the EU's first rice supplier. European rice production amounts to 1.8 million tonnes per year for an annual turnover of around €3 billion. Italy, the first producer of rice in Europe, has a territory of 234,300 hectares, with 140 varieties of rice and about 1,500,000 tons of product. Between all European and Italian production, Lombardy and Piedmont together represent 93% of the area cultivated with rice in Italy. In the supply chain there are 4,265 rice farms. There are around 100 industries, of which 6 have a total of more than 50% of the market. It is clear that imports from the least developed countries account for 27% of total EU imports. In 2026 these imports will, if we do not stop, cover 50% of the total European Union import. With these rhythms a simple effect is produced: the Italian producers close. Among the rules of the European Union there is one that allows to affix safeguard clauses or control, the so-called duties, when competition with the least advanced countries, which are the subject of development campaigns by the European Union, produces deformations within the market to produce - as I have already anticipated - the closure, the loss of quotas and production within the European market. On 20 February 2017, in Milan, 50 of the largest European rice producers met to share a common platform to be submitted to the Agriculture Ministers of their respective countries, with the aim of opening a table with the European Commission in order to reach the imposition of the so-called duties. The import of processed rice from the least developed countries has very serious negative effects on our production, which are reflected in the marked reduction of the areas cultivated with rice. Madam President, in a nutshell, with motion No 746 we call on the Government, also in the light of the latest developments, to make serious efforts in the European fora responsible for the activation of the safeguard clause provided for in Article 22 of Regulation No 978 of 2012 of the European Union, for the restoration of customs duties towards the least developed countries, recognizing the seriousness of the situation in which the Italian rice sector faces the import from the least developed countries. We also call for a commitment to be made at European level, with a view to establishing mutual rules between the Member States of the European Union and the least developed countries in the field of plant health and trade, in order to promote a transparent market; and to take appropriate steps to make the rules on the labelling of agricultural products of origin applicable to rice, in order to protect the health of consumers and to preserve and enhance the value of rice made in Italy. It is clear that these proposals simply tend to give the consumer the certainty that they have on their plate a rice produced by the Italian quality chain and to the latter the certainty that they can be on the market without suffering the disadvantageous competition of countries that, in this case, make dumping against our rice producers. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-07-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-864.ana.u24	I call Senator Ferrara Elena to explain motion No 764.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-07-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-864.ana.u25	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, the rice sector continues to be the subject of Parliament's attention. It dates back to July 2014, in fact, an important work of the 9th Senate Commission that led to the approval of a resolution at the end of the examination of the deal assigned on the situation of the Italian rice sector. In recent years, several questions have been asked about the rice crisis. The legislator has taken a proactive attitude by preparing a delegation to reform the national legislation of the sector (respecting 1958), which has been included in the so-called agricultural link, on the basis of which, precisely in these days, the Government has issued its legislative decree, taking into account the content and also the valuable positive judgment of a large part of the audit chain and obtaining the favourable opinion of the competent Commissions. Our country - as has been said - is the main European producer of rice, with an annual turnover of one billion euros, 4,265 rice companies, 100 rice industries with high specialisation. The peculiarities of the European rice sector allow it to differ from those of the rest of the world. The high specialisation of some companies in the sector gives the European rice sector an important role in water management, ensuring its long-term availability. The operators of the sector, moreover, are very attentive to the protection of the environment and, through their work, contribute to the reduction of the pollution of the underground waters, to the preservation of different species of animals, until the prevention of alluvial phenomena and contrasting the salinization of the lands near the mouths of the rivers (themes of great importance also in the last days). The Italian rice sector - as briefly described in the text of motion 764 - is going through a structural crisis. It is a system crisis due, on the one hand, to the increase in imports from developing countries (and not only) and, on the other hand, to production and market difficulties. With regard to imports, we have long asked the Government to activate the safeguard clause provided for by Community legislation. The Government's commitment was consequent and led to the preparation of a dossier at the Commission of the European Union describing the issues of the sector. It followed, then, last February, an important meeting among all the rice producing countries, thanks to an initiative taken by our country, which had the aim of grouping together and strengthening the role and position of the producers concerned, with the involvement of the political authorities and representatives of operators throughout the Union chain, and gave rise to the establishment of the European rice platform, where it was shared the need to make as transparent as possible the entire production process that concerns Italian rice, experimenting with the indication of the origin on the label. On this point, the government's intervention, aimed at anticipating the European Commission's decisions - it still takes time to implement the legislation on transparent labels - with the decree on the labelling of rice last week (with respect to the content of the motion) takes into account the full sharing of guidelines that, over time, have matured within the majority. And for this I would like to thank the Deputy Minister, who is present here, and the Government. Italy has decided to intervene to ensure maximum transparency in the label on the origin of rice. Since last week, in fact, the indication of the country of origin on the label becomes mandatory also for pasta and rice, after similar rules on milk and cheese. It will be an experiment that will last two years, during which time our country will still be called to commit so that this time European legislation equals the Italian one. We must be proud of the courage that the majority of this Parliament has had in tackling with force and determination the problem that has hit the rice sector in recent years, in particular during the phase of approval of the related agriculture, with which the government was asked to take action in this regard. Today Italy is an example to be followed for Europe as a whole, in the belief that the challenge to ensure transparency for citizens-consumers is one of the keys to Italian agricultural and agri-food development. We therefore call for a final effort from the Government: to continue, in the relevant European offices, the action taken to protect Italian rice companies and the national market in a more general sense. This debate today only firmly strengthens Italy's position on the reform of the sector: finally, fully and definitively apply Regulation No 1169 of 2011 on indications of the origin of raw materials on the label. There is also a need to activate the safeguard clause provided for in European Union Regulation No 978 of 2012, supporting a greater commitment to promoting the rice sector. [[Applause from Senator Bertuzzi]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-07-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-864.ana.u26	I call Senator Donno to explain motion No 821.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-07-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-864.ana.u27	Madam President, rice is a chain made up of more than 4,200 farms, mainly in the northern part of Italy, with a high concentration in Piedmont and Lombardy. It is a sector that also counts numerous processing industries and that in total boasts a turnover of about one billion euros. In all this it must be emphasized that on a European scale Italy has a very important record: our country is the first producer of rice, with a territory invested in this cultivation of 237,000 hectares. The boot, among other things, represents a real example worldwide, because it has created and improved the original variety, so as to adapt it to the territory and local traditions. Despite this, however, the national rice sector is experiencing a very serious crisis, which has worsened in recent years due to the abnormal increase in imports of low-priced rice from Asian countries, assisted by the generalized system of preferences. This system, created to help the growth of the developing countries, has in fact caused the reduction in the market prices of rice produced in Italy and within the European Union below the same production costs, causing considerable damage to the Italian companies; a crisis certified by the European Commission, which has anticipated for the current campaign final stocks (i.e. of product not placed on the market) of 585,000 tonnes, i.e. about one third of the entire Community production. Italian rice farming is therefore in danger of being severely reduced, seriously endangering a vast territory and the entire chain, with serious repercussions not only economic and employment, but also environmental and health care. In particular, the environmental repercussions are linked to the impairment of the ecosystem and the hydrogeological balance, precisely because of the abandonment of the cultivated land. The health consequences, on the other hand, are linked to the fact that in so many Asian products the presence of unauthorized pesticides has been repeatedly detected, and this exposes consumers to inevitable risks that irreversibly affect food safety. Now, from a strictly national point of view, it must be specified that the varieties of Italian rice have specific properties, linked to the places and techniques with which the cultivation takes place. In this sense, preserving and defending its existence is important in order to preserve a long agricultural tradition, to enhance the characteristics linked to the transformation of the processing in the kitchen of the product and to preserve its gastronomic typicality. It is a peculiarity that is important to remember and is one of the symptoms of Italian excellence in the world. It is clear that the value of the Italian rice sector lies precisely in the territorial strategicity and the protection of the precious biodiversity of the product. This helps to maintain high the image of Made in Italy food, ensuring the socio-economic stability of a territorial complex of absolute importance. The reorganization of the rice market must, therefore, go in the dual direction of enhancing - on the one hand - the variety and productions, including new ones and - on the other hand - providing the consumer with concrete, clear and unmistakable information on the requirements, characteristics and quality of the food that he is buying and who chooses to eat. Rice, even before it is a real agricultural wealth, represents a cultural heritage, a fundamental part of our traditions and our identity. We will never tire of remembering this and we will of course continue to fight constantly against any kind of sale of our priceless agri-food resources. [[Applause from the M5S Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-07-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-864.ana.u28	I call Senator Fabbri to explain motion No 583.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-07-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-864.ana.u29	Madam President, this motion for my first signature was tabled on 7 June 2016 and some of the commitments contained in it have been exceeded with the approval by Parliament of the Law on the Head of State and the exploitation of labour (Law No 199 of 2016). The subject of the caporalate still remains, despite the law that we have approved, very attentive; it is no coincidence that this morning we read of arrests and complaints for caporalate, of controls in eight regions in the so-called Freedom operation. Some of the commitments we have included in the motion are in part being implemented and others are quite current, because they are not included in the legislation. It should be recalled that this motion was tabled after the death of Mrs Paola Clemente, which took place in Puglia in July 2015, following an intense activity of the Parliamentary Committee of Inquiry into Accidents at Work - the Commission that I chair - of the open investigation on the death of Mrs Paola Clemente, as well as a survey-inspection carried out in the area of Agro Pontino on 24 May. Among the commitments included - this is a necessary information - were those aimed at strengthening inter-force controls, at guaranteeing forms of garrison of the territory with particular reference to the areas in which foreign workers operate. As I said before, this morning's checks and arrests also go in that direction. The second commitment is to ensure effective coordination between the National Labour Inspectorate and the OSH for the supervision of agricultural work safety. As far as the legislation is concerned, we can say that there is still no full operation of the National Labour Inspectorate in coordination with the ASLs. We have also included in the motion a commitment to monitor the commercial mechanisms governing the determination of the contractual conditions for the prices of agricultural products between the national and multinational groups of the organized large-scale distribution, between the large fruit and vegetable markets and farms: this is a subject that has been repeatedly stressed. We also envisaged a commitment to exercise all supervisory powers over the administration agencies. The investigation carried out by the Commission of Inquiry revealed the role of the administration agencies, which, from our point of view, should not be criminalised, but should certainly be monitored more closely. Absolutely current is the last commitment contained in the motion, which calls for a revision of the interministerial decree of 27 March 2013, in order to ensure full health surveillance as well as effective training and information for agricultural workers who work for less than fifty days. In essence, it is a revision of the Fornero Decree establishing, in the field of the safety of agricultural workers, that health surveillance is replaced by preventive medical certification valid for two years and that training in agricultural matters is replaced by mere delivery of documents. I conclude by saying that, in this particular case, which is also what the Committee of Inquiry has done, Mrs Paola Clemente, who died in July 2015, had with her a two-year prior certificate attesting to her good health. So, beyond Mrs. Clemente's specific case, it is clear that this type of certification certainly does not help the many agricultural workers engaged in our fields, especially during the summer season that, objectively, in terms of health, is very complicated.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-07-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-864.ana.u30	I call Senator D'Ambrosio Lettieri to explain motion No 747.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-07-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-864.ana.u31	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, as has been pointed out in the previous speeches, last November, Law No 199 was published, which deals with rules to combat the phenomena of undeclared work in agriculture, so-called the law on the caporalate. There is no doubt about the need for this law to define in a clearer and more stringent way the perimeter within which we must move within the agricultural entrepreneurship organisations, with levels of clarity that can even more and in a better way represent an effective condition for combating illegal activities and the exploitation of labour. I would remind you that the parliamentary process of this law took place in an atmosphere of great participation, but also of great emotion, determined precisely by the death in the Andria countryside, in the previous month of July, of the agricultural worker Paola Clemente, on which the Committee of Inquiry into the phenomenon of accidents at work and occupational diseases opened an investigation. Basically the law intervenes on two aspects: it intervenes on the prevention and the contrast to the black work and the exploitation of the work in agriculture and on the action of repression that is achieved through the rewriting of article 603- bis of the penal code, with the prediction of the confiscation of the property and the arrest in flagrante of crime. Indeed, it is stated in the law that the most severe conditions which have been introduced are only in the presence of two conditions, namely the exploitation of the worker and the abuse of the worker's state of need. The criminal penalty would therefore appear to be not applicable in cases where there are accidental infringements, i.e. infringements related to minor non-compliances. However, it seems that this is not the case and there is a particular state - and I also think it is motivated - of concern on the part of the whole agricultural world. Let me remind you that it operates in our country about one million agricultural enterprises: in my Puglia there are 80,000; in the Mezzogiorno of Italy there are 330,000. Agriculture in our country weighs 2.2% of GDP; 12 million hectares are used in agriculture and the number of people employed reaches over 817,000, representing the third highest value in the European Union after Poland and Romania. I say this in order to point out how and how much the agricultural sector represents a motor of development of the employment and support to the GDP, which - obviously - requires to make clear on some points, that they can represent cause of uncertainty in the field of the agricultural entrepreneurship, regarding the effects of relapse of the application of the law 29 October 2016, n. 199, also with specific reference to the profiles, particularly heavy, of sanctioning nature. On the basis of these considerations, the Assembly of the Senate has repeatedly intervened on the issues inherent in the agricultural sector. We talked about the need for streamlining processes and, therefore, less bureaucracy, simplification of procedures, the need for traceability of production, more efficient activities to combat the largest business concerning the phenomenon of so-called agromafias, the enhancement of our products and made in Italy, as well as the harmonisation of national and supranational legislation. We have been very committed to these aspects. Let us now ensure that our products should not be penalised by the application of a rule that deserves to be reconsidered in the context of the review of Law No 199 in the Assembly and that we proceed to the drafting of implementing guidelines, as well as to the study of any useful element to make clarity and to remove from a condition of great uncertainty the whole agricultural sector, which is in a state of great concern. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I call Senator Gatti to explain motion No 762.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-07-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-864.ana.u32	Madam President, in order to explain my motion, I would like to start with the issue of Law No 199 of 29 October 2016, of which I was rapporteur. Law No. 199 was passed in the Senate, without any votes against, on 1 August 2016; in the Chamber of Deputies, in the same text and without any votes against, on 18 October 2016 and, finally, published in the Official Journal on 3 November 2016. It has therefore been nine months since the entry into force of this law which, for some parts, needs guidelines and regulations, while for others - I am referring to criminal rules - it is immediately enforceable. It is also worth remembering at this stage that the repressive part, where the crime referred to in Article 603- bis of the Criminal Code has been rewritten, applies not only to the agricultural sector, but also to all sectors. In the rewriting of the article, in addition to the mitigating circumstance, the confiscation, the arrest in flagrante, the responsibility of the institutions, the use of the resources of the Anti-Tract Fund also for the offences referred to in the same article, has been inserted in our law, for the first time, the crime of occupational exploitation, recognizing a specific responsibility also to the enterprises and not only to those who exercise the illegal mediation of labor. I am talking about the exploitation of the worker, that is, the taking advantage of the state of need as the way in which the exploitation itself is carried out. The vulnerability of the victim in need is therefore essential for the configuration of the crime. Many problems have been raised in relation to the issue of exploitation indices, confusing them as constituent elements of the crime. This is not the case, as the indexes were also present in the old writing of article 603-a. The use of individual infringements does not supplement the offence of exploitation. Firstly, the indices are based on a recurrence of conduct and infringements. Secondly, they constitute a mere indicator of the existence of exploitation, which implies, on the other hand, a temporally appreciable and not occasional violation of the goods concerned and protected. In this sense, the judge, in establishing the truth, must take this into account, assessing the suitability of this violation to supplement the conduct - the exploitation of the worker, in fact, taking advantage of his state of need - which necessarily develops over time and integrates a situation of a lasting and non-quota fact. It is quite wrong to see in the indices of exploitation an extension of the offence of exploitation to certain areas of competence of collective bargaining, such as pay and working time (I am quoting from a number of interventions). This has nothing to do with collective bargaining. The seriousness of the violations is such that only those behaviors capable of inhibiting or restricting the freedom of self-determination of the victim by taking advantage, precisely, of the state of need in which he resides; a state which, by definition, excludes the same possibility of collective and individual bargaining. The crime, as reworded in the new article 603-a, takes into consideration the conduct in such "matters" only when the criminal conduct is suitable to conculcate and prejudice for a significant duration the fundamental rights in the matter of equal pay - I am talking about Article 36, paragraph 1, of the Constitution - limits to working time, the right to rest and holidays (Article 36, paragraphs 2 and 3 of the Constitution), the right to safety at work and to protection in the event of an accident or illness (Article 38 of the Constitution), not by chance guaranteed by the Italian Constitution. As far as the criminal part is concerned, it will certainly be necessary to monitor the evolution of the law in order to verify any problems and necessity of adjustment. On the other hand, in the part of preventing and combating the exploitation of work in agriculture, we note a slowdown in the operation of the direction cabin, except for the evaluation of applications for inclusion in the quality agricultural work network, while the guidelines and interventions necessary for the activation of the territorial network with the establishment of sections are lacking. Moreover, in some parts of the country we still record the presence of dramatic situations concerning the living and working conditions of people employed both in the seasonal collection of agricultural products and in particularly expensive jobs, for example in greenhouses, warehouses or in the slaughter of meat. I remember only the last serious episodes of Rosarno and San Ferdinando, where there were deaths, and the cases, however serious, recorded in Tuscany, Chianti, Emilia Romagna and in the Province of Forlì-Cesena. It is in this context that we ask the Government if it does not consider to take stock of the situation and to commit itself to building the necessary tools so that the preventive part of the law, in which the policies of intervention for the prevention and the contrast to the undeclared work and the exploitation in agriculture able to face the emergencies and direct the choices of future intervention, are implemented completely. In addition, it is necessary to assume an intervention plan that includes measures for the reception, the logistic accommodation and the support to the workers, also through the involvement of all the local authorities and the associations. The point is that with the territorial sections, which must be organized, of the network for quality agricultural work, we must try methods of agricultural placement modulated at the territorial level and of legal transport of workers. It is in this way that Italian agriculture is defended. [[Applause from the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and ……]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-07-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-864.ana.u33	I call Senator Donno to explain motion No 766 (text 2).
ParlaMint-IT_2017-07-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-864.ana.u34	Madam President, on 18 October 2016, the House of Deputies finally approved the draft law n. 4008, which contains provisions on the fight against the phenomena of undeclared work, the exploitation of work in agriculture and the realignment of wages in the agricultural sector, which became Law n. 199 of 29 October 2016. With the adoption of this measure, Parliament sought to ensure greater effectiveness in the fight against the so-called caporalate, by introducing significant changes to the criminal law framework and by providing specific support measures for seasonal workers in agriculture. The main novelties of the law concern the rewriting of the crime of caporalate (illegal mediation and exploitation of work), which introduces the sanctionability also of the employer; the application of an attenuating in case of collaboration with the authorities; the compulsory arrest in flagrante of crime; the strengthening of the institution of confiscation; the adoption of protective measures relating to the farm in which the crime is committed; the extension to legal persons of responsibility for the crime of caporalate; the extension to the victims of the head of the provisions of the anti-treaty fund; the strengthening of the network of quality agricultural work, in function of instrument of control and prevention of black work in agriculture; the gradual realignment of wages in the agricultural sector. It reads apart, it is clear that the caporalate is a structural phenomenon of the production chain in front of which politics can no longer close its eyes and that it must be fought with all the possible tools to get out, once and for all, of the '" ghetto economy. " In fact, Law No. 199 of 2016 is beginning to have its effects on the prosecution of certain entrepreneurs and corporals, but the commitment against the head of state and the black work in agriculture must continue both in Parliament and in the territory and this law must be considered only the first step, however important, of a long journey. Above all, the gap still existing with respect to healthy recruitment of workers remains to be bridged by an effective system of intermediary between the supply and demand of agricultural work, on which the phenomenon of the caporalate is born and developed. To date, in fact, some specific measures provided for in this law have still not been implemented, such as the strengthening of the quality agricultural work network and the directing booth for the experimentation of instruments for the lawful mediation in agriculture. And there are many, many aspects that, in our opinion, require further study: from the problem of transport to reach the workplace, largely managed by the corporals, to the issue of housing, which today leads to the ghettoization of workers. These are all issues that need to be resolved, because it is a system that is no longer tolerable, in all respects. To be found unprepared again in front of a summer collection already begun would be to strike yet another blow to the dignity of seasonal workers and we absolutely cannot allow it. [[Applause from the M5S Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-07-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-864.ana.u35	I call Senator Lumia to explain motion No 768.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-07-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-864.ana.u36	Madam President, we have tabled a further motion No 768 precisely with regard to Law No 199 of 2016 which intervenes in a targeted way to combat the phenomenon of the caporalate. The world of agriculture is rich in quality, professionalism, intelligence, market capacity, fair competition and protection of rights. However, it would be very wrong, ladies and gentlemen, to pass on the idea, which would only harm this very world, of denying the existence of the caporalate, introducing a sort of negationism of this phenomenon. We believe that the phenomenon exists, but neither must we make the opposite mistake of criminalising the sector, or think that such a serious phenomenon is present only in the world of agriculture. The construction world and some service sectors are also experiencing the same dramatic experience as the Caporalate. The law n. 199 of 2016 intervenes widening the criminal case, but not generalizing. That is why, ladies and gentlemen, we do not think it is necessary to intervene in order to change the measure. The law, in fact, is only nine months old, is being implemented and is already bearing good fruit. There is a concern in the agricultural world that must be collected. A dialogue must be opened with this sector, and this morning's work must also be used to bridge and monitor the progressive implementation of the law. I agree with those who say that the measure does not punish employers, in such an indiscriminate manner, in the face of simple and futile differences, failures or irregularities. The new Article 603 bis of the penal code requires that there are two elements, both necessary, to configure the crime of caporalate: the exploitation of the worker and the taking advantage of the state of need. It has also been corrected by several colleagues - particularly Senator Gatti's intervention - the interpretation that indices are not a constituent element of the crime. This must be a recurrence of conduct and violations, and the indices are simply indicators that configure that behaviour and help the judge to assess well the existence of malice and a repeated attitude. That is why, ladies and gentlemen, when there are accidental violations or minor errors, it is not necessary to apply Article 603 bis of the penal code. In the commitments of the motion we have foreseen the need for continuous monitoring and a qualitative leap on the elements of prevention provided for in law n. 199 of 2016. The strengthening of the role of the network for quality agricultural work was a strong point of the law, which still requires implementation of the guidelines, regulations and even greater cultural conviction on the part of the institutions involved. We must also ensure that the steering booth becomes truly such: efficient, qualified, ready, attentive on the ground and without bureaucracy. In conclusion, it is necessary to strengthen three aspects already mentioned: the local sections, transport and housing. For these reasons, we believe that this law should be applied. It's early to change it. The phenomenon must be combated and Parliament's choral commitment together with the world of agriculture can bring good results. [[Applause from Senators Cats and War.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-07-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-864.ana.u37	I declare the debate open. He's enlisted to speak Senator Candiani. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-07-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-864.ana.u38	Madam President, five minutes is a short time to sum up a challenging and important issue such as the need to protect the rice supply chain. The contents of the various motions presented are more or less analogous and make the synthesis of the whole. I would like to point out that 30% of the final stocks of European production in the 2016-2017 marketing year are estimated at 586,000 tonnes. We are talking about stocks, that is, quantities that are not placed on the market because it is not able to absorb them. In contrast, 50% see the fall in prices of the Arborio Group. It is clear that, in the face of these numbers, one can only be dramatically alarmed. I'm gonna cut to the chase to be synthetic. The management of the Ministry of Agriculture, Food and Forestry, and of Minister Martina in particular, of relations with the European Union has disappointed us very much. In this sense, Italy must not only do homework at the last moment, but must assert its own reasons from the first moment. The difficulty our sector is experiencing in relation to the least developed countries exporting rice to Europe and the fact that the European Commission does not impose duties is highly and dramatically known. And it is so much so that the National Authority laughed, several times and last time a few months ago, wrote that for several years now the National Authority has been asking the European Commission to apply the safeguard clause, which in the current regulation has the aim of restoring normal import duties; and not because we must be bad towards the least advanced countries, but because it is clear that the disadvantage we are suffering is only Italian and not from other European countries. The European Union's cooperation and participation in the economic development of these countries corresponds to a price paid by Italian agriculture, not by other European countries. For these reasons, once again, on 4 April 2017, the Commission concluded that it was necessary to act quickly and decisively on the Commission in order to re-establish the duty. Madam President, I would like to highlight two issues. Minister Martina was totally absent until the day before yesterday when, when he became aware of the motion at our examination, he began to show himself present and to make it clear that something perhaps needs to be done. We have been very disappointed in this, because we have been following this issue in the past few months. And, when the sector was in turmoil at the beginning of the year, a European Council was held on 6 March with the question of rice on the agenda, which he himself asked to include (as Mr Martina said). Too bad that that day Minister Martina was not in Europe to negotiate and defend the rice sector, but - as we have unfortunately seen and learned from the documents - in Bergamo, to support his candidacy and his ticket with Renzi, as Deputy Secretary of the Democratic Party. Unfortunately, this is something that has already been repeated too many times: either he decides to be the Minister of Agriculture and Food and Forestry Policy or he decides to be the Deputy Secretary of the Democratic Party. Of course, we are verifying that the Minister for Agricultural Policy is not present in this House today, just as he was not the previous time and on other occasions when we talked about agriculture. Unfortunately, the same is true of the European tables. Just the other day - without great surprise, because these are things that we already knew - the newspaper "Libero", of which I brought here a copy, headlined on the front page: "The Minister of Agriculture does not care about Italian agriculture. Madam President, the days of the European Council meeting to talk about agriculture are recorded in the newspaper, and on those occasions Mr Martina was absent. These things hurt us and hurt Italian agriculture, because the Minister for Agriculture Policy must go to the meetings of the bodies of the European Union to defend their area of competence. And it must not do so out of opportunism, because there are Italian motions that have been postponed for months and now can no longer be postponed. The question of rice is not secondary, but, with regard to all Italian production, it is worth about 3 billion euros. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I invite you to conclude, Senator Candiani. CANDIANI (LN-Aut). In the face of all this, we hope that the motions under consideration will be approved and we call, above all, for the Government to play its part seriously, in order to defend the rice supply chain in Europe, like the rest of Italian agriculture. Otherwise you are sending to the macero not only an economy, but the entire history of a production of our territory. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-07-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-864.ana.u39	Senator Guerra is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-07-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-864.ana.u40	Madam President, first of all I would like to make a point concerning the motions before us, and in particular the motion by the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, on the first signature of Senator Gatti, which concerns a gender perspective, namely women. I believe that from this point of view there are two aspects that need to be highlighted. The first aspect, recalled by Senator Gatti and also by Senator Lumia, has to do with the new crime introduced by the legislation on the caporalate, against the illicit mediation and the exploitation of the work, which - as already mentioned - provides as a constitutive condition of the crime not only the exploitation of the worker, but also the fact that it is obtained through the taking advantage of the state of need of the worker himself: that is, it attaches importance to the situation of vulnerability of the person victim of exploitation. From the surveys carried out in the first place by the Federation of Agricultural Workers (FLAI) of the CGIL - a union that must be absolutely thanked for the constant work of garrison of the territory that it carries out in these areas in which the weakness of the workers is particularly strong - and from voluntary associations, which also deal with such issues - Caritas, Proxima and others - we learn that in various areas of Italy, in agriculture, women's work is subjected to a regime of exploitation and particularly fierce blackmail. This depends precisely on the greater weakness of women in the employment relationship and on their particular state of need. What we know is that the days for women worked, registered and therefore covered by contributions, are 20 to 30% lower than those already low, recognized to men and the salary they receive is lower than the one already low, perceived by men. I would also like to point out that very often women are subject to harassment and sexual blackmail, which go all the way to actual sexual abuse, so as not to lose their jobs. We know, from the anecdotic and information we have available, that such blackmail involves not the corporals, but also the employers. It is therefore right that these issues should be taken care of as far as possible. The weakness of women in the employment relationship is also linked to the overload of domestic work and care and to the inhuman conditions in which they are forced to work, without public support - for example for the care of children - and other factors related to the type of work they do. I am referring in particular to the fact that the workers, and therefore also the women, are often forced to move for tens of kilometers, staying out of the house for twelve or fifteen hours, and to the fact that, for transport, they depend entirely on the corporals. I would therefore like to stress the second point, which is a crucial element of the motion that we have tabled, namely the need to implement that part of the law on prevention, which also covers, of course, the crucial aspect of the efficient organisation of the matching of supply and demand, two other issues that must not be underestimated. One issue is what I was now referring to, namely the organisation of transport in legal form in the workplace, which would secure exploitation in this field of labour mediation and, specifically, also from giving the corporals a chance of blackmail and further exploitation in terms of sexual harassment against women. The second issue concerns the organization of reception, which should no longer lead to the construction of ghettos. There are dramatic living and working conditions for people employed in seasonal agricultural work and others, such as greenhouse work. And we also know that, unfortunately, in those ghettos very often there is a push to forced prostitution, especially of young immigrant women who are weak in two ways: because women and because immigrants. We have known dramatic data concerning Ragusa, but also other places, where there is an abortion rate of young Romanian women much higher than the national average. [[Applause from the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and ……]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-07-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-864.ana.u41	Senator Dalla Tor is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-07-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-864.ana.u42	Madam President, since I have prepared a long speech, I would just like to give an illustrative summary of the two motions that have been tabled. If you will allow me, I would ask you to deliver the written text of my speech.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-07-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-864.ana.u43	The Presidency shall authorise it accordingly.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-07-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-864.ana.u44	WRITER IN TOR (AP-CpE-NCD). With regard to the motion on rice, among the excellences to be protected there is undoubtedly the cultivation of rice which, in our country, is indissolubly associated with the richest and most historical regional traditions, in particular culinary. Undoubtedly, the characteristics of rice produced in Italy respond to qualitative parameters that cannot be traced elsewhere in the world. The cultivation of rice is part of the history and the Italian landscape and its sector has shaped entire areas of our peninsula, guaranteeing also a good reservoir of occupied. The valorization of Italian rice production means - on the one hand - protecting these high quality standards and - on the other - not abandoning the productive territories and Italian consumers. Therefore, it would be necessary to act with more energy in Europe, in order to establish mutual rules between the Member States of the European Union and third countries in the field of plant health and trade, in order to promote a transparent market, as well as to take appropriate steps to make applicable also to rice the rules on the labelling of origin of agri-food products, in order to protect the health of consumers and to preserve and enhance rice made in Italy. The protection of Italian excellence would be in vain without the protection of the work that guarantees such excellence. The agricultural workers, very often, are seasonal, underpaid - at this point I join the motion on the caporalate - and without protection: we must work to strengthen inter-force controls and ensure forms of protection of the territory, with particular reference to the areas in which foreign workers operate. In addition, effective coordination between the National Labour Inspectorate and ASL and a more appropriate supervisory power on administration agencies would be desirable for effective supervision of agricultural work safety. We have already tried, in this parliamentary term, to combat the phenomenon of the caporalate. We must now continue to work towards the completion of the national steering booth and the creation and operation of the territorial sections of the network, which are essential points for the experimentation of forms of agricultural placement and transport of workers. The development of the agricultural sector cannot be without these actions and these aspects. To conclude, we are positively putting in place a model of agriculture capable of combining tradition and innovation. We are outlining new future trajectories for a key sector for the national and European economy, in order to protect the environment and hydrogeological balances and to safeguard the richness of our plant and animal biodiversity. It is a crucial historical phase to increase the speed of these virtuous processes and make our country the example in Europe and in the world of responsible agricultural power. We cannot stop right now and, therefore, I hope that the Government will take decisive action in this area. [[Applause from the AP-CpE-NCD Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-07-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-864.ana.u45	She's enlisted to speak Senator Donno. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-07-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-864.ana.u46	Madam President, the purpose of our motion for a resolution on the protection and exploitation of Italian rice is to commit the Government to precise, clear and unambiguous points, which I am going to list below. First of all, we call for the prompt application of the safeguard clause in respect of imports from the least developed countries (the so-called LDCs) in order to review and recalibrate the facilities provided to date for certain customs duties. And not only that: from this it must achieve the identification of shared and reciprocal rules between the Member States of the European Union and between the Member States of the European Union and third countries, in the field of plant health and trade, in order to promote a transparent market that respects social rights, workers' rights and protects the environment. Within the framework of the next Common Agricultural Policy, the specific nature of the rice sector, in particular the Italian sector, must be maintained with appropriate objectives and instruments for the sector. Knowledge of the places and the quality of the national rice productions, now established and estimated on the world markets, must be promoted, especially for its virtuous parameters of quality and food safety, far superior and far from those of rice of Asian origin, completely irrelevant and uncertain. We therefore call for traceability of the supply chain. It is also important to launch, with the resources that will become available, promotional campaigns to increase the consumption of Italian rice in the European Union, a real flagship of our agricultural economy and which must be highlighted. It is also necessary to promote, at national and European level, initiatives aimed at strengthening the surveillance and prevention of unfair commercial practices, first of all misleading advertising and illegal comparative advertising, in order to make public the references of the operators involved in such practices, and to combat the phenomenon of Italian sounding with increasing determination and effectiveness. In addition, initiatives should be taken to extend the insurance on wheat revenues also to the Italian rice supply chain, in order to finally form a protective network to ensure farmers' incomes. Initiatives should be promoted to enhance Italian rice produced and processed directly by farmers (or, in delegation to third-party workers). Our rice, therefore, must be placed in the local market through a direct supply chain and a sale in the premises through farmhouses (or comparable), or in the associations sales circuits, in order to preserve the identity and typicality of the local supply chain between producer and product. Finally, it is necessary to take all the necessary measures not to disperse the particular tradition of Italian rice cultivation; all this, of course, with a view to simplifying the labelling system for products, which must always - I repeat - aim for maximum clarity and transparency. These are essential actions that must be taken quickly, so that the Italian rice sector can be effectively protected. I conclude with the slogan of the international year of rice, a celebration that took place throughout 2004, according to which: Rice is life. They must bear in mind this motto all those who, in recent years, have tried to massacre the Italian rice sector; a sector that must be taken away from the wild competition of unscrupulous businessmen and that truly represents life and sustenance for many people who work in the sector, which deserves to be supported and supported with great strength, the Italian force. [[Applause from the M5S Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-07-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-864.ana.u47	She is registered to speak Senator Fasiolo. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-07-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-864.ana.u48	Madam President, motion No 764 of 4 April 2017, first signed by Senator Bertuzzi, whom I have signed with other colleagues, commits the Government to monitor the practical implementation of the law of contrast to phenomena of caporalate in agriculture; a phenomenon of large and worrying dimensions that involves conditions of exploitation of workers incompatible with the fundamental rights enshrined in our Constitutional Charter; a structured and organized phenomenon. The Head of State in agriculture, but also in other sectors, constitutes a violation of the Italian Constitution and the fundamental rights of the worker: it is exploitation, because the worker does not have a remuneration proportionate to the quantity and quality of the work carried out and because he does not have sufficient remuneration to ensure to himself and his family a free and dignified existence. The duration of the working day normally exceeds that laid down by law and the worker does not enjoy weekly rest and paid leave, as laid down in the second and third paragraphs of Article 36 of the Constitution. We are not talking about the lack of respect for age limits and the lack of protection for mother workers, in violation of other constitutional articles. The premises I have just stated are related to the establishment of Law No 199 of 2016, which involves changes to the penal code; in particular, I refer to Article 603- bis of the penal code. Article 1 of the law - as evidenced by Senator Bertuzzi's first-signed motion - rewrites Article 603- bis as previously formulated in 2011, which punished the corporal alone and configured the crime as a work with ways of exploitation, violence or threat. This wording had proved to be completely inadequate in the course of the five years before the present law to suppress the phenomenon. This resulted in the need to introduce amendments to Article 603 bis, with the rewriting of the intermediary's conduct and the punishment of the employer, even without the use of violence or threats; The involvement in the mediation or use of workers under conditions of exploitation, by the use of violence or threat; the increased graduality of penalties, including financial penalties; the provision of the autonomous offence of the employer who uses, hires or employs labour under working conditions, even without the use of an intermediary. Noteworthy is the fact that the law introduces into the penal code the hypothesis of attenuating circumstances specific to the crime of illicit mediation and exploitation of work, rewarding forms of collaboration with the judicial authority that help to eradicate the phenomenon at the roots. In addition, the strengthening of the quality agricultural work network, provided for in Law No 199, becomes an important tool for controlling and preventing irregular work in agriculture, in particular for foreign workers with seasonal jobs. The operation of the network is therefore fundamental with a structure articulated on the territory, through local nodes or territorial sections, to which the parties to the convention will be able to adhere. With this broad participatory structure will be available the knowledge of data on the quantity, capacity, quality and specialization of the labour available to the needs of the territory and the characteristics of the productions, in order to the modernization of the productive systems. The law's implementation plan also provides for the involvement of state administrations, regions, autonomous provinces, local administrations and third sector. Such cooperation is necessary and must be accompanied by measures to monitor the effectiveness of measures taken to combat this structured phenomenon. Welcome, therefore, is the commitment requested by the Government to carefully verify the concrete application of the law on the caporalate, whose deterrent force requires long time to appreciate its benefits, but in the short term it must find the most appropriate ways to support the intervention plans for the support of the workers who carry out seasonal activities of collection of agricultural products, as well as experimental forms to activate local nodes of the work network of quality and measures to contrast to exploitation. This is an important step, the objective of which is to remove, even with the criminal instrument, a phenomenon that today constitutes one of the most serious obstacles to the freedom and equality of citizens. [[Applause from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-07-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-864.ana.u49	The debate is closed. I call the representative of the Government, and I would ask him to give his opinion on the motions put forward.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-07-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-864.ana.u50	Madam President, I shall confine myself to expressing my views on the motions put forward. Of course, when I give my opinions, I will refer in particular to the commitments contained in the various motions rather than to the whole arrangement in question. I have a favourable opinion on motions for resolutions Nos 1, 2, 4, 8, 8, 8, 9, 10, 10, 10, 10, 10, 10, 10, 11, 11, 11, 11, 11, 11, 11, 11, 11, 11, 11, 11, 11, 11, 11, 11, 11, 11, 11, 11, I am in favour of motion No 821, if we accept some rewordings, which I should like to point out. In point 3) of the device we ask to replace the words "also" and in particular for the parameters of quality and food safety, far superior and far from those of rice of Asian origin, completely irrelevant and uncertain with the following: "taking into account the parameters of quality and food safety; "." In point 4, we would like to add the words: 'following the full application of the rule on the definition of origin;'. In point 5, we ask that the words "to make known and public the references of the operators involved in such practices and "to make them public." Therefore, after the words "unlawful comparative," it would follow the period: "in order to combat with greater determination and effectiveness the phenomenon of Italian sounding"; "in order to combat with greater determination and effectiveness the phenomenon of Italian sounding." In point 7), after the words "promotion," "promotion," we ask to add the following words: "following the full application of the rule on the definition of origin." PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator Donno, do you accept the proposal for reformulation put forward by the Undersecretary? WOMAN (M5S). Yes, Madam President. I would also like to ask Senator Bertuzzi to be able to add my signature to motion No 764. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator Bertuzzi, do you authorize Senator Donno to add the signature to your motion? BERTUZZI (PD). Yes, Madam President. Mr Pizzetti, State Secretary for the Presidency of the Council of Ministers. With regard to Amendment No 583, we propose that the undertaking referred to in point 3 be reworded as follows: to monitor the mechanisms for determining prices and the value chain of agricultural products from agricultural holdings to the consumer; to do so. In point 4, we call for the following rewording: "to consider the possibility of regulatory intervention concerning the exercise of supervision over the activities of the administration agencies"; "to consider the possibility of regulatory intervention concerning the exercise of supervision over the activities of the administration agencies." We then ask that point 5 be reworded so that it begins with the following words: PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Do the presenters accept the proposals for reformulation that have just been put forward? Borioli (PD). Yes, Madam President, we welcome them. Mr Pizzetti, State Secretary for the Presidency of the Council of Ministers. The expression of the opinion on motion No 747 is a little more complicated, because in relation to the operative part, there are both opposing opinions and proposals for rewording. I object to points (1) and (2) of the operative part, i.e. all parts requiring a change to the recently adopted standard. I give a favourable opinion on point 3 of the device if amended as follows: - to carry out a monitoring activity aimed at highlighting any criticalities in the application of the new legislation; - to carry out a monitoring activity aimed at highlighting any criticalities in the application of the new legislation. In point 4, the opinion is in favour, subject to the following rewording: "to assess the possibility and the desirability of taking initiatives to clarify the purpose of the law;" In point 5, replace the words: "to promote any legislative initiative" by the following: "to support any useful initiative" On point 6, the opinion was in favour if the following rewording had been adopted: (ii) to provide for guidelines to be drawn up by the competent authorities throughout the national territory for administrative bodies carrying out verification tasks in the sectors affected by the phenomena involved; The opinion was in favour of the remaining points. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator D'Ambrosio Lettieri, do you accept the proposed changes? D'Ambrosio Lettieri (GAL (DI, GS, MPL, RI)). Yes, ma'am, I welcome them. Mr Pizzetti, State Secretary for the Presidency of the Council of Ministers. With regard to motion 762, I express a favourable opinion after rewording point 1) as follows: "to carry out a monitoring aimed at highlighting possible criticalities in the application of the new legislation and in any case on the state of implementation of the measures of prevention and repression of the phenomenon, with consequent information to the Chambers; ". PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator Gatti, I'm asking you if you accept the rewording proposed by the government. GATTI (Art. 1-MDP). Madam President, I accept that. Mr Pizzetti, State Secretary for the Presidency of the Council of Ministers. On motion No 766 (text 2), we ask that, at the first point of the device, the whole part of the period after the words: "the exploitation of work" be expunged. On point 2, the opinion is in favour by expressing the following words: "in the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy" because it is a question of understanding where to place this telephone number of public utility. On point 3) the opinion is in favour if the following rewording is adopted: "to carry out a monitoring aimed at highlighting possible criticalities in the application of the new legislation and in any case on the state of implementation of the measures of prevention and repression of the phenomenon, with consequent information to the Chambers; " In point 4, the opinion is in favour of replacing the words: "to carry out a campaign" with the following: "to consider the possibility of carrying out campaigns". In point 5, we would like to replace the phrase: "of a special quality mark which can be affixed to the products of the product by the words: "of an ethical mark on a voluntary basis for the product." On point 6, in view of the rewording of point 5, the opinion is opposed as it is absorbed. In point 7, we would like to replace the words: "to put in place appropriate regulatory measures" with the following: "to consider whether to provide for measures" which do not necessarily have to be of a regulatory nature. The opinion was opposed to points 8 and 9). In point 10) the opinion is in favour, provided that the following rewording is accepted: "to consider the possibility of presenting the design of a measure that favours the mediation in the supply and demand of agricultural work in the public and private network of labour services, with the coordination of the regions and under the supervision of ANPAL; "to consider the possibility of presenting a measure that favours the mediation in the supply of agricultural work in the public and private network of labour services, with the coordination of the regions and under the supervision of ANPAL." On point 11), the opinion was opposed because it was contrary to the reformulation of the previous point. The opinion is also opposed to point 12). With regard to point 13), the opinion is in favour, provided that the following rewording is accepted: "to assess the possibility of enhancing the existence of one or more sentences under Article 603 bis of the Criminal Code between the preemptive or limiting requirements for access to European resources in the context of the formulation of public notices, notices or rankings, in line with the provisions of other areas of law". PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator Fattori, do you accept the proposals for reformulation that have just been put forward? FACTORS (M5S). Yes, I accept. Mr Pizzetti, State Secretary for the Presidency of the Council of Ministers. With reference to motion 768, the opinion is in favour, provided that point 7 of the commitments is reworded as follows: "to carry out a monitoring aimed at highlighting possible criticalities in the application of the new legislation and in any case on the state of implementation of the measures of prevention and repression of the phenomenon, with consequent information to the Chambers." As you can see, this phrase is repeated in the various rewordings. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator Lumia, do you accept the reformulation of the government? LUMIA (PD). Yes, ma'am, I accept that.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-07-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-864.ana.u51	I would like to refer to the continuation of the debate on motions for a further sitting.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-07-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-864.ana.u52	The motions, questions and questions received by the Presidency will be published in Annex B to today's report. I remember that the Senate will return to meet in public today, at 4.30 p.m., with the agenda already printed and distributed. The sitting was closed at 10.03 p.m.
