ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-820.ana.u1	The sitting was opened at 16.32 a.m. The Minutes shall be read. Mr Volpoli, Secretary, read the Minutes of the sitting of the previous day. PRESIDENT. - The debate is Since there were no comments, the Minutes were approved.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-820.ana.u2	The list of senators on leave and absent on assignment received from the Senate, as well as further communications to the Assembly, will be published in Annex B to today's Minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-820.ana.u3	I would warn you that qualified votes can be taken in the course of today's sitting by electronic means. Therefore, from this moment the period of 20 minutes from the notice provided for in Article 119, paragraph 1, of the Regulation (at 16.35).
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-820.ana.u4	[[He stands up and with him the whole Assembly.]] Ladies and gentlemen, on 5 May, General Luigi Ramponi, a member of this Assembly in the 12th, 15th and 16th legislature, died at the Celio military hospital, where he had been hospitalized for a few weeks. Luigi Ramponi was born in Reggio Emilia on 30 May 1930. Between 1949 and 1951 he attended the Military Academy of Modena and then the School of Application of the Arm of Turin. Appointed lieutenant in 1951, he took part in the training course for parachute launch and observer pilot of the Army, and then commanded the air departments of the IV and VIII Artillery Regiment of the Army Aviation Training Centre, and, in a later period, the 11th Battalion of the Folgore Mechanized Division. He then attended the Army War School and held positions of military staff at the 5th Army Corps. In 1972, as colonel, he assumed command of the First Regiment. From 1977 to 1980 he was a military attaché at the Italian embassy in the United States. As a brigade general, in 1979 he commanded the Garibaldi Brigade and then the Sardegna Military Region. Since December 1985 he has been head of the General Secretariat of Defense and holds positions as National Director of Armaments and is then appointed, in 1988, Chief of Staff of Defense. From January 1989 to August 1991, he served as General Commander of the Finance Guard, and then, until July 1992, as Director of the Military Intelligence and Security Service. Elected for the first time at the Senate of the Republic in March 1994, in the College of Rome Primavalle, in the ranks of the National Alliance, he became Vice President of the Parliamentary Anti-Mafia Commission. Later, in 2001 he was elected to the Chamber of Deputies, in the college of Venice - San Donà di Piave and took over the presidency of the Defense Commission of the Chamber. He returned to exercise, from 2006 to 2013, the mandate of senator, always elected in Veneto, first with National Alliance and then with the People of Freedom. In addition to being a member of the Defence Commission in the 15th and 16th legislatures, he took part in the work of the Commission of Inquiry into depleted uranium. Luigi Ramponi in the mid-1990s represented one of the most prestigious and significant faces of the process of cultural and political foundation of the Italian democratic right, started with the Congress of Fiuggi in January 1995, also showing how one can divide in one's own existence the service with the uniform and then the participation, subsequently, in political and civil life. In his long parliamentary experience he has served the institutions also through the valuable contributions to foreign and defence policy legislation, obviously deriving also from his extensive notions learned during his intense military career. He has repeatedly been rapporteur for various measures relating to international peace and security missions. Those who have had the privilege of knowing him personally, in Parliament, in the military world and everywhere, remember that he tempers him as an indomitable fighter, professionalism, the trait of lordship of other times, combined with human depth. A sort of spiritual testament is contained in the autobiographical essay "It is worth living", published last year, in which Luigi Ramponi retraces the most salient traits of his life: adolescence in Emilia, the nine years lived in Africa, the return from refugee in Italy after the war, the entry into the Academy and all the many successive stages of a brilliant military and political career. He contributed all the way to institutional activity, just as he did a few weeks ago (after a fundamental motion presented by him and shared by all the groups in the last legislature, for the establishment of a national authority to counter cybercrime) in a conference in the Zuccari room, which saw the participation of the President of the Copasir, the Minister of Justice and representatives of all the parliamentary groups and which represented the drive to intensify the initiatives for the cybersecurity of our country. To express the deep and unanimous participation of the Senate of the Republic in the pain of family, friends and colleagues, I invite the Assembly to observe a minute of recollection. [[The Assembly observed a minute's silence. Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-820.ana.u5	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-820.ana.u6	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-820.ana.u7	Matteoli (FI-PdL XVII). Mr President, Luigi Ramponi, before political and parliamentary, was a high military, very attached to his profession, who exercised with passion, great competence, dignity and prestige, gathering respect for everyone. He held the highest positions with great sense of the institutions. President Gasparri recalled all the passages, although synthesizing them, of his life. As he has already said, after enlisted in 1949 in the Army, Luigi Ramponi quickly climbed all the steps of the military career: official student at the Training Centre, he held the position of military officer at the Italian embassy in Washington; in 1979 he became general of the Bersaglieri Brigade, in 1991 commander general of the Finance Guard and until 1992 director of SISMI. In 1994 he decided to devote himself to politics. The Italian Social Movement had chosen to dissolve in order to create the National Alliance. Ramponi made an important contribution, bringing within the party the sense of belonging to the great patriotic ideals. In 1994 he was elected senator and in Parliament he dealt with defence and security issues. He was elected Vice President of the Anti-Mafia Commission, then moved to the Chamber of Deputies, and then returned to the Senate in 2006. Numerous honors received, along with the unanimous respect that during his existence was bestowed upon him. For our world, from which I honor to come, it has been an important point of reference. During his entire activity, both during his military service and during his parliamentary term, he distinguished himself for seriousness, loyalty and above all for the common sense of the State. Listening to him, his trait, together kind, noble and firm, was evident. Luigi Ramponi was, as we would say now, a man of other times, who had understood the modernity and the cultural revolution that would determine the technology and the advent of the Internet, so much so that in the last glimpse of his life he had devoted himself very much to the reflections of the new technological medium - which now pervades the life of all of us - on security and defence. He never digested the diaspora that there was in the world on the right, so much so that a few months ago he invited us to a meeting to try to put the pieces back together. We knew that this was impossible, but we all went, because so much was the authority of Ramponi that no one felt not to participate. He invited Gasparri, the undersigned, La Russa, Urso, Ronchi, Alemanno and at that meeting he also presented us with a document on which he asked us to reflect; it was a document that even today, when I read it, is of incredible topicality. I don't know where Ramponi will be now; I don't know if where Ramponi is now - I tell those who have the gift of faith - there will be a tennis court, but if there is, it will certainly continue to challenge everyone as it did in the earthly world. We would also like to mention this in this House, of which he was a member with respect and honour. Luigi Ramponi's family will receive the sincere condolences of the Forza Italia Group. It is not only the family that has lost a loved one, but also all of us, politicians, military or ordinary citizens. Ramponi was a character who definitely deserves to be remembered. He has taught us all many things; we hope to have gathered many of his teachings. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-820.ana.u8	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-820.ana.u9	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-820.ana.u10	DIVINE (LN-Aut). Mr President, when it comes to Luigi Ramponi, it is always a pleasure to do so. Who knew him, whether he was sitting on the left, on the right or in the middle of the hemicycle, can only say that he had a very dear colleague. They called him a man of other times, but in my opinion also with an incredible story and an impressive resume. Already in the eighties he was a military attaché at the Italian embassy in Washington and there he probably matures diplomatically as well as militarily; he is already a brigade general in 1979 and in that year he begins to command the Garibaldi Bersaglieri Brigade. From 1982 to 1985 he even directed the Military Region of Sardinia; in 1988 he was appointed under-chief of Defense; then for two years he was commander-general of the Guardia di Finanza and even from 1991 to 1992 he was also director of SISMI. I think he's been in all the military roles. In 1994 he entered this House and remained there, in alternate stages, until 2013. In fact, in 2001 he was elected to the Chamber and in that legislature he was President of the Defence Commission. He was re-elected to the Senate in 2006 and remained there until 2013. On that occasion I had the opportunity to meet this man working all day, reasoning and rightly learning; he is a man who has had recognition and honors in all fields: he was a knight of great cross of the Order "To the merit of the Italian Republic"; silver cross to the merit of the Army; military medal of the Air Force and official of the Legion of Merit for the United States of America. For all the soldiers who knew him he was an exemplary commander; for us we can say that he was a man of great character and a person who served our country politically and professionally with very rare commitment and deep sense of the State. He has never been tender; he was a determined man, but marked by a lordship that - alas - in these classrooms has often been lacking and we really feel the need for that stamp and that example. We would like to represent to the family our affectionate closeness, on behalf of myself and the entire North-Autonomous League Group. He was a great companion of battles and travels. Hi, Luigi. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group and Senator Rizzotti.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-820.ana.u11	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-820.ana.u12	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-820.ana.u13	COMPAGNA (GAL (GS, PPI, M, Id, E-E, MPL, RI)). Mr President, with Senator Ramponi there goes an exemplary character from a civilized Italy, exemplary for his civilization even when he had dressed his uniform. Personally I met him as a colleague in the Senate, but it is as if I had known him before, in my first legislature, in 1992, when, in a way that had wounded him - and that is also evoked in the volume that, appropriately, President Gasparri remembered - his story at the top of our Services ended with a very abrupt leave from the then President of the Council Amato; a fellow senator, who near me - and not only - enjoyed a lot of prestige and authority, Senator Cossiga, imposed a parliamentary question not against the act of President Amato, but certainly full of solidarity and friendship towards Gigi Ramponi, whom I still did not know personally. When this happened, I was grateful to Cossiga for violating the privacy of my individual right to the inspection union. Ramponi's career was exemplary. He came to the so-called top military institutions when then Minister Formica wanted him to head the Guardia di Finanza. Then he went to security services. Senator Ramponi, already at the top of our military and political institutions, continued to travel by bus, I say with the vulgarity of demagogicism that he would not like. He disappears at a time when he was still very useful to his country, not only for the initiative of a short time ago, which President Gasparri appropriately recalled, but also for his love for life, for his good mood. "Academy of Good Mood" was called that "festival" of dinner with jokes that he loved to preside once every two months. Link Matteoli, he was preparing - not necessarily from Paradise - to be invited by a former tennis player like me to the International tennis events; they were evenings that he liked very much and never looked at life just as re-enactment. He really liked international tennis; he really liked jokes. This does not mean that his entry into politics and into Parliament has been insignificant. If something existed that went beyond the National Alliance in the fascist sense - as Benedetto Croce would have said - of the term, it was due to men like Ramponi, like Gaetano Rebecchini who, alongside Professor Fisichella, chose for themselves the role of dragging Gianfranco Fini to deserve that opening of credit that, in a famous interview, had made Berlusconi. Mr Matteoli recalled that the pieces of the center-right had gone composing a diaspora, to which Ramponi never wanted to participate with any of the groups or groups that were reproposed. It was a way of being faithful to its history and to the changes that home history had imposed on its history. From here, the extraordinary affection with which I believe that the whole Senate must join its family today, in the regret of a man of institutions worthy of the best pages of the country's history. [[Applause from the LAG groups (GS, PPI, M, Id, E-E, MPL, RI), Mixed and LN-Aut.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-820.ana.u14	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-820.ana.u15	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-820.ana.u16	WRITER IN TOR (AP-CpE-NCD). Mr President, let me remind you of General Ramponi, because he wanted to be called to Venice. I met him in 2001 when he became honorable with me, and I want to remember him with regard to two aspects. Ramponi was a candidate "piloted" from Rome in the Venetian. Since Alleanza Nazionale refused to collect signatures two days before the deposit of the lists, it was the undersigned who did so in order to run for it. He committed himself to come to the Venetian every fifteen days, even though he lived in Rome, and kept his word, coming every two weeks to follow his college. The other fact I want to remember is about the ethosity of his person. During an electoral rally in front of tens and hundreds of people, a retired woman, given Berlusconi's promise to bring minimum pensions to 1,000,000 lire, and obviously not perceiving that money, said that it was always the usual politicians who told promises without keeping them. General Ramponi replied to the pensioner that that promise would be kept and that he would pay her the difference from her pension until the law came into force; he poured for a number of months (I don't remember exactly how many) the difference to this pensioner, until the law came in that raised the minimum pensions to 1,000,000 lire. This is General Ramponi, whom I remember with esteem and great satisfaction for his sympathy, ethics and rigor. He was a great man, a general and a great politician. We can proudly say that he was a prominent representative of the province of Venice in Parliament, performing the function with great prestige. [[Applause from the AP-CpE-NCD Group and Senator Albano.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-820.ana.u17	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-820.ana.u18	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-820.ana.u19	BONFRISCO (Mixed). Mr President, my colleague, Mr Dalla Tor, has just reminded my fellow Members of the short dimension, even of a local nature, that General Ramponi lived when, as a candidate in our Veneto, he showed the face that many people knew and that the Venetians were also able to appreciate. I am referring to the face of a man who was born a soldier and who has never stopped being that target man and that great commander of the Italian Finance Guard and Security Services, roles he has been able to play in the best way. Mr President, you will allow me to remind General Ramponi of the last part of his legislative activity, which I consider to be the most important, because it is all projected into that future that we are starting to live today and that he had already seen, understood and interpreted from the legislative point of view many years before and long before many others who today use the same terms, sometimes without fully understanding the great significance of it. I am referring to his presence in the Defence Commission, the Anti-Mafia Commission and many times also in the Foreign Commission, which enabled him to use his previous professional experience to influence the adoption of laws relating to the security and defence sectors, precisely by properly implementing that attention which he himself, with bitterness, considered too poor on the part of Parliament in these areas. Yet today we are talking about security and defence almost daily and today more than ever we lack its competence, its knowledge and its great value. Luigi Ramponi was the author of the motion that committed the Government to implement every initiative to specify an institutional architecture that would ensure consistency of action to reduce the vulnerabilities of cybernetic space, to increase the ability to identify the threat and to prevent risks and increase those of coordinated response in crisis situations, because he already imagined the crisis situations that many European countries - and we hope never ours - have found themselves living. From that action came an important decree in 2013, the first stone placed by the Government and the legislator on the theme of cybersecurity, what we all today name and not always know. His words today are worth even more: The awareness of cyber threat in the industrial, academic and political world has spread, thanks to the constant commitment of those who have perceived its importance over time. Among these, of course, for the Italian Government and Parliament more than others, I add precisely that instrument of which he was the first president, the Cestudis, who today is our guide in this field. Even in the Senate, Ramponi has left a deep, indelible, political and human trace, to the point that the friends of the Senate, as defined by those who have also dedicated beautiful words to him between officials and colleagues, conclude their dedication: to Luigi Ramponi, the example of a true lord of the history of Italy, for courage, sobriety, eloquy, affability. That affability and humanity that brought him, left the active service, undressed the clothes of the uniform to assume those of representative of the people, to dedicate his work to his people, but above all to help, in his beloved Africa, 150 children, who in a kindergarten can find education, food, care, like all the human beings to whom he dedicated his life. I am thinking in particular of that family of his who cared so much, first of all of his beloved wife. I believe that that affability, those children, that family today accompany him and guide him on his new journey, where he will face other challenges and will always be present as a target who has 100 pens, as he loved to remember. He will also be able to instill courage there, in that life which he, before us today, savors, and which - I am sure - will fill with all its value and humanity. [[Applause from the GAL Group (GS, PPI, M, Id, E-E, MPL, RI) and Senators Albertini and Rizzotti.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-820.ana.u20	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-820.ana.u21	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-820.ana.u22	Mr ASTORRE (PD). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I have not had the pleasure of meeting the deceased Senator Ramponi but as a Lazio senator and member of the Defence Commission I want to make this speech on behalf of the Democratic Group. Luigi Ramponi, as was recalled, was born in Reggio Emilia on May 30, 1930. He has carried out his entire career and has held various positions in the field of Defense and SISMI, until becoming, from January 1989 to August 1991, commander general of the Guardia di Finanza and, from December of the same year until July 1992, as has been mentioned, director of SISMI. In 1994 he was elected Senator of the Republic, then he went to the Chamber, where he held the office of President of the Defence Commission, and finally returned between these benches in 2006 and 2008, remaining in the Senate until 2013. In his parliamentary work he has always been committed to solving the problems of defence personnel, the efficiency of the armed forces, the fight against organized crime. Other areas in which he has actively engaged have been youth unemployment, the functionality of justice, access to home ownership, military and civil health care. He has been awarded many honors, including: Knight of the Grand Cross of the Order "To the Merit of the Italian Republic," Silver Cross to the Merit of the Army, military aircraft medal for long air navigation (twenty years), official of the Legion of Merit of the United States of America. Ramponi founded and presided over the Centre for Defence and Security Studies (Cestudis), a think tank with which he created, over time, several conferences, initiatives and documented proposals, well documented as President Gasparri also recalled at the beginning, in the matter of cybersecurity. With the death of Luigi Ramponi, therefore, a servant of the State disappears, a man who in all the important positions he has held, in the Finance Guard, in SISMI and in Parliament, has always shown that he has a high vision of the institutions. Until the last few days he has been engaged in important initiatives for cybercrime, in which representatives of government and political representatives of all orientations have participated, as has been well remembered. To his family, all the mourning and closeness of the Democratic Party goes. [[Applause from the PD Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-820.ana.u23	He asked the Minister for Relations with Parliament, Senator Finocchiaro. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-820.ana.u24	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the Government supports the expressions of condolence that have been expressed in this House in memory of President Luigi Ramponi. Let me add my personal memory: what struck him, among the other qualities that were remembered by his colleagues, was his intact intellectual vivacity. A few years ago, together with other Heads of the Senate, we were involved precisely by President Ramponi in the presentation of a motion on cybercrime that was then, let's say, a frontier topic, not explored not only by politics but also by advertising. That motion, and also the fact that a very broad interest and agreement within the Parliamentary Aulas had coagulated around this motion, found recognition of its validity and its meaning with the subsequent acts that were adopted and that even recently, we can really say a few weeks ago, together with President Ramponi we had celebrated at a conference that took place at the library of the Senate. I wanted to remember this because, precisely on that occasion, what once again amazed me was his intact vivacity and intellectual curiosity, which had supported him throughout his activity of political commitment, together with a little of lordship that I believe all the colleagues who had the opportunity to meet him will remember. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-820.ana.u25	The next item is the debate on draft constitutional law Nos. 2643, already approved by the Chamber of Deputies, and 31. The rapporteur, Senator Zeller, has requested authorisation to carry out the oral report. No comments were made and the request was accepted. I therefore call the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-820.ana.u26	Mr President, representatives of the Government, ladies and gentlemen, this measure, already approved in first resolution by the House of Deputies on 11 January, aims to amend the Special Statute for Trentino-Alto Adige/Südtirol, referred to in Decree of the President of the Republic No 670 of 1972, in order to extend also to the Ladin linguistic group some forms of protection already recognized to the German and Italian linguistic groups, in a dynamic vision of the special autonomy that is guaranteed to the aforementioned Region. The text has remained the text approved at first reading by the House of Deputies. However, following the debate and the remarks made during the hearings held in the First Committee on Constitutional Affairs, we felt that we had made some changes: I am referring to the two innovations introduced in the Chamber of the House concerning the electoral system of the Provincial Council of Bolzano and the local authorities of the Province of Bolzano. In particular, Article 2 of the text approved by the House - amending Articles 47 and 48 of the Statute - provided for the election of the Provincial Council of Bolzano by universal and direct suffrage, with a system of proportional representation of the Ladin language group. Similarly, Article 5 of the text transmitted by the Chamber introduced in Article 61 of the Statute of autonomy the prediction that, in the Autonomous Province of Bolzano, municipal councils should have been elected with a system of proportional basis. In the course of the Commission's examination, it was considered to examine whether, following the approval of the provisions referred to, the Province would have been legally entitled to introduce further corrections to the system proportional to the existing Statute. The Province provides, in fact, as the only derogation from the proportional system of election of the Provincial Council, the reserve of a seat in favour of the Ladin minority; in the matter of electoral system of municipal councils, nothing is explicitly provided for. The question raised in the Commission was, in particular, the use of the system formula on a proportional basis, compared with the current wording in the pro rata system text. As noted by some of the authoritative audit experts, including Professor Ceccanti, whom I thank, together with the other speakers, the Constitutional Court, by ruling No 356 of 1998, had already expressed its views on this matter, establishing that the electoral law cannot introduce elements that exclude or make more difficult the representation of the Ladin language group. According to the auditors, therefore, the constitutionalisation of the proportional system, regardless of the formula used - i.e. the existing one or the one approved by the Chamber - does not prevent the introduction of further corrective measures (such as the threshold), provided that they are reasonable and, in essence, do not prevent the representation of lists of Ladin minority expression. If, therefore, a barrier threshold was introduced within the electoral law, it would be necessary to ensure, at the same time, the exclusion of the Ladin lists from its application. This is in order not to make more difficult the access of the Ladin language group, which has a consistency of about 4% of the population resident in the province of Bolzano. Moreover, according to the audits, Article 47 of the Statute currently in force already allows the electoral law of the Autonomous Province of Bolzano to introduce a threshold, thus excluding from the proportional distribution of seats the lists that have obtained a number of votes lower than a given value, without prejudice in any case to the provision of a derogation for the lists expression of the Ladin linguistic group. This principle applies, in the current Statute, in the case of the election of the Provincial Council of Bolzano - hence, the decision to delete Article 2 of the bill, as approved by the House - and would have been valid also for the election of municipal councils, if we had not considered to delete also the provision in Article 5, for similar reasons. In the specific case of municipal councils it should be specified that the Statute of autonomy does not currently provide any system for their election and that, moreover, the Constitutional Court has recognized to the ordinary legislator (state and regional), last with judgment no. 50 of 2015, a particular discretion in the exercise of exclusive competence in the matter of electoral legislation for local authorities. For the Region of Trentino-Alto Adige/Südtirol already in judgment n. 261 of 1995, regarding the interpretation of Article 62 of the Statute - also valid interpretation for the text currently in force, since the formula "collective bodies of the local public authorities in the province of Bolzano" remained identical - the Court had affirmed that only the Regional Council and the Provincial Council of Bolzano were to be considered elected bodies and that, therefore, the guarantee relating to the representation of the Ladin language group, contained within the provision, was not to be applied also to the municipalities of the province and to the related electoral laws. In the light of these assessments and the above-mentioned constitutional case-law, I also considered, in order to overcome the doubts expressed by the oppositions, that the two deleted amendments of Articles 2 and 5, which have been accepted by the Commission, should be submitted to the Commission as rapporteur, allowing the unanimity of all political forces on this measure to be achieved. The further slight modification that we have considered to accept in the Commission concerns Article 10 of the text approved by the Chamber (Article 8 of the text at our examination), with which Article 102 of the Statute is integrated, providing that the supra-municipal body constituted in the territory coinciding with that of the Municipalities where the Ladin-Dolomitic language group of Val di Fassa is installed, the Region and the Province of Trento may assign, transfer or delegate functions, tasks or activities of its own, relevant to the valorization of the Ladin linguistic minority. Having the Parliamentary Committee on Regional Affairs noted that, on the basis of the wording of the text approved by the Chamber of Deputies, it was not easy to understand the nature of the functions proper to the Region and the Province that could have been delegated or transferred - as a theoretical matter of legislative functions - we considered it appropriate to accept this importance, specifying that it would always be administrative functions. On the other hand, all the other provisions in the text approved by the House of Deputies, which I briefly outline, remain unchanged. Article 1 - amending Article 27 of the Statute - allows extraordinary meetings of the Regional Council of Trentino-Alto Adige/Südtirol concerning the rights of the Ladin linguistic minority, as well as the linguistic groups of Mochens and Cimbrians. Article 2, in amending Article 49 of the Statute, provides that, among the rules applicable to provincial councils, there is also that concerning the activity of the Regional Council, which allows to hold extraordinary sessions concerning the rights of the Ladin minority, the Mochens and the Cimbrians also at provincial level. Article 3, amending Article 50 of the Statute, intervenes on the number of Vice Presidents of the Provincial Council of Bolzano, which is raised to three, in case one of the members of the Board belongs to the Ladin language group, providing at the same time that the third Vice President belongs to this language group. Article 4 introduces two further paragraphs in Article 62 of the Statute on the composition of the top bodies of provincial and intermediate local authorities. The new provisions provide that, in the public bodies of provincial importance in which two Vice Presidents are provided, these must belong to linguistic groups other than that to which the President belongs and that, in the intermediate local authorities of which the majority of the population belongs to the Ladin language group, the office of Vice President shall be held by a person belonging to that linguistic group, unless a member of that group is the chairman of the institution. These are, therefore, rules to facilitate the access of the Ladin language group to these tasks. Article 5 makes a number of amendments to Article 84 of the Statute, concerning the procedure for examining budget chapters and voting by language groups. The Statute of autonomy today provides that the vote of the individual chapters of the budget of the Region and the Autonomous Province of Bolzano takes place, at the request of the majority of a language group, separately for linguistic groups. Each chapter, in order to be approved, must then obtain a majority of the votes of each language group; otherwise, the budget chapters shall be submitted to a committee composed of four members, with an equal composition between the two major language groups. In the new text, this procedure remains unchanged only in the case of opposition to the approval of the budget by the German language group or the Italian language group. If the majority of the votes of the Ladin language group are not reached, the budget chapters shall be submitted to a new Joint Committee, composed of three members representing each of the language groups, which shall act unanimously within fifteen days, otherwise the matter shall be referred to the Bolzano Chamber of the Administrative Court, which shall within 30 days decide by arbitration on the names of the non-approved chapters and the amount of the corresponding appropriations. Article 6, which amends Article 89 of the Statute, deals with the transfer of Ladin-speaking staff outside the Province and the proportional distribution between language groups of posts in the organic plants of the judiciary. Firstly, the quota for transfers outside the Province is extended to Ladin-speaking State staff, currently limited to 10% of the posts employed in their respective roles for German-speaking staff only. In addition, it transposes into the Statute the application of the proportional criterion for access to the staff of the judiciary established for the territory of the Autonomous Province of Bolzano also for the Ladin language group, a prediction that today exists only at the level of implementing rules and that from now on it will have constitutional rank. Article 7, by amending Article 93 of the Statute, states that the members of the sections of the Council of State, who are competent to judge appeals against decisions of the autonomous section of Bolzano of the Regional Court of Administrative Justice, may belong not only to the German language group but also to the Ladin language group. Access to the Ladin language group is therefore open, even for these two positions, without increasing the number of state advisers already provided for in the Constitution. Article 8 supplements Article 102 of the Statute, providing that the supra-municipal body established in the territory which coincides with that of the Municipalities where the Ladin-Dolomitic language group of Fassa is established, the Region and the Autonomous Province of Trento may assign, transfer or delegate administrative functions, tasks or activities of its own, relevant to the valorization of the Ladin linguistic minority. Article 9 amends Article 107 of the Statute as regards the composition of the Joint Committee for the Government's opinion on the draft decree laying down rules for the implementation of the Statute. In fact, one of the members representing the State is expected to belong to the German or Ladin language group and one of those representing the Province of Bolzano to the Italian language group. A majority of the provincial councillors of the German or Italian language group may waive the appointment of their representative in favour of a member of the Ladin language group. Here too, therefore, the Ladin language group can be accessed into the Joint Committee. Finally, Article 10 lays down financial cover provisions, while Article 11 lays down the entry into force of the law on the day following its publication in the Official Journal. Finally, I would like to point out that, with the approval of this draft Constitutional Law, several articles of the Statute of autonomy are amended, issued in implementation of the so-called South Tyrol Package and, in particular, of measures Nos.70, 75, 85, 89, 91, 95 and 96. Therefore, in accordance with the minutes of the Italian Government of 22 April 1992 and in the spirit of dialogue and loyal cooperation that has always characterized the Italian-Austrian relations, international procedures should also be initiated in order to achieve the necessary agreements. I conclude by thanking the President of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, Salvatore Torrisi, my fellow Senators, Mr Gianclaudio Bressa, and all the audit staff for their valuable contribution. [[Applause from the Aut Groups (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT) - PSI-MAIE and AP-CpE-NCD.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-820.ana.u27	I declare the general discussion open. He is enlisted to speak Senator Divine. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-820.ana.u28	Mr President, we are discussing a text, a draft constitutional law, which concerns the Statute for the Autonomy of Trentino-Alto Adige. As this Statute is a constitutional law, any amendment to it must be made by means of a draft law with aggravated procedure, in double reading. The problem lies in the legislative initiative. This bill was presented by some colleagues from the House belonging to the Südtiroler Volkspartei, who drafted the first text. We would prefer that in these cases the legislative initiative be left locally to the provincial councils, because this would greatly abbreviate the discussions. In fact, everything that has been approved and modified in the various passages between the Chamber and the Senate must then be endorsed, i.e. it must obtain the opinion of the two Councils of the Autonomous Provinces. You understand well what would happen if, at every step, there were some minor modification or integration. And then we give the idea that, even if they are colleagues belonging to a minority language group (i.e. majority in South Tyrol, but minority in this country), it is Rome that deliberates on peripheral affairs. Beyond that, a path has become a bit worse. Let us say that, to be honest, we have a Statute that has been in place over time: it dates back to 1948 and only minor changes have been made to it. This Statute, probably with great foresight, has been able to temper and contemper demands, ambition and necessity of three different linguistic groups, living together on a border land, which had different stories and different dominations. Until 1918 it belonged to the Austro-Hungarian Empire and since then has been part of the Kingdom of Italy and then of the Italian Republic. The problems of border areas are always to preserve as much as possible uses, customs, languages and populations and to find methods to avoid conflicts and frictions, that is to say to ensure a lasting and stable peace and a good functioning of the delegated authority or, better, of the local authority. The Statute has worked to such an extent that its example has been taken as a reference for European geographical areas where, on the other hand, no major solutions have been found. I am thinking of Bosnia, which tried to imitate it, but it has made a big mess: Bosnia is everything today, but it is stable. There are also three ethnic groups, three groups, three stories. It has also been tried to bring it down to other realities which are just as difficult to manage, such as Kosovo or even Nagorno-Karabakh, areas where the conflict has not yet been defined. In the course of the work, the great catch has been eliminated, because, although the nominalista seemed or the terms could seem equivalent, elect the Council or the local authorities on a proportional basis rather than the proportional method was misleading and, while the protection of the Ladin component is established, remarked and even more strengthened, it ended up no longer protecting the minority group in South Tyrol, which is the Italian mother tongue group, which is equal to about a third of the population, while 70 percent is made up of the other two groups put together. In fact, if we think that a system that is not proportional but on a proportional basis can also be defined as the Italicum, where you could have very high thresholds and majority prizes that, even if with a minimum percentage, make you get 60% of the seats, we understand that, in a system that must represent as balancedly as possible three realities and three different ethnicities, if you anticipate a system that upsets this need, you have little to protect and risk, vice versa, big tail strokes. In our opinion, it was a good thing to include Article 10 - Article 8 of the text proposed by the Commission for our examination - which amends Article 102 of the Statute, according to which it is authorized, in addition to the Region, the Province of Trento to assign to the Common General de Fascia its functions, be administrative or, in any case, own activities relevant to the valorization of the Ladin minority. I say this because, for those who speak, for the League Group, that is perhaps one of the few operational examples of administrative federalism, in the sense that the seven municipalities of the Val di Fassa are seven Ladin Municipalities and, therefore, that is a reality, a single valley, which groups all (or almost all) the Ladin population of the Trentino area. Leaving them to manage their own services, their own school and their own toponymy, they have reached a level of intelligent federalism, saving even on administrative costs no longer at the head of the two Provinces. It is one of the few examples of well-managed federalism, not lowered from above, which works. To the point that the only observation on the whole text is made precisely by the bicameral commission for regional issues, regarding the risk that the Province will be stripped of legislative activities to delegate them to the Common General de Fascia. This risk does not exist, because the Province of Trento and the Province of Bolzano are two Provinces of age: they know what they must do and have also demonstrated what they can do. It is not appropriate, therefore, for a Roman Commission, perhaps even poorly composed, to tell them what is good and what is bad. They have been administered for over sixty years and know exactly what is good and what is bad and if it is necessary to leave even more (subsidized financing) to local authorities. In this case, then, it is a local authority different from all other local authorities: it is not a municipality, it is not a community in the valley, it is not a district, but it is a strongly characterized entity, uniformly characterized, by the component of the population all of the Ladin language. For those who were surprised, because today in this House there was a little talk about everything, and wondering what was still expected, the answer is: nothing. As a matter of fact, there are only very few things that can be fixed. If we go to read, we allow extraordinary sessions of the Regional Assembly to be held in Trentino Alto Adige, when there are problems related to the rights of the Ladin minority (but I think they could have done the same, even if we had not included it). The shot on the Provincial Council of Bolzano is fixed a bit, because the important Ladin component is the South Tyrolean one, predicting that there are no more two, but three Vice Presidents and, if the Ladins have at least one member in the Council (because the Vice President must be a member of the Council), then one of the three Vice Presidents must belong to the Ladin language group. We also share this point. On the question of the proportional system, the term "proportion based" has been deleted, because it was an aberration in here. It is also expected that in the provincial public bodies, since the Presidents are either Italian or German or even, for time periods, Italian and German, then, if the President is an Italian, one of the Vice Presidents will be German and the other Ladin. I mean, you fix the administrative balance a little bit. Much dignity is given in approving the budget to the Ladin component, because the Ladin component is the least and the weakest compared to the Italian and German components. It is stipulated that if, in approving the budget, the majority of the Ladin language group does not approve even a single chapter, the budget cannot be approved and that chapter will have to be approved by a committee, replacing the provincial and regional Council. In this commission, consisting of three components, a component must always be of Ladin native language. With regard to the Common General de Fascia, on which I have already expressed myself, I think it is good that we can delegate functions and activities to this entity, without any additional costs, nor increase. There is a balance within the South Tyrolean community, as well as thirty, belonging to the Common. In short, for once, instead of simply saying 'we protect minorities', we write it on paper and we predict by law that a little more protection will be provided than today and it has not been done in the past. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-820.ana.u29	Senator D'Anna is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-820.ana.u30	Mr President, we are faced with a measure of historical reinterpretation. I will also be dated, but I remember the De Gasperi-Gruber Agreement and remember that it was not easy to find a form of mediation and agreement with the South Tyrolean population, which they generally call Südtiroler. I do not want to disturb the Great War, nor the Sicilians, the Calabrians, the Apulians and the Campanians, who went there to give blood to those Regions to be redeemed. I'm not gonna use rhetoric, but I'm gonna use history. Compared to what is read in this text, it must be said first of all that, if we want federalism, we cannot make these ex-lege impositions to the Trentino-Alto Adige Regional Council and the provincial councils, which I do not know if they have still stood, but there are the municipalities to which some functions should have been delegated and transferred from the Region. However, I would like to congratulate my colleagues in the Südtiroler Volkspartei and do so as a southerner, because if we had the hard work and the political capacity of blackmail and conditioning that these gentlemen have, we southerners probably wouldn't go as far as scumbags who occasionally stand with their hand to ask for some prebenda, as they say on your side. I went around Italy too and once someone slammed the door in my face and didn't let me eat because I was Italian. I don't want to regroup these episodes, but this is a political cunning: you're editing the Cencelli manual. What does the freedom and autonomy of the Ladins have to do with the fact that the budget chapters of the appropriations must be approved unanimously, either by the majority or by the approval of the Ladin advisers? It is as if there were advisers within the Provincial Council or the Regional Council who, unlike the others, have a power or power of decision or ban. What do you have to do with this rule? "Me linguistic minority, you give me more money." Then will you stop, yes or no? Because I ask, instead, for the Neapolitan minority, special powers. I ask you in the name of Benedetto Croce, of Eduardo De Filippo, of Salvatore Di Giacomo, of Giambattista Vico, in short, of many people who have given something to Italy. In this measure you want to divide the Vice-Presidents (one to me, one to you and another to the Ladins). You want to change the electoral system, but if you are 40% of the Province of Bolzano, why should you make an electoral system to guarantee your seats? The Ladins vote for the list of Ladins and take 40% of the seats with a nice proportional system, like all other political forces. Why do you want to be the white hen's kids? And to the friends of the North League I ask: why are you in here, when you talk about a southerner, there with a microscope? Speak of robbing Rome and welfare, say: "we produce and others feed." Well, these are your relatives, because they are in the valleys, and they can have the right to approve the budget. I do not know if you have read this provision: if the majority of the Ladin group does not approve a budget chapter, there is a committee of three people, including a Ladin, and whether that budget chapter is appropriate for the appropriations. Then what other beautiful thing did we come up with? We abolish the Provinces because they are a source of waste and we go to create the Common General de Fascia, to which the Region will delegate, as it did with the Provinces, functions and attributions. Ennio Flaiano said that Italy is a country where Italians have encamped. In fact, we feel encamped, because there are so many linguistic minorities, such as the Greek-Albanian minority in Calabria, yet no one dreams of having for these linguistic minorities electoral systems, budgetary approval procedures, special Statutes, nor is it dreamed that the State would impose it on those communities. So I ask myself: are we federalists or are we not federalists? For these reasons we abstain, because this is not a serious measure, but yet another pastetta that you ask the Italian State. However, there are still some Italians who say: shame yourselves, because these are prebende, not moments of independence and protection of minorities. This is the Cencelli manual of power, because to this aim and nothing else you want. [[Applause from the ALA-SCCLP and Mixed Groups]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-820.ana.u31	Senator Uras is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-820.ana.u32	Mr President, I would like to say that, as an autonomous, I welcome any adaptation of the statutory rules of the Regions to the special Statute to the needs of those communities, so for me this is a measure to be supported and voted on. Having said that, the text under discussion has its roots in the recognition of the linguistic specificity of that community as well; a community where there are several languages in use and citizens who use them and preserve them, also from the cultural point of view as well as identity, and that therefore must be recognized in this sense by the State, by our State. This problem - I am addressing the Government, Parliament and the President of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs - has been awaiting a solution for countless years now. Suffice it to say that the European Charter of Regional or Minority Languages dates back to 1992. It has therefore been twenty-five years. We spend every Thursday ratifying, one after the other, the conventions we have concluded at international level. The European Charter entered into force on 1 March 1998, when it was ratified by five States. It has been signed by 33 countries, including Italy, but it has not ratified it, unlike 24 other countries including Switzerland, Austria, Spain and the United Kingdom, which have a articulation of national communities within them that are not only not afraid to recognize, but which have given full recognition also from the cultural point of view of the language. I therefore wonder why it is not possible to do so also in Italy, right here in the Senate, since the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, since the time when it was chaired by the current Minister Finocchiaro, had been assigned the measures; the Commission has chosen the basic measure on which to set the hearings and the subsequent discussion, which is that of Mr Palermo; it has held the hearings and has called the representatives of the linguistic communities. Despite this, everything is still and it is not possible to unblock the examination of the relevant bill of ratification. This legislature ends up like the others who preceded it where, both in the House and in the Senate, this operation, requested and requested by Sardinian parliamentarians, has never gone into port. It is not a question of having what benefits, also because those few that could be obtained have already been achieved in part by Law No 482 of 1999. They were obtained thanks to a commitment of the Region that invested when it was a matter of making broadcasting programming in Sardinian or Catalan language. There are two linguistic minorities in Sardinia: the Sardinian minority and the Catalan minority. The Catalan of Alghero is the purest one you can find, so much so that the community of Barcelona sends its students to perfect the Catalan in Alghero. It is an important cultural and identity heritage and recognition is almost at no cost, because the costs have already been addressed and covered in part. Mr President, Mr President-in-Office of the Government, President of the Commission, just as we are today making a fair speech in favour of the Trentino community, its national communities and its linguistic identities, the same must be done for Sardinia. Do not make us ask a thousand times for the recognition of a right, which all and the State itself have already formally recognized. This is because our State has signed the European Charter of Regional or Minority Languages, which it must now ratify. During the current parliamentary term, this House has ratified military, economic and financial agreements of all kinds. I believe it is time to make this cultural leap, which is important and awaited by the Sardinian community. In fact, at this stage politics cuts a distance between the center (i.e. the seat of power) and, I don't say the periphery, but the territories, which are articulated and composite and have different cultures and traditions, customs and values that belong to the various communities and are important because Italy is not a unique cultural entity or a block, but has a composition, a articulation that has been productively recognized in a republican and constitutional unity. Therefore, I believe that these things are important and, in anticipating the vote in favour of the draft constitutional law under consideration, I appeal to the President and colleagues of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, the President of the Senate and the Government to resume and conclude the debate on the ratification of the European Charter of Regional or Minority Languages. [[Applause from the Mixed Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-820.ana.u33	On behalf of the Assembly, I address a greeting to some representatives of the Italian Housewife Movement in Prato, present in the gallery, whom we thank for their visit to the Senate. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-820.ana.u34	The general debate is closed. I call the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-820.ana.u35	Mr President, I should like to start by thanking my colleague, Mr Uras, for his remarks and suggestions. I think that the President of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs will be able to schedule, even shortly, the debate on the draft law ratifying the European Charter of Regional or Minority Languages. I would like to remind Mr D'Anna that the articles of the Special Statute for Trentino-Alto Adige concerning the protection of the Ladin linguistic minority of the Province of Bolzano, which we are amending, are the result of the implementation of international agreements and, therefore, are not only part of the Italian constitutional structure, but also have a foundation of international law.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-820.ana.u36	I call the representative of the Government.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-820.ana.u37	Mr President, I would like to speak briefly to take up one particular aspect of this measure. Since this is a bill of parliamentary initiative, the Government returns to the vote of the Assembly, but it guarantees that since the measure provides for the modification of some forecasts covered by the international agreement with Austria, as soon as possible all the international procedures necessary to reach agreement with that country will be initiated so that this can happen.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-820.ana.u38	I would like to say that the Presidency - and it is being distributed - has received the opinion of the 5th standing Commission on the draft law under consideration and on the amendments, which will be published in the annex to today's report. We shall now proceed to the vote on Rule 1. SANTANGELO (M5S). We also call for simultaneous ballots to be carried out by electronic means for subsequent articles and amendments. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). (Senator Calderoli extracts the cards from some absent senator posts.) Senator Calderoli, if you are Vice President adapts to the work, we take your cooperation for good! I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Article 1. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). I beg the assistants to take the cards that Senator Calderoli collected. We shall now proceed to the vote on Rule 2. I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request for simultaneous voting by electronic procedure, previously made by Senator Santangelo, is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Rule 2. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the examination of Article 3, on which an amendment has been tabled, which I would ask the rapporteur to explain.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-820.ana.u39	Mr President, I withdraw this amendment and also the others on my behalf.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-820.ana.u40	The Presidency takes note of this. We shall now proceed to the vote on Rule 3. I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request for simultaneous voting by electronic procedure, previously made by Senator Santangelo, is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Rule 3. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the examination of Article 4, on which an amendment has been tabled, which has since been withdrawn. We shall therefore proceed to the vote on Rule 4. I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request for simultaneous voting by electronic procedure, previously made by Senator Santangelo, is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Rule 4. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the vote on Rule 5. I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request for simultaneous voting by electronic procedure, previously made by Senator Santangelo, is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Rule 5. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B).
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-820.ana.u41	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-820.ana.u42	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-820.ana.u43	ENDRIZZI (M5S). Mr. President, there's still one card under there. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. There were no votes. ENDRIZZI (M5S). In this way the absent Member is present.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-820.ana.u44	All right, I get it. Now she's gonna be picked up by the assistants. We shall now proceed to the examination of Article 6, on which an amendment has been tabled, which has since been withdrawn. We shall therefore proceed to the vote on Rule 6.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-820.ana.u45	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-820.ana.u46	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-820.ana.u47	SANTANGELO (M5S). Mr President, before we proceed to the vote, I would kindly ask you to remove all the cards entered in the senator's benches that are not present because, in accordance with the provisions of your Presidency, this cannot be done. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. All right, Senator. The cards of the absent senators will be withdrawn by the secretary senators. Already Vice President Calderoli had thought about it, but then he interrupted the opera. SANTANGELO (M5S). There's a lot of them, ma'am. Go around and you'll find them.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-820.ana.u48	I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request for simultaneous voting by electronic procedure, previously made by Senator Santangelo, is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Rule 6. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the vote on Rule 7. I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request for a nominal vote by simultaneous ballot, previously made by Senator Santangelo, is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Rule 7. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B).
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-820.ana.u49	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-820.ana.u50	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-820.ana.u51	ENDRIZZI (M5S). Mr President, this is scandalous. We are now on the fourth request to enforce the Rules of Procedure. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Did anyone vote with cards instead of others? (Some Senators of the M5S Group indicate a card inserted in the voting device that does not correspond to the senator's presence.) You are not reporting an irregular vote. There's really no reason to feed this protest.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-820.ana.u52	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-820.ana.u53	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-820.ana.u54	Senator Santangelo, are you referring to a specific case? It doesn't seem to me that colleagues voted using other people's cards. SANTANGELO (M5S). Mr President, in accordance with Rule 118 (1) of the Rules of Procedure, we call for the vote to be cancelled because we do not have the certainty of an express vote but we have the certainty of an inserted ballot that, according to the Rules of Procedure, should not exist. Therefore, if you take responsibility for validating this vote, if you take it, Mr President, because for the purposes of the diary that card has meaning.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-820.ana.u55	I take responsibility because it does not affect the outcome of the vote. I will answer it before the law. [[Comments of Senator Airola]] I took responsibility for it. We shall now proceed to the vote on Rule 8. I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request for a nominal vote by simultaneous ballot, previously made by Senator Santangelo, is supported by the prescribed number of senators. I ask the Secretaries to help me make sure that there are no irregularities, not even potential ones, since there have been no actual irregularities. (The request is supported). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Rule 8. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the examination of Article 9, on which an amendment has been tabled, which has since been withdrawn. We shall now proceed to the vote on Rule 9. I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request for a nominal vote by simultaneous ballot, previously made by Senator Santangelo, is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I would like to refer to the vote by a simultaneous vote on Rule 9. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the vote on Rule 10. I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request for a nominal vote by simultaneous ballot, previously made by Senator Santangelo, is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Rule 10. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the vote on Rule 11. I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request for a nominal vote by simultaneous ballot, previously made by Senator Santangelo, is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Rule 11. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B).
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-820.ana.u56	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-820.ana.u57	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-820.ana.u58	Mr Calderoli (LN-Aut). Mr President, I am speaking very briefly because the synthesis has already been made by Mr Divina in a form that I fully agree with. This bill recognizes the representation of representatives of the Ladin language and therefore of a linguistic minority. I therefore announce that the Group of the North Legacies will vote in favour of this measure in our examination because we have always had the minorities at heart, and therefore also the linguistic minorities. However, I must state, Mr President, that I am in conflict of interest because I am a native German speaker and should therefore have had German at heart. But as I care about the German-speaking minority, I have an obligation to care about the other linguistic minorities as well because the German-speaking minority is a minority at national level, but in South Tyrol it does what it wants, imposing a management of power with an arrogance that is sometimes really unacceptable. I say this because the proposal of law to our examination, which came to us from the House, was born as a real proposal intended to guarantee the representation of the Ladins. In the course of work, however, after it had been approved by a large majority both in the Province of Bolzano and in the Regional Council, someone wanted to table some amendments replacing a proportional electoral system with an electoral system on a proportional basis. It sounds like a linguistic subtlety, but for the love I have for electoral matters, I have to say that this is not the case. The law that I had to carry on my shoulders, the so-called Porcellum, is an electoral law on a proportional basis, so there was the possibility of introducing barrier thresholds and majority prizes. If it had been approved in the text of the Chamber, what at provincial level is the Italian linguistic minority, which should be a majority in that Chamber, would be deleted or reduced. We heard electoral experts, constitutionalists and all representatives of the political forces expressing the Italian-speaking population, except those of the Democratic Party who did not appear at the hearing, but the absence was already an indication of a non-convergence with respect to that text. In the face of the uprising of all Italian-speaking advisers, the rapporteur, whom I thank, accepted my proposal to delete the two articles on electoral matters. We removed the two parts that had nothing to do with the Ladins, they were a genuine Trojan horse aimed at guaranteeing 90% German speaking in the Provincial Council, and so the law can go on. The Special Statute Regions are, for our movement, an objective, something to be replicated also in the other Regions. In conclusion, I would like to remind you that on October 22nd there will be two referendums in Lombardy and Veneto to allow these two Regions also greater forms of autonomy, so finally the Lombards and the Venetians will become even more special: they are already in terms of hard work and productivity; they will become special also from the constitutional point of view and of the legislative powers. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-820.ana.u59	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-820.ana.u60	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-820.ana.u61	WAR (Art. 1-MDP). Mr President, the draft constitutional law we are about to vote on represents a significant step forward in the protection of an important linguistic minority in our country, the Ladin one. In particular, it should be stressed that, also thanks to the work carried out in the Senate, the bill improves the political-institutional representation accorded to this minority. For these reasons, I am voting in favour of the provision by Article 1 - Democratic and Progressive Movement. [[Applause from the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and ……]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-820.ana.u62	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-820.ana.u63	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-820.ana.u64	Mr Barani (ALA-SCLP). Mr President, I would just like to reiterate what Mr D'Anna has just said. Our Group abstains because it believes that this measure could not be done. Perhaps our Constitution has always spoken - and I do not want Mr Calderoli to do so - of the Italian Republic, not of Lombardo-Veneto, which is a historical reminiscence and should therefore be abandoned. We continue to think that the language is unique and it is Italian. I see that there is a large majority in favour of German and Ladin minorities, and the real minority remains the Italian minority in Trentino-Alto Adige/Südtirol. 18.08 p.m.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-820.ana.u65	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-820.ana.u66	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-820.ana.u67	MANCUSO (AP-CpE-NCD). Mr President, we in the People's Alternative will vote in favour of this measure. I have listened to Mr D'Anna's speech in general debate and he shares me with him the Bourbon Kingdom of the Two Sicilies. I must say, about the prebende he was talking about, that they have certainly arrived to the Autonomous Region of Trentino-Alto Adige, but they have also arrived in Sicily and Sardinia: indeed they have arrived! I must say, however, with a pinch of envy, that there, probably, were better used. We must recognize to the friends of Trentino-Alto Adige who have exploited these sixty years of autonomy to get out of a social condition that certainly was not of great wealth, so much so that they have now taken themselves to the top positions in the ranking of quality of life. Evidently in their political activities, what the Italian State has recognized as compensation, while respecting autonomy, has been exploited in the best way. As far as this measure is concerned, we too in Sicily, as in Sardinia, have many linguistic minorities. I would like to address the President of the 1st Commission, Torrisi, because I have presented a bill for the valorization of the Gallo-Italic language, which is widespread in Sicily, but whose traces have been lost: I therefore ask President Torrisi to be able to exhume it to discuss it. I believe that the protection of linguistic minorities is a form of valorisation of territorial specificities, which is not only a label or a form of virtual recognition, but also a virtuous attitude to the growth of these minorities, including from the political, administrative, social and cultural point of view. For all these reasons, we shall be voting in favour of this draft law. [[Applause from the AP-CpE-NCD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-820.ana.u68	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-820.ana.u69	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-820.ana.u70	BERGER (Aut (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT)-PSI-MAIE). Mr President, Mr Undersecretary, ladies and gentlemen, I think that, as Mr Mancuso has also pointed out, those who doubt should come to see how the rights of linguistic minorities are practised in our area and in our territory. In his report to the draft law under consideration, President Karl Zeller has already extensively explained the reasons and significance of the changes introduced to the Special Statute for Trentino-Alto Adige/Südtirol for the recognition of the rights of the Ladin minority and for the full equality of representation of all Italian, German and Ladin language groups. The changes introduced, as we know, concern the Ladins exclusively with regard to the system of ethnic proportional representation in the province of Bolzano. In order to protect all the Ladins present in the territory of the Dolomites, beyond their administration of competence, it will therefore be necessary to continue in this legislative path, even with further ordinary measures. The elimination of all conditions of inequality between the different linguistic groups is consistent with the principles underlying the introduction, with the 1972 Statute of autonomy, of the system of ethnic proportionality, which has favoured the model of coexistence of the different linguistic groups in South Tyrol/Südtirol. Today the conditions for the effective equality of all language groups in the institutional representation and access of the Ladins to the equal commissions of the six and the twelve, which have competence for the adoption of the rules for the implementation of the Statute of autonomy, are determined. Therefore, the profiles that have proved to be inconsistent with the statutory principle of full equality between the different linguistic groups and with the need to give further development to the role of the Ladin minority, which is the least numerous linguistic group, with about 5% of the population of the reference territory, are removed. These principles are reaffirmed by the Constitutional Court in relation to the provincial electoral law, stating that the electoral law cannot introduce elements that exclude or make the representation of the Ladin language group more difficult. The parliamentary debate on this bill, both in the Chamber of Deputies and here in the Senate, has been broad and shared, even beyond the political lines of membership; we have heard the pros and cons. With the same spirit, like Autonomies, we renew the call for a favourable vote that gives certainties and strengthens the statutory guarantees to the Ladin people. It is certainly a moment of absolute significance for the Ladin minority and, as Senator Uras said, it is a cultural leap of this Assembly, for the multilingual model of coexistence which constitutes a reference model for all linguistic minorities in Italy and Europe. For this reason and also for matters of protection of the Ladin minority, on our own initiative, the vote will be in favour of the Autonomous Group-PSI-MAIE. I thank you for the work done both in the Commission and in the Assembly by the Government and the rapporteurs. [[Applause from the Aut Group (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT) - PSI-MAIE.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-820.ana.u71	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-820.ana.u72	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-820.ana.u73	ENDRIZZI (M5S). Mr President, the Statute of the Autonomous Region of Trentino-Alto Adige/Südtirol implements two fundamental constitutional principles contained in Articles 5 and 6 of the Constitution, which are closely linked. The first reads: "The Republic, unique and indivisible, recognizes and promotes the autonomy of the Republic. It is linked to the fundamental principle of democracy: sovereignty belongs to the people. Therefore, citizens must have more tools to decide directly, but it is also necessary that the power and responsibility to govern the territory be conferred on the bodies that know it best, closer and controllable by the citizens themselves. It is not an abstract matter since it impacts on the quality of our lives every day. Let me give you an example: gambling. If the citizens decided we wouldn't have slot machines, scratch cards, and mini-sizes closer to our homes than there is a bus stop or a public garden. Instead, we are witnessing a centralised design, which gathers the power of decision on this phenomenon in the hands of the Government and the Monopolies Agency, prosthetic to protect the interests of financial groups and concessionaries of chance. A design so opposed to constitutional principles (decentralisation, autonomy, but also protection of health, the family, savings, the social usefulness of economic enterprise), as far from the will of the sick, of the entrepreneurs who close because families become impoverished and consumption does not start again. Autonomies and local authorities are the first sensors of this social and economic drift; well, precisely those regional laws, those municipal regulations that protect citizens and curb gambling are under attack today and the Government, in the unified State-Regions Conference, must find in the local authorities a firm bulwark. I cannot believe that the Veneto region, which you mentioned earlier, which calls for greater autonomy, can give up a millimetre on the prerogatives it already has with regard to the power of the local authorities and the responsibilities of the mayors. This is the only way to achieve the best levels of protection, which the Government first inserts and then betrays in its text. Now, why this premise? Because a second constitutional root of the Statute of Trentino-Alto Adige, the one most relevant perhaps to the meaning of this bill, is contained in Article 6 of the Constitution: "The Republic protects linguistic minorities with appropriate rules." In this territory, which sees several minorities present with a reversed role in relation to national planning (i.e. a minority at national level that becomes a majority at local level), the autonomy and the power granted to local authorities must be more closely linked to the representation of these minorities and must realize this link especially in the founding document, the Statute. Mr President, the text approved by the Regional Council and the Councils of the Autonomous Provinces went in this direction: to ensure, within the local representative bodies, the presence of the Ladin minorities, which are now numerically compressed between the population and the political presence of Italian and German-speaking languages. However, we have received from the House of Deputies a text which, compared to the stated purpose, contained something too much and something less than we could have hoped for. In fact, we must point out that during the examination in the Chamber of Deputies there was an undue intrusion into the statutory matter of amendments that were going to alter the electoral system. I leave out the questionable ways in which the event took place, because I am not here to make controversy, but to appreciate the fact that in the Committee on Constitutional Affairs of the Senate (at least there is the Senate) our complaint of wrongdoing was first recognized and then transposed by the rapporteur. I am here to appreciate the agreement between the political forces. The changes introduced, in fact, opened a change in the electoral system, not more proportional, but on a proportional basis. It should be said that, in a population with a large majority of German-speaking languages, the inclusion of corrective minimums, such as a majority premium or a barrier, also leads to exponential distortions of representation. In other words, this would have compressed, rather than protected, the Ladin representation and, in order to understand the impact, even the Italian one. This amendment was therefore contrary to the spirit and purpose of the law, potentially affecting compliance with Article 6 of the Constitution. It would have been very paradoxical that the political forces, which at national level stand as representatives of the German linguistic minority, at local level, where they have a predominant weight, would give in to the flattery of imposing a "dictatorship of the majority." We have averted this paradox, and that is why we are satisfied with the work we have done. Could more be done? Yes, for example, by reserving to the Ladin territories of Gardena and Badia an electoral district, as already arranged in the Autonomous Province of Trento. This would have been an element of protection even more significant for the populations of the territories where the Ladin language is fluently spoken and the culture remains alive and vital. In the spirit of cooperation, we have not tabled any amendments to this effect, as we have not tabled them to ensure that the Ladins are represented within the Junta, as is already foreseen for the Italian-speaking population. But just tomorrow, in the Council of the Autonomous Province of Bolzano-South Tyrol, the electoral law is scheduled and the advisor of the 5 Star Movement Paul Koellensperger presented to the attention of the court the proposal to set up precisely this Ladin district. I therefore hope that all political forces, starting with the SVP, which in Parliament has proposed a bill for the protection of the Ladin minority, will follow up the laudable aims stated in this text, on which the 5 Star Movement, as amended by the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, will vote in favour. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-820.ana.u74	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-820.ana.u75	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-820.ana.u76	DE PETRIS (Misto-SI-SEL). Mr President, this draft constitutional law has enabled us - as we noted in the short debate in this House - to remind ourselves of what we still have to do to ensure adequate protection for all the linguistic minorities present in our country. I will not repeat the issues already raised by Senator Uras and other senators, but I would like to stress that this measure will help us to take a further step forward. It is clear, however, that we are talking here about a much more complex issue. We are not only within the framework of Article 6 of our Constitution, which provides for the Republic to guarantee the protection of linguistic minorities, but also in a situation in a certain different sense, within a modification of the Statute of autonomy of Trentino-Alto Adige, which is the result of a speciality - all our regions have their own history - the result - and I would like to remind you of this - of political, historical and cultural events. The specialty of Trentino-Alto Adige concerns some issues that are not only related to the protection of minorities, but are very intertwined with the history of our country, the border areas and how they were marked. Obviously, the history of Sardinia's specialty and the very idea of Sardinian nation is very different, as is that of Sicily. And I say that because we often tend to make a little bit of a mess. We Senators of the Italian Left have made our contribution to ensuring that the draft law in question is reported in the beehive, precisely, of ensuring the adequate protection of the Ladin minority and, in particular, its representation. This concerns, however, only one part: it concerns, that is, only and only the issues of the Province of Bolzano. I would like to remind you here that the Ladin minority is currently present in two regions, because there is also a part within the Veneto Region and the Province of Belluno. I think, therefore, that this is a first step, but we must then do proper work - as I have reminded all minorities - to ensure that the inequalities in treatment of the minority are eliminated in both regions and in all three different provinces and, therefore, also in the Province of Belluno. The minority, in fact, is divided into those three provinces. We have made our contribution to ensuring that this bill deals with the elimination of unequal treatment and protection of representation through the addition of the third Vice-President of the Council. We have made sure that the amendments to Articles 47, 48 and 61 of the Statute of Autonomy, introduced to the House of Deputies, in the course of a debate and thanks to the hearings held before the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, are removed from the text; absolutely foreign amendments - here I repeat - to the nature of the proposal for the protection of the linguistic minority on the side of representation and proportionality, even ethnic (there is also this part). They were, in fact, going to influence the electoral system for the election of the Provincial Council and the Municipal Councils and artificially led to a change, introducing the elected diction with proportional system, rather than on a proportional basis: this was to undermine the binding principle of the protection of the balance of representation which, in a territory like that, is absolutely fundamental. Many people here have cited as an example their good governance and their ability to guarantee those citizens an increase in their quality of life, but all this has been consolidated thanks to a system of balances and a series of activities that have consolidated over the years. To intervene so heavily in this delicate balance would have been very serious, because it would have allowed, among other things, with that small change in the diction, that we could even introduce majority principles or barricades. In the Committee on Constitutional Affairs we have even heard of awards to further promote the governance of those territories, when it seems to me that it has been very firm for a very long time and in the hands of a very strong party. In the end, the rapporteur, thanks also to the hearings held, accepted and proposed, together with us and other representatives of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, to delete Articles 2 and 5 (i.e. the amendments previously made to Articles 47, 48 and 61 of the Statute) and to return - and this is why we will vote in favour of the draft law - to the original intention of the proposal to effectively ensure the protection of the minority on the side of representation. Of course, we must all work to ensure that the protection system and the elimination of unequal treatment are also extended to the Ladin minorities in the other Provinces. It is absolutely essential - as I have asked the Commission several times - that, pursuant to Article 6 of the draft law, the European Charter for the Protection of Language Minorities should finally be ratified by this House, after many years: there are so many in our country and they represent an element of wealth, because the whole of these diversity has given rise not only to cultural diversity, but also to the beautiful history of various territories, bearing in mind that the situation of the Ladin linguistic minority, precisely, is characterized by a political history and origins very different from the other minorities. This issue concerns - and one day we will have to deal with it in a more complete way - also many other situations of inadequate protection, such as the case of the Friulian minority in the neighbouring region of Friuli-Venezia Giulia, which has less access to the same systems of protection. For all these reasons, in the hope that the House, which will have to continue its examination of the bill, will quickly approve the measure, we announce our vote in favour. [[Applause from Senator Petraglia.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-820.ana.u77	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-820.ana.u78	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-820.ana.u79	MALAN (FI-PdL XVII). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the Forza Italia Group is certainly in favour of protecting linguistic minorities. We are particularly convinced of this at a time when, on the other hand, we tend to concentrate on large numbers and even to cancel or mitigate national identities. We are therefore particularly attentive to the protection of all minorities, and in particular small minorities such as the Ladin one, which is a minority in an area characterised by a strong majority at local level (although a minority at national level) in the German language. This measure contains amendments to the current rules which go in a direction which we consider acceptable and reasonable. Our vote of abstention, however, stems from a perplexity, indeed from a strong concern about the structure of that area precisely regarding the relations between the local German linguistic majority and the main minority, which is the Italian one; in this context there is the third group represented by the Ladin minority. It is a situation that sees with concern on our part a compression of the rights, of the prerogatives, of the Italian aspects of that area - I refer to the polemic notes at the national level, and even more well known at the local level - on the toponymy, on the name of certain localities, which has seen some steps back from the era of the Austro-Hungarian empire, in which several localities were also indicated in Italian, some - it seems in certain circumstances - only in Italian, while today in some cases in the same places one tends to eliminate the Italian name. Little scandal would be if the Italian name had been introduced in a somewhat artificial way: we know the period in which in that area (and also in mine, for example) many localities were renamed in Italian, sometimes with translations or transliterations extremely questionable or not attested in the local culture. In this case, however, these are precisely places that even in imperial times had an Italian name and that now risk losing it. We have situations in which there are norms that do not bring a characterization of ethnic-linguistic group, but they are aimed at a limitation of internal emigration, such as those for which in that Autonomous Province we obtain the right to vote in provincial elections only after four years of residence, it is a forecast that does not exist in any other part of Italy and that is a reality, calculating that elsewhere provincial elections have been abolished for all Italians, with an egalitarianism downward. In the Autonomous Provinces, however, the Province institution is really important, because it is comparable to the Region and is the bearer of a very strong autonomy with considerable prerogatives, splendour and extensive economic endowment. Well, a person who has been resident for three and a half years in those autonomous provinces cannot vote in those elections. These are situations which we think are likely to be more urgent than those dealt with by this bill and cannot be ignored. These are situations that lead to a decline both in numbers and in the incidence of the Italian community in those areas and determine the paradoxical phenomenon for which some Italians sign up as a Ladin minority because this clearly creates advantages, since it is difficult for an Italian really to know the Ladin language, which is not easy to understand even if it is a Romance language. That is what we want to say. In the region of Trentino-Alto Adige/Südtirol there are situations that deserve great attention and must be looked at with concern in some ways and in an innovative perspective, probably much wider than the one proposed today. Our vote of abstention is absolutely not against the Ladin minority, which we respect and believe is right that it has its prerogatives, but it expresses the concern about the situation of Italians and the promotion of a coexistence that goes beyond what was understandably established immediately after the Second World War. In this sense, we shall vote in abstention. [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-820.ana.u80	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-820.ana.u81	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-820.ana.u82	TONINI (PD). Mr President, a hundred years ago - seen now seem a lot, but in the course of history they are a blink of an eye - in those mountains, valleys, villages, lakes and rivers, where today millions of Italians and Europeans alternate to look for a place to live in joy and serenity a moment of vacation, one of the most monstrous carnage of the First World War. That of Trento was the Province of Europe that had the most deaths in proportion to its inhabitants. Fascism, which has inflicted unspeakable suffering on the South Tyrolean people under the banner of depersonalization, forced italianization, up to the monstrosity of the options: if you want to stay here, you have to assume an Italian name, otherwise you have to go to Germany. Alpenvorland has arrived, that is the annexation of Trentino-Alto Adige to the Third Reich, which has brought other unspeakable sufferings. Finally, the Republic has been proclaimed, which has laid the foundations for one of the most extraordinary successful and successful experiences of coexistence between different peoples in a frontier area; one of the most successful in Europe and, automatically, in the world, because there is no place more than in Europe where there has been an attempt to build coexistence as an alternative to war. The Statute of autonomy is born in the climate of the post-war and Republic, which bases on totally new foundations the Italian State. And one of the fathers of this Republic, Alcide De Gasperi, who was certainly the absolute protagonist of the constituent phase, founded it on the pillars of democracy, openness to Europe and recognition of autonomy. Before, Senator Endrizzi rightly recalled Articles 5 and 6 of the Constitution. I would add that another article is the basis of the statutes of autonomy, namely Article 11: Italy repudiates war as an instrument of offense to the freedom of other peoples and as a means of resolving international disputes. One of the main historical international disputes was that of the Brenner, while the other, on the eastern border, was Trieste. Well, it was resolved with the Statute of autonomy, with the De Gasperi-Gruber Pact, first mentioned. The construction of autonomy is perhaps a bit baroque, with all its difficulties, delicateties and contradictions - some of which are highlighted by Senator Malan, who is not wrong in identifying some problems that are and will always be there - but it is an experience of success. De Gasperi in one of the very rare speeches at the constituent assembly, on 29 January 1948, said that history would say whether, by this act of faith in the autonomy, we were right or wrong. I think that today, a long time later, we can say that they were right, because the problem, which in so many other places in Europe and in the world is solved by special troops, has been solved by special autonomy. The measure under consideration changes in a surgical and absolutely delicate way some aspects of the Special Statute of Trentino-Alto Adige and, in particular, the status of the Ladin minority. I would remind you that the Ladin minority has suffered from a relative marginality with respect to the protagonism of the two main actors from the quantitative point of view, namely the Italian and German linguistic groups. I believe it is good not only to strengthen the Ladin component in its dimension as the holder of rights of protection of linguistic minority, in particular in the exercise of language, but also to make it the holder of political and institutional rights. I believe that this is a sign of maturity and intelligence of regional coexistence, particularly in the Autonomous Province of Bolzano. I think it is also a strong point that helps us to make the picture of regional coexistence more complex and rich, because alongside the German, Italian and Ladin linguistic minorities are mentioned the small and very small language enclaves of the Mochens and Cimbri in the Province of Trento. This wealth of minorities is the basis of one of the most successful experiments of cohabitation at world level. I would like to focus on one last aspect. First Senator Calderoli recalled the request for greater spaces of autonomy by the Veneto and Lombardy Regions, moreover pursuant to article 116, paragraph 3, which has seen us discuss animated in recent months. It is good that we really try and finally exercise those additional spaces of autonomy that the Constitution provides. In particular, Veneto does not forget to have in its territory a mountainous province like Belluno, within which there is a significant Ladin community. It is desirable that the autonomy that the Veneto demands in a more meaningful and marked way from the State, pursuant to Article 116 of the Constitution, is then able to recognize it within it to the Province of Belluno and to the present Ladin minority. I believe that in this spirit we can only proceed in a positive way and that the great convergence that has occurred in this House on this subject shows that, around the fundamental issues of respect for the autonomy and the promotion of the self-government of the local communities, our Republic can move in the direction of greater development. [[Applause from the PD Group and Senator Laniece.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-820.ana.u83	President Tonini, as soon as I meet Senator Calderoli, it will be my concern to tell him what you said in your speech. I usually meet him often.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-820.ana.u84	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote in dissent from my Group.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-820.ana.u85	I take note of that and give you the floor.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-820.ana.u86	SMALL (FI-PdL XVII). Mr President, we are dealing with a subject which requires Parliament's attention as a result of an anachronistic and - in my opinion - no longer sustainable legislative chain today, linked to the special Statute of Trentino-Alto Adige. Respect for Ladin linguistic minorities, as well as for all minorities, is certainly a matter of importance, but should be treated in a uniform way throughout the national territory, providing instruments of effective equality, in particular in the Venetian territories bordering Trentino-Alto Adige characterized by ordinary Statute and subject daily to social inequalities and competitive disadvantages, including Ladin minorities in Belluno and territorial specificities. My vote against is linked to the fact that, if minorities are truly protected, the issue is being dealt with as a result of an out-of-time specialty, which supports a real state in the state, which needs true and fair reformer courage. My vote against is also due to the fact that Parliament lags behind on these issues, neglecting in fact to address economic and social issues of enormous importance to citizens and businesses.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-820.ana.u87	Pursuant to Rule 120 (3) of the Rules of Procedure, I call for a simultaneous vote by electronic ballot of the constitutional bill No 2643, in the text amended as a result of the amendments introduced by the Commission. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). The constitutional bill No 31 is therefore absorbed.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-820.ana.u88	Colleagues, we should now move on to the debate on document XXIV, No 73. I did a quick time count and the time would not allow it to be completed. Therefore, having only this subject on the agenda, I shall refer the matter back to another sitting.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-820.ana.u89	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-820.ana.u90	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-820.ana.u91	BLUNDO (M5S). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, since 8 May 2012, news has been leaked about the claim for compensation of a total of eight million euros, paid immediately after the first-degree judgment of 22 October 2012 of the trial on the work of the Commission in favour of the families of the victims of the earthquake in L'Aquila, which on the night of 6 April 2009 caused the death of 309 people and the destruction of the economic and social fabric of the capital of Abruzzo. In practice, the State asks for the repayment of the sums paid for the initial condemnation of all the members of the Commission, in order to have, precisely, provided the victims with information erroneously reassuring, causing them to stay at home at night between 5 and 6 April. Legally, now, it is correct to ask for the repayment of these sums, since the appeal judgment has reversed the outcome - and has also been confirmed in Cassation - with the acquittal of six of the seven members of the Commission major risks. But what leaves us all shocked and embarrassed is the knowledge that, eight years after the tragedy, this request is made - and with interest - to those who have lost children, parents, relatives, loved ones who will never forget and for whom no compensation or pension has ever been provided. Yet, compensation has been given for animals and, despite the end of the process, which has led to the final condemnation, albeit of a single component of the Commission's great risks, Bernardo De Bernardinis, the judiciary felt that there was a causal link between the assurances given to the population by the Commission itself and the decision of many eagles to stay in their homes that tragic night. We in the 5 Star Movement are close to all the family members of the victims, both those who have requested justice and those who have been ignored and neglected in their rights and who are now in danger of receiving yet another humiliation from a state unable to protect and assist its citizens. We look forward to a concrete renunciation of this immoral request. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-820.ana.u92	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-820.ana.u93	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-820.ana.u94	CANDIANI (LN-Aut). Mr President, I rise to point out a situation that has arisen today in Terni and I think it has exceeded the limit. I do so, Mr President, on the contrary, we make our own a document which has been sent by the self-organized workers of the former Novelli, who I shall read, because it shows an extremely serious situation: The Novelli question comes to a new tragic chapter for workers. This morning came the first notifications of the IGC, the integration fund for a year, which is in fact the prelude to dismissal for those workers who had struck demanding compliance with the agreements with which the important food company was delivered to a euro to the Greek family in the face of the commitment to maintain employment levels and avoid layoffs. Not even five months have passed and the commitment has been disregarded with the formalization of 79 dismissals legitimized by the agreements signed to the MISE (13 April) and the Umbria Region (5 May) by the new property and the Confederal unions. Now what happens is that in a territory like Terni, in a working and industrial city we would never have thought it could happen. The former Novelli, today Alimentaliani Srl, is firing for retaliation those who have struck, has not bowed the head, those who have claimed constitutionally guaranteed rights for everyone. The path of dismissal of retaliation is structured on two - I add - very well outlined passages: the first was the one from forced holidays, imposed on those who were going back to work after having strike for eight days against the dismissals announced, the attack on the acquired rights, the salary of all workers. The second started this morning with the notification of the Special Integration Fund to the workers themselves who, after the holidays imposed, should have returned to work. This IGC will lead in a year to the dismissal of those workers who had struck. It is in fact they that the property has decided arbitrarily and in an absolutely discriminatory way to expel from the company. It is not acceptable to have such a heavy attack on workers who have struck at the rights of all. We call on the trade unions, political, cultural forces of the city, other workers, citizens and institutions to break this deafening silence, to counter this unacceptable boss drift - and I would add mafia - and to take a clear stand against this intolerable attack on the dignity of those who work and those rights guaranteed by the Constitution. We avoid creating a dangerous precedent in our territory. Terni, 10 May 2017 That is what happened this morning, Mr President: dismissals for retaliation. These are the results of bad policies at work. We oppose these things, we make this document ours and we will be at the side of those workers to defend their right and that of the other operators of the Novelli group that property in a - I repeat - mafia way is absolutely discriminating and compressing for their speculative interests.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-820.ana.u95	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-820.ana.u96	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-820.ana.u97	CIOFFI (M5S). Mr President, I am speaking because today we have received public works in the Commission a reply to the letter that the Commission sent to the Ministry of Infrastructure and Transport, requesting a copy of the documents of the concession of Autostrade for Italy and its annexes. The Ministry responds to the Commission, and therefore to the Senate of the Republic, saying that they send us such acts in electronic format, but it is necessary to point out that the documentation containing data of an industrial nature and whatever else is confidential and the possible dissemination could cause prejudice to the same. One wonders how it is possible that an act signed between a private concessionaire of the State and the grantor - before it was the ANAS and now it is the Ministry - is not available not only to senators, but to all citizens. This is an important act, since we are talking about the largest motorway dealership in our country, which manages 3,000 kilometres of motorways. It is also very interesting to mention what Antitrust said as early as 2008 when it examined the law of the Berlusconi Government, No 101 of 2008, which changed the method of remuneration of tariffs. According to the Antitrust Act, the possibility of verifying the performance of the operator's productivity during the regulatory period, which will expire in 2038, to periodically review the tariffs and to redistribute to users - I repeat, redistribute to users - some of the possible benefits deriving from the recovery of productivity, and are therefore destined to turn into monopoly rents. This is the story of such a society and of our country, where very important acts such as the concessions of state property are not available, and not only to senators, who will have to read the act in question as if it were TTIP, as if it were a secret act, of which no copy can be extracted, but we must read it on the spot. And if a senator doesn't have the ability to read and analyze an economic and financial plan, it means a subtraction of democracy. It is shameful that these things take place and we want the acts of concession, not only those highways, but also ports, to be made public, because everyone must be able to see what rules a property owned by the State. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-820.ana.u98	The motions, questions and questions received by the Presidency will be published in Annex B to today's report.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-820.ana.u99	The Senate will meet again in public tomorrow, Thursday 11 May, at 9.30 a.m., with the following agenda: (See agenda) The sitting was closed at 19.02 p.m.
