ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-894.ana.u1	The sitting was opened at 16.31 a.m. The Minutes shall be read. Mr Petraglia, Secretary, gave a reading of the Minutes of the afternoon sitting on 5 October. PRESIDENT. - The debate is Since there were no comments, the Minutes were approved.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-894.ana.u2	The list of senators on leave and absent on assignment received from the Senate, as well as further communications to the Assembly, will be published in Annex B to today's Minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-894.ana.u3	I would warn you that qualified votes can be taken in the course of today's sitting by electronic means. Therefore, from this moment the period of 20 minutes from the notice provided for in Article 119, paragraph 1, of the Regulation (at 16,33 hours) begins.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-894.ana.u4	[[He stands up and with him the whole Assembly.]] Ladies and gentlemen, yesterday was the 35th anniversary of the attack on the Temple of Rome on 9 October 1982, considered the bloodiest anti-Semitic attack in Italy during the Second World War. The vile criminal act was perpetrated in the heart of the capital in the same streets that, years before, on October 16, 1943, had witnessed the shame of the deportation of the Roman Jews to the concentration camp of Auschwitz. On October 9, 1982, it was a traditional Sabbath day, which coincided with the celebrations linked to the feast of huts. No security service had been organized outside the Temple. Shortly before noon, families began to leave, when the murderous barbarism broke out for about five endless minutes, with the launch of hand bombs and a series of gunshots at the crowd. The blind and fierce terrorist violence always strikes innocent citizens: on that occasion, the only victim of the vile attack was an unarmed child of only two years, Stefano Gaj Taché, mortally struck by the splinter of a hand bomb. About forty people were injured and among them the parents of the little victim and brother Marco Gadiel, who was four years old at the time, who are here with us today. I greet them with affection. [[Applause.]] To take up the words of the President of the Republic in the inauguration speech of February 3, 2015, Stefano Gaj Taché. He was a child of ours, an Italian child, despite his sadly risen as a symbol of the price paid by our country on the altar of hatred and intolerance. The anniversary of the tragic attack cannot but lead the institutions and citizens to a series of reflections and a rigorous examination of collective conscience. The attack on the Temple of Rome awakens in us the nightmare of the anti-Semitic monster, whose regurgitation, although isolated, unfortunately still persist in our society and, more generally, in the Western world. The assonances with the terrorist acts that in recent times have damaged several cities of Europe and other Continents re-emerge. To unite them is the same feeling of hatred and the will of annihilation of the enemy, all covered by the use of violence as a weapon of political struggle and the exaltation of religious fanaticism. Yesterday's anniversary is therefore a warning to all of us to reaffirm the primacy of the values of freedom, of peaceful coexistence between peoples and religions, of the protection of the rights of all minorities, as well as of the firm refusal of any attempt to justify violence as an instrument of political affirmation or prevarication of a religious creed. Thirty-five years after the attack on the Temple of Rome, it seems necessary to renew, on behalf of the entire Senate of the Republic, a heartfelt and profound feeling of condolence to the family of little Stephen, innocent victim of the terrorist ferocity, and to address a hug and a thought of close proximity to all the people affected, to their loved ones, to the Jewish community, represented today in the Senate by the president of the Union of the Italian Jewish communities Noemi Di Segni and a delegation of the Jewish community of Rome led by President Ruth Dureghello, who are here with us in the gallery, as well as a greeting and a hug to the citizens of Rome. I therefore call on the House to observe a minute's silence. [[The Assembly observed a minute's silence.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-894.ana.u5	The next item is the constitution in court of the Senate of the Republic in a conflict of attribution raised by the Court of Cosenza. By appeal lodged on 8 February 2017, the ordinary tribunal of Cosenza - the second civil section has raised a conflict of attribution between the powers of the State against the Senate of the Republic in order to resolve with which the Assembly, in the anti-meridian session of 16 September 2015, declared the indisputability - pursuant to article 68, first paragraph, of the Constitution - of the opinions expressed by Senator Antonio Gentile, in the context of a civil proceeding pending before the same court of Cosenza - second civil section (Doc. IV-b, No 7-A). The application was declared admissible by the Constitutional Court by order of 7 June 2017, No 155, filed at the Registry on 4 July 2017. At its meeting on 27 September 2017, the Assembly of Parliamentary Elections and Immunities gave a favourable opinion on the constitution of the Senate before the Constitutional Court in order to resist the above-mentioned conflict of attribution. One speaker per group may speak on the conclusions of the Junta for no more than ten minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-894.ana.u6	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-894.ana.u7	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-894.ana.u8	MORRA (M5S). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the subject on which this House is called upon to speak today is exclusively - I repeat: exclusively - the possibility of a constitution in court of the Senate of the Republic in a conflict of attribution raised, in our opinion, in a totally legitimate way, by the Cosenza tribunal in relation to a civil proceeding concerning Senator Antonio Gentile. As is well known, in fact, the Assembly of the Senate, on 16 September 2015, approved the proposal made by the Junta to declare the statements of Senator Gentile himself indispensable. For the reasons already amply set out in that forum, the Parliamentary Group of the 5 Star Movement has voted in the absolutely opposite sense, considering absolutely necessary the civil proceedings against Senator Gentile, which can be judged by ordinary judiciary like all other Italian citizens. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] I repeat: like all other Italian citizens. The direct effect of the constitution in court of the Senate before this procedure can only be to appoint an attorney, happens at a further cost to taxpayers, who will have the mandate to uphold before the Constitutional Court the same arguments, in our opinion - we repeat - incorrect, already supported by the Assembly of the Senate at the time when he declared the opinions of Senator Antonio Gentile indispensable. The eventual failure to set up the resistant party in court does not, however, mean the extinction of the judgment, which therefore can also be carried out without the necessity that the argumentative contribution of the Senate has to reproduce, having already been abundantly expressed in the deliberations of both the Junta and the Assembly of 2015. We are, therefore, faced with a mere aspect of procedural dialectics which, since the thema decides clearly circumscribed of the appeal and already developed in the act promoted by the court, nothing can add and nothing can remove the acceptance in the substance of the question raised by the court of Cosenza that we refer to the Consulta. It would be, therefore, a ritual burden determined only by a well-established practice and, in any case - let me be honest - costly, which at this point, after the declaration of eligibility of the Constitutional Court itself, does not seem useful to repeat. Finally, I would remind this Assembly that the 5 Star Movement Group has repeatedly proposed that the Chambers be deprived of the opportunity to judge their own members by assigning this task exclusively to the Constitutional Court. This, and only this, would surpass the old and unfair principle that those who belong to the caste of parliamentarians can judge themselves, resulting in repeated legal aberrations. This is the autodichia, which subtracts the parliamentarians from ordinary jurisdiction. For the reasons set out, therefore, the Parliamentary Group of the 5 Star Movement will vote against the constitution in court of the Senate of the Republic in the conflict of attribution in question. I am sorry that Senator Antonio Gentile is not here - at least I do not see him - because, while there is a personal aspect, the issue is above all formal and procedural: we cannot unnecessarily renew what would, in the same way, be a burden for the taxpayer. Let the process go on now, since it will have to go on and at the very least save the money of the Italian citizens. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-894.ana.u9	I put to the vote the conclusions of the Junta of Parliamentary Elections and Immunities in a way in favour of the constitution in court of the Senate of the Republic before the Constitutional Court in order to resist in the aforementioned conflict of attribution raised by the tribunal of Cosenza - second civil section. It's approved. ENDRIZZI (M5S). Let's ask for a rehearsal. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I order the doors closed. We proceed to counter-test by electronic procedure. It's approved. The Presidency therefore intends to give a mandate for the constitution and representation of the Senate in court to one or more lawyers from the Free Forum.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-894.ana.u10	The next item is the continuation of the debate on draft law 2886 already approved by the House of Deputies. I would remind you that during the afternoon sitting on 5 October the rapporteur gave the oral report, the general discussion and the reply of the representative of the Government took place and Articles 1 to 4 were approved. I put to the vote the request to vote on Rule 5 for separate parts, tabled by Senator Quagliariello. It's not approved. Mr Giovanardi (PL-Id) Let's ask for a rehearsal. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I order the doors closed. We proceed to counter-test by electronic procedure. It's not approved. We shall therefore proceed to the vote on Rule 5.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-894.ana.u11	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-894.ana.u12	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-894.ana.u13	Mr Giovanardi (PL-Id) Mr President, I believe that today we are doing something shameful and first and foremost offensive of the ceremony we held before in memory of the victims of the memorial attack and the Holocaust. It is clear, in fact, that we are not talking about the Holocaust. We are watering down the Holocaust in other thousands of cases involving war crimes, genocide and crimes against humanity, so we are putting on the same level a single episode of war, which may have cost the lives of a civilian victim of side effects, with the Holocaust. We are doing this - and I would like to draw the attention of the President, who has been magistrates - with an increase in the current sentence - which provides for 15 days to one and a half years in prison or a fine - until we reach an estimated sentence of between two and six years in prison. And that would be an assault! But there has never been an increase that instead of increasing by a third the penalty replaces the fine or the eighteen months in prison with a minimum of two years and a maximum of six years of punishment. And who gets this tile in the head? To the miscapitulate who publishes a "serious minimization" of thousands of facts, those indicated in the famous articles of the International Court, even if there is not a judgment passed in court. As long as he's on the list. I would remind my colleague, Mr Malan, and the other colleagues who have misinformation, that we are not talking here about apology or hate incitement, we are simply talking about a historian or a journalist who writes an article or publishes a book and does not just write it but also spreads it. 16:52 p.m. (Follows YOUNG PEOPLE). The very fact of the spread of his thesis on an event involving the Balkans, Croats, Muslims, Hutus or Tutsis, or concerning Israel or Gaza can lead to incrimination. But what is "severe minimization"? Colleagues, can any of you tell me what "severe minimization" means of a fact and not denial of the same? And can you tell me how it is possible, in a civil and democratic country, to introduce penalties up to six years for crimes that are only of opinion, as a reconstruction that the historian or journalist can make of a particular event? It is no coincidence that some Members have spoken, for example Senator Corsini, who spoke as a historian and said that he refused to vote on such a rule. Casson voted as a historian, jurist and man of culture, remembering that a year ago this Senate removed the minimization because it is a legal aberration and the Commission Justice brought to the Commission the referee an opinion in which it was said that we were in full illegality. The Constitutional Court has branded these criminal rules as not complying with the principle of taxability and the principle of legality. We are filling the penal code with such vast rules that then the process will determine whether within the limits and within the areas of minimization the crime has been provoked or not, but in the meantime the person is denounced and is under trial for a criminal case that is not only absolutely indeterminate, but is also an injury to the fundamental principles of freedom of historical research, it is an injury to the fundamental principles of the possibility of investigating, verifying and doing journalism. There is no apology, there is no incitement to hatred, there is only one opinion that interprets a fact in a different way. Remember, colleagues, how many decades were Katyn's graves attributed to Nazi barbarism? Then, historical research led to the conclusion that those tens of thousands of officers were eliminated by Stalin and the Soviet Union. So what do we do? Should we let history pass a fact as absolutely unjustified because at first the attribution was of a certain kind? But historical research, then, what is it for? I also refer to this morning's debate: the statues of Christopher Columbus, the re-reading of the past, this ideological fanaticism that wants to eliminate all forms of dissent with respect to a historical interpretation that may be in the making, but that must also take into account the conditions in which events took place. At the time of ancient Rome there was a certain mentality, in the Middle Ages there was another one, in the Risorgimento another, because if we do not reread the war on the brigandage made by Piedmontese in the southern regions and maybe those were war crimes too. Maybe, I don't know whether or not they were war crimes, but certainly defining this is entrusted to historical research and not to the fact that a court gets to say that a subject is minimizing what someone might think was a genocide. I see no reason but this bureaucratic, obtuse tendency to say that Europe is asking us to do so. Europe asked us this last year: there is an infringement, we will explain that our system does not allow it. Then, ladies and gentlemen, I am a pro-Israeli, a pro-Jewish man and someone must explain to me why we are threatening six years in prison for those who defend Israel in the event that an international court or a body such as the UN establishes that Israel has committed a war crime with its intervention in Gaza. Of course, I could no longer defend him on that occasion nor explain that, perhaps, the fallen palace was occupied by those who launched rockets to Israel and that, perhaps, civilians were hostages of the same people who then caused the intervention of Israel's army. Well, someone has to explain to me why, while we strike up to six years in prison who, like me, will no longer be able to express such an opinion, dozens and dozens of neo-Nazi Members are elected in Germany, the leader of the party and the vice-president totally deny the Holocaust, and nobody says anything. I would like to understand what kind of world we live in and what Europe is doing: it haunts those who are going to do historical research on a Balkan event and then it says nothing before a parliamentary group in Germany, born on the basis of anti-Semitic considerations and the revisiting and denial of the Holocaust, which arrives in Parliament and actually earns votes? Isn't any of you touched by the thought that these norms, far from helping to create a culture of tolerance, understanding, condemnation of what has been the past, projecting it towards the future, create only dismay? That they create an increasingly liberal country? I remember, among other things, that this measure goes hand in hand with what we have in the Justice Commission, which extends the application of the Mancino law also to xenophobia. I've been joking, not so much, because what is the offence of xenophobia? Is a discussion about migration or migratory flows or the need to regulate them rather than the need to take account of religious factors too? Let's take the song on the Piave: when you say: "The stranger doesn't pass!" or: "Back, go, stranger!" When this rule passes and an anti-militarist denounces me saying that those sentences are offensive and xenophobic, what happens, I go to court to defend myself? Luckily, the papers have noticed. This morning some authoritative weekly and daily have posed the problem. I also recall that all the historians who were asked, not only those present in this House, from Flores to Di Caesar, who had also come in favour of the aggression of negationism - but not of minimization - are definitely opposed to this rule. They wrote it on the "Corriere della Sera", on "La Repubblica", on "La Stampa", they consider it a threat to freedom of research. To all these motivations that we carry what is answered? Simply that we have included this rule in this measure because Europe challenges us with this kind of reality. PRESIDENT. - The debate is Please conclude, Senator Giovanardi, your time is up. Mr Giovanardi (PL-Id) These are the reasons why, of course, we shall be voting against Article 5, which contains this infamous rule.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-894.ana.u14	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-894.ana.u15	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-894.ana.u16	MARTELLI (M5S). We call for the vote to be taken by simultaneous ballot by electronic means.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-894.ana.u17	I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Rule 5. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the examination of Article 6, on which amendments have been tabled which are intended to be presented and on which I invite the rapporteur and the representative of the Government to give their views.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-894.ana.u18	Madam President, I am against all the amendments.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-894.ana.u19	Madam President, I agree with the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-894.ana.u20	We shall now proceed to the vote on the first part of Amendment 6.1. MARTELLI (M5S). We call for simultaneous ballots to be carried out by electronic means. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of the first part of Amendment 6.1, tabled by Senator Candiani and other senators, until the following words are put to the vote: (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). The remaining part and amendments 6.2 and 6.3 are therefore not included. I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Rule 6. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the vote on Rule 7. MARTELLI (M5S). We call for the vote to be taken by simultaneous ballot by electronic means. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Rule 7. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the vote on Rule 8. MARTELLI (M5S). We call for the vote to be taken by simultaneous ballot by electronic means. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Rule 8. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). Having not been tabled on Article 9 other amendments than the deletion 9.1 tabled by Senator Candiani, we shall proceed to the vote on the retention of the Rule. MARTELLI (M5S). We call for the vote to be taken by simultaneous ballot by electronic means. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I refer to the nominal vote by simultaneous ballot of the maintenance of Article 9. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the vote on Rule 10. MARTELLI (M5S). We call for the vote to be taken by simultaneous ballot by electronic means. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Rule 10. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the vote on Rule 11. MARTELLI (M5S). We call for the vote to be taken by simultaneous ballot by electronic means. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Rule 11. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the examination of Article 12, on which amendments have been tabled, which I would ask the authors to explain.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-894.ana.u21	Madam President, Amendment 12.1 is very simple. In Article 12, there is a provision which provides, as clearly indicated in the directive, for the possibility of derogation for some of the mandatory indications, such as indications of the protein content for mixtures containing food additives, the net quantity of products expressed in kilograms, the name or name of the food business operator and the indication of the country of origin, in the case of a third country, which could only be included in the accompanying document. Now, it is not a matter of life or death, let it be clear, and it is not a decisive issue for the content, but it is a lowering of safeguards which, in my opinion, can simply be eliminated by the deletion of paragraph 5, as provided for in amendment 12.1 at my first signature, or - I also explain amendment 12.3 - replacing the word "only" with the word "also". We talk about labelling, we talk about the right of consumers to know exactly where the mixtures come from, who the producers are and which countries. It seems to me to be an easing of incomprehensible rights and I would like to understand that. I would therefore ask the rapporteur and the government to provide a clear explanation of why we are implementing a directive that attenuates the rights of consumers. I have been thinking for a long time before presenting the amendment and I cannot find a valid reason but a mitigation which, in my opinion, responds to other logics and other interests that do not deserve protection, given the efforts that this House, together with the other branch of Parliament, has made and is making to increase the rights of consumers, in terms of awareness and information.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-894.ana.u22	Madam President, I would like to explain both the amendment previously referred to by Senator Ruta (of which I am a signatory) and amendment 12.2, which calls for the deletion of the word 'only'. As my colleague has already pointed out, it is difficult to understand the ratio for which the Government does not accept this type of change. The word "only" excludes consumer protection because it limits labelling only to the accompanying document with regard to mandatory particulars. It is worth remembering that paragraph 5 reads as follows: The particulars referred to in paragraph 3 (b), (3), (c), (d) and (e) may only be given on the accompanying documents. What are these indications? Also in the indication of the country of origin, in the case of coming from a third country. Unfortunately, we saw the closing of the debate with a cut-off vote on Article 5 earlier. In the discussion that took place before the beginning of the session we learned from the Government that there is no intention of making changes to the provision in order not to return to the House. Goodness of God, but if there is a mistake or superficiality or something that can be improved, this must be taken into account. We, Madam President, have always been committed to promoting a policy that makes the consumer aware of the product to be purchased. Any indication that attenuates this consumer's right, that is, that facilitates the entry into the market of products not in line with quality levels, but above all not consistent with geographical indications as we would like (and I think of the Italian product, rather than the non-European one), frankly, leaves us puzzled. I insist that the term "only" should be deleted from the Government. Choose whether to remove it; choose whether, as indicated by my colleague Ruta's amendment, to insert 'also' instead of 'only', but take a position. The problem is not in returning to the House with a quick vow that this provision is slowed down, but it is the quality, the goodness, of this law that, as it is done, honestly leaves us many perplexed. I would therefore ask the Undersecretary to consider this as a commitment that the Government takes on. There will be decrees to make and a subsequent regulatory step. Make a commitment, but do not let the consumer suffer a further deterioration of his right to be informed about the product he is going to buy. PRESIDENT. - The debate is The remaining amendments are set out. I call on the rapporteur and the representative of the Government to comment on the amendments.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-894.ana.u23	Madam President, with regard to Amendments 12.1, 12.2 and 12.3 we could actually think of a transformation into a unitary agenda, with reference to paragraph 5 of Article 12, in order to invite the Government to consider the possibility of replacing the word "only" with the word "also" and therefore to go in the direction desired by the authors of the amendments with respect to the obligation to include, both in the label and in the accompanying documents, the mandatory particulars referred to in paragraph 5.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-894.ana.u24	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-894.ana.u25	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-894.ana.u26	RUTA (PD). Madam President, I would like to clarify very quickly by the Government: is there therefore a subsequent rule or regulation to be issued? I see that the President of the Commission Vannino Chiti, whom I trust blindly, nods. So I don't think we need a pronunciation. At this point, I believe it is necessary, together with my fellow signatories to the other amendments, to turn my own and Amendments 12.2 and 12.3 into an agenda. I do not know whether it is appropriate to replace the word "only" with the word "also" and whether this proposal can be decisive. I would like to address the Government: we could draw up an agenda which commits the Government to take into account the fact that the word 'only' should be replaced by the word 'also', as the rapporteur has just said. I would agree with that and turn Amendment 12.3 with this meaning into an agenda, hoping for a favourable opinion from the Government and the rapporteur. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I would ask the government representative to comment on this proposal as well as on the relationship between the law and the implementing regulation.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-894.ana.u27	Madam President, I do not think that is necessary. Obviously, a delegation law is always followed by implementing decrees or other administrative acts and the object of the two convergent amendments, at the first signature of Senators Ruta and Candiani, provides guidance to the Government that are typical of the implementation activity. I therefore believe that the rapporteur's proposal to turn Amendments 12.2 and 12.3 into an agenda achieves the objective pursued by the two proposers. The Government is therefore in favour of the rapporteur's proposal.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-894.ana.u28	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-894.ana.u29	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-894.ana.u30	CANDIANI (LN-Aut). Madam President, I welcome the call to withdraw amendment 12.2 and to reword it on an agenda, but it is not the usual formula to consider whether it is appropriate, but in a commitment - as we make it clear in writing - to implement subsequent legislation or a decree that goes in the direction of full information for the citizen, so that it is not diminished in any way. This is the main purpose of amendment 12.2, which is essentially the same as that of my colleague, Mr Ruta.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-894.ana.u31	I would ask the rapporteur and the representative of the Government to give an opinion on this.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-894.ana.u32	Madam President, all right, that was the intention.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-894.ana.u33	We therefore consider Amendments 12.1, 12.2 and 12.3. to be withdrawn. Then, before the vote on Rule 12, we shall put the agenda in question to the vote if you so request.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-894.ana.u34	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-894.ana.u35	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-894.ana.u36	MARTELLI (M5S). Madam President, we would like to accept Amendment 12.1, since I am now learning that it has been withdrawn. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Excuse me, but I was incorrect. The amendment has been changed because it is absorbed. MARTELLI (M5S). If anything, it is the opposite, because the scope of amendment 12.1 is greater, since it aims to delete paragraph 5, and so, if anything, it is this amendment that could absorb the others. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. To say that the amendment has been turned into an agenda means that it is no longer there. MARTELLI (M5S). I have listened carefully and the change in the agenda concerned the word "only" and the word "also" and did not refer to amendment 12.1. We delete everything, we start again and we clarify what is retreating and what is transforming, because that is not clear. PRESIDENT. - The debate is The amendments concerning the indication - even, only, or not at all - of the accompanying document are being transformed. MARTELLI (M5S). This concerns only Amendments 12.2 and 12.3 and not Amendment 12.1. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator Ruta, will you also turn Amendment 12.1 into an agenda?
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-894.ana.u37	All right, Madam President.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-894.ana.u38	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-894.ana.u39	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-894.ana.u40	MARTELLI (M5S). Madam President, be patient with my pointiness today, but I cannot understand how Amendment 12.1 becomes an agenda. Can the presenter please explain to me what he intends to write on the agenda? The only way to turn a deletion of a paragraph into an agenda is to write that the Government undertakes to delete that paragraph. Since this can only be done, I would like to understand what agenda we are about to discuss.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-894.ana.u41	The agenda absorbs the concept of abolition, as it engages the Government in a certain direction. The three amendments are therefore absorbed in the agenda, which we will then be able to vote on. I would now like to hear the opinion of the rapporteur and the representative of the Government on Amendments 12.4 and 12.5.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-894.ana.u42	Madam President, I would like to turn Amendment 12.4 into an agenda, otherwise the opinion is against it. I am against Amendment 12.5.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-894.ana.u43	Madam President, I agree with the rapporteur. In particular, I propose that Amendment 12.4 be transformed into an agenda that commits the Government to consider whether to ensure a more reasonable time for disposal of stocks, while Amendment 12.5 is opposed.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-894.ana.u44	With regard to the proposal to turn amendment 12.4 into an agenda, I would like to hear the opinion of the first signatory, Senator Galimberti, who I do not see here. We shall then proceed to the vote on the amendments.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-894.ana.u45	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-894.ana.u46	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-894.ana.u47	Mr Calderoli (LN-Aut). Madam President, I agree with the position taken by Senator Martelli, because it is clear that the transformation of the amendments on the agenda relates to amendment 12.2, which was first signed by Senator Candiani, and amendment 12.3 which was first signed by Senator Ruta, which concerns the deletion of the word "only" and the inclusion of the word "also". So Amendment 12.1, which is entirely deleted from paragraph 5, lives and if it has been withdrawn from Senator Ruta, Senator Martelli has every right to do so: it is absolutely not absorbed.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-894.ana.u48	Excuse me, Senator Calderoli, I believe that the interpretation of the amendments and their transfusion on an agenda belongs to the rapporteur. Mr Calderoli (LN-Aut). No! MARTELLI (M5S). No! PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Calm down, Senator Calderoli: his reaction is slightly intemperant. [[Senator Candiani's comments.]] I am referring to Vice-President Calderoli's reaction. However, if we insist on the vote on Amendment 12.1, because Senator Martelli intends to do so, we shall proceed to his vote. I don't think there's much trouble. What was said by the presenter was different: therefore there is no hostility to this fact. [[Applause from Senator Ciampolillo.]] We shall therefore proceed to the vote on Amendment 12.1. MARTELLI (M5S). We call for simultaneous ballots to be carried out by electronic means. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported).
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-894.ana.u49	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-894.ana.u50	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-894.ana.u51	D'ALI' (FI-PdL XVII). Madam President, I shall vote in favour of Amendment 12.1 for two reasons. The first is substantial: paragraph 5 of Article 12, as has been pointed out by colleagues who then accepted the transformation of certain amendments into an agenda, marks a clear decrease in consumer protection, but I would also like to say of the small producer. Not for nothing, the amendments come mainly from members of the Committee on Agriculture, i.e. from those who, within the framework of the standing committees, are responsible for defending the rights and prerogatives of our producers. Nor does it seem entirely acceptable to me, Madam President, to have an agenda that says otherwise than what a rule states, because this is not an interpretative issue: in this regard, the rule speaks clearly and states that the particulars referred to in the preceding paragraphs can only be given on the accompanying documents. Although the Government, in its application circulars or in its implementing regulations, can arrange otherwise, a subject - and I imagine they are large industrial producers - interested in only including in the accompanying documents some data relating to the quality of the product, which should observe the law and not observe the regulations, in any litigation, in a civil country, could only be right from the judicial point of view. We cannot therefore accept an agenda which states the opposite of what the law states, because the parties concerned would have every right to claim that they had legitimately acted according to the dictates of the law, unless, as unfortunately in our country it is now in vogue, there is a further delegitimization of the primary legislative sources. If the primary legislative source remains the law, there can be no regulation, no matter how much you climb on the mirrors, that can introduce a different behavioural mode. So, we have to change the rule. We could change it with the words mentioned in the subsequent amendments, but that is not possible, because they have been transformed into an agenda which - I repeat - is irrelevant and, in my opinion, unacceptable, because it is in perfect contrast to the rule. The only way to change the rule, therefore, is to delete paragraph 5, as provided for in Amendment 12.1, on which I will therefore vote in favour.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-894.ana.u52	I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 12.1, tabled by Senator Ruta and other senators, which was subsequently withdrawn and taken over by Senator Martelli. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). [[Comments from M5S and Art.1-MDP Groups.]] The agenda on which amendments 12.2 and 12.3. had been amended is therefore not included. Senator Rizzotti, do you accept the call to turn Amendment 12.4 into an agenda? Mr Rizzotti (FI-PdL XVII). Yes, and I ask for the vote. [[Brusio.]] Colleagues, I invite you to stay calmer, otherwise we cannot proceed.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-894.ana.u53	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-894.ana.u54	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-894.ana.u55	CANDIANI (LN-Aut). Madam President, I would ask you for a very short recess to see where we stand. I would like to point out to you that, having deleted the paragraph, the agendas which supported it lapse. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator Candiani, it's already been said. We're at paragraph 7. CANDIANI (LN-Aut). That's great, that's good. He's on the piece for once.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-894.ana.u56	She lost a joke. I'm sorry. I call on Senator Galimberti and other senators to vote by simultaneous ballot on the agenda G12.4 (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 12.5, tabled by Senator Galimberti and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by a simultaneous vote on Article 12 in the amended text. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the vote on Rule 13. MARTELLI (M5S). We call for the vote to be taken by simultaneous ballot by electronic means. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Rule 13. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B).
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-894.ana.u57	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-894.ana.u58	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-894.ana.u59	CALIENDO (FI-PdL XVII). Madam President, in the last vote I wanted to cast an abstention vote, but the mechanism did not work.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-894.ana.u60	We take note of that. We shall now proceed to the examination of Rule 14, on which an agenda has been tabled which is intended to be presented and on which I invite the rapporteur and the representative of the Government to give their views.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-894.ana.u61	Madam President, I am in favour of the G14,200 agenda.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-894.ana.u62	Madam President, I agree with the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-894.ana.u63	Having been accepted by the Government, the G14,200 agenda will not be put to the vote. We shall now proceed to the vote on Rule 14. MARTELLI (M5S). We call for the vote to be taken by simultaneous ballot by electronic means. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Rule 14. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the vote on Rule 15. MARTELLI (M5S). We call for the vote to be taken by simultaneous ballot by electronic means. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Rule 15. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the examination of Rule 16, on which an amendment and an agenda have been tabled which are intended to be presented and on which I invite the rapporteur and the representative of the Government to give their views.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-894.ana.u64	Madam President, I am against Amendment 16.2. I am in favour of the G16,200 agenda if the following rewording is accepted. Firstly, we would like to delete the paragraph before the agenda. In addition, the mechanism should be amended as follows: "take any useful initiative to ensure that, in the light of the outcome of the EU/Pilot procedure in question, the classification of splits and prunings is consistent with existing European legislation".
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-894.ana.u65	Madam President, I agree with the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-894.ana.u66	Senator Cioffi, do you accept the proposed reformulation?
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-894.ana.u67	Mr President, we accept the rewording. We believe it serves to frame the problem and to try to achieve the objective. Of course, we would have been happier if it had not been reworded, but at this stage there can also be a reworded agenda and we accept it.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-894.ana.u68	We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment No 16.2. MARTELLI (M5S). We call for simultaneous ballots to be carried out by electronic means. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported).
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-894.ana.u69	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-894.ana.u70	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-894.ana.u71	CANDIANI (LN-Aut). Madam President, the amendment - which I read in order to make it known to the House - states: The district authorities shall make available on their website, pursuant to Article 8 of Decree-Law No 195 of 19 August 2005, the data of periodic monitoring as obtained from the analyses carried out by those laboratories. When we discussed this in the Commission, we agreed on the usefulness of the amendment, but because of the need to end the process in the Senate without any change, the change in the agenda was accepted. Now, I feel like I understand that the law has to go back to the House. There is therefore no reason why the article should not be changed by including an element of clarity and knowledge for citizens about monitoring data. That is why we shall be voting in favour of the amendment. [[Senator Cioffi suggests he wants to intervene]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-894.ana.u72	He asked the government representative to intervene. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-894.ana.u73	Senator Cioffi, you can talk to me later.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-894.ana.u74	Madam President, the Government's opinion against it has nothing to do with the need to avoid a third reading, since the Government believes that the third reading is useless and that it will probably cost the opening of certain infringement procedures. The question could have been resolved very well - I say this to the Groups that voted in favour legitimately - with an agenda for the Government, which would have followed this direction. [[Applause from Senators Chiti and Ginetti]] If, as I fear, there will be infringement proceedings that will be opened against Italy because of a completely useless vote... [[Comments from M5S and Art.1-MDP Groups]] FORNARO (Art. 1-MDP). Respect Parliament! PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senators Petrocelli and Fornaro, please! Undersecretary Gozi, proceed. Parliament has legitimately expressed itself and I think it is good to proceed. Mr Gozi, State Secretary for the Presidency of the Council of Ministers. Of course, I respect Parliament. Of course. [[Comments of Senator Fornaro]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-894.ana.u75	Senator Fornaro, the presidency will take care of this.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-894.ana.u76	Mr Gozi, State Secretary for the Presidency of the Council of Ministers. I have expressed the reason for the Government's opinion against it, which is not linked to the need to avoid a third reading, otherwise, having to make a third reading, it would be easy for the Government to give a favourable opinion on this point as well. The reason why the Government gives the opposite opinion is not the third reading, but the fact that what Senator Candiani requires is already foreseen as the obligations regarding public access to environmental information are contained in Article 78 of the Environment Code. It has nothing to do with the third reading, but with the fact that it is perfectly useless to add a legal provision, when we all want to simplify, to an already provided for in Article 78 of the Environment Code, which provides for the publication of the river basin management plan, which also contains information on monitoring programmes and their results. Senator Candiani knows this because I have had the opportunity to explain this in the Commission as well. I therefore confirm the opposite view and believe that it is not necessary to insist objectively on this rule.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-894.ana.u77	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-894.ana.u78	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-894.ana.u79	CIOFFI (M5S). Madam President, I would like to speak on Amendment No 16.2 to make it clear that when you gave the floor to the representative of the Government, it would have been better if you had left it to me, given the figure of the Commission. When they say they have these problems, I remember that they are not problems that concern Parliament. In fact, I would like to remind the Government that Parliament is sovereign and does what it considers appropriate and that the Executive should simply carry out our will. It is better that this controversy unleashed by the government is no longer done. PRESIDENT. - The debate is Senator Cioffi, the Presidency has already stressed that the Senate has expressed itself in its full sovereignty and legitimacy and therefore there is no discussion. CIOFFI (M5S). Madam President, it is my prerogative as a Member to express my thoughts. Therefore, I express my thoughts as I see fit, of course with all due respect for the Presidency. On the specific subject, I would like to say that we are talking about the district authorities well knowing that the basin authorities have been removed. The district authorities, which have a management function, are in a rather strange situation, because the suppression of the authorities of the basin, without having done the homogenization of the management plans produces some serious effects. When we talk about the publication of data, for example, we need to know that this falls within the general competence of the district authorities. It should be remembered, moreover, that in southern Italy there is a particularly large and complex district authority to be managed. I would remind you, however, that the Government has made the decisions concerning the definition of the district authorities, which - I repeat - carry out functions within the water cycle and residual functions in the matter of landslides, which have never been mutagenic. Therefore, we have a serious problem with the way in which district authorities are established and defined. Having said that, I repeat that our position on Amendment 16.2 is absolutely in favour, because we believe that things must be clear and specific. Finally, I would like to say to the Government that if Parliament is accused of producing infringement procedures, it is good for the Commission to look first at its own home. In fact, a number of things done by this Government have led to infringement proceedings. So everyone takes on their responsibilities and the government learns to do the government as well as we are good at parliamentarians, but soon we will be there and there will be laughing. [[Applause from the M5S Group. Comments from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-894.ana.u80	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-894.ana.u81	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-894.ana.u82	MARTELLI (M5S). Madam President, on a point of order on Rule 99 of the Senate Rules of Procedure. When expressing his views, the Government representative did not actually confine himself to that, making further statements released from the opinion itself. Therefore, pursuant to Rule 99 of the Senate Rules of Procedure, I would ask that the general debate be reopened by asking eight senators to support my request.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-894.ana.u83	Senator Martelli, the government representative has motivated his opinion, so I'm sorry but your request cannot be accepted. If this were not the case, the Government would not be able to motivate its views in the course of the debate, which I do not believe would benefit the intercourse between Members of Parliament and the Executive. I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 16.2 tabled by Senator Candiani and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group. Comments from the M5S Group and Senator Candiani]] Senator Candiani, we've seen the result. Senator Cioffi, do you insist on voting on the agenda G16,200 (text 2)? CIOFFI (M5S). Yes, Madam President, I insist on the vote. PRESIDENT. - The debate is We shall now proceed to the vote on the G16,200 (text 2).
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-894.ana.u84	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-894.ana.u85	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-894.ana.u86	D'ALI' (FI-PdL XVII). Madam President, I understand that this is an agenda and therefore has the possibility of being better evaluated by the Government, but the subject of the European procedure is real and it must not be resolved by penalising the whole system, especially the local authorities. In fact, at the time when the Government had to decide - and this should do so with a higher standard and not with regulatory provision - to re-introduce the notion of refusal for the cracks and prunings coming from the maintenance activities of the urban green, it would force all the municipalities of Italy to an incredible expense burden, because it would oblige to bring to landfill everything instead that today can be eliminated through the burning, even in function of energy production. So let's be careful. I appeal to the Government; I understand that giving a favourable opinion on an agenda is certainly easy. [[Senator Pegorer's comments. Recalls of the President]] I apologize for my voice, which today is not the best, and perhaps someone can be pleased. The problem is that re-introduction of the notion of refusal for cracks and prunings of urban green means burdening the municipalities with a not indifferent burden, so I would like to ask the Government to reflect on the favourable opinion that is given to this concept. On the other hand, the European procedure must be resolved in the sense of introducing at Community level a concept which is important for Italy. I repeat, the Italian municipalities would come out with the bones broken by the re-introduction of the concept of refusal with regard to urban cracks and prunings, which for now can be hesitated in a much less costly way.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-894.ana.u87	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-894.ana.u88	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-894.ana.u89	TREMONTI (GAL (DI, GS, PPI, RI)). Madam President, in Article 13 there is an asymmetry of language between the heading and the text: perhaps it is a misunderstanding or perhaps a revealing fact. In the column we speak of equine registry and how equine is thought of the horse; in the text we speak instead of equidae, a term that indicates, in addition to horses, also donkeys and mules. I wonder if it is a mistake, a insistence on the part of the Government precisely the particular interest and similitude on donkeys and mules. [[Applause from the LAG groups (DI, GS, PPI, RI), M5S, Art.1-MDP, LN-Aut and Misto-SI-SEL.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-894.ana.u90	Unfortunately, we have already exceeded Article 13, so the Government cannot provide any clarification on this important question. I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of the agenda G16,200 (text 2), presented by Senator Cioffi and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by a simultaneous vote on Rule 16 in the amended text. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the vote on Rule 17. MARTELLI (M5S). We call for the vote to be taken by simultaneous ballot by electronic means. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Rule 17. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the examination of Rule 18, on which an amendment has been tabled which is intended to be presented and on which I invite the rapporteur and the representative of the Government to give its opinion.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-894.ana.u91	Madam President, I am against this.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-894.ana.u92	Madam President, I agree with the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-894.ana.u93	We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 18.1. MARTELLI (M5S). We call for simultaneous ballots to be carried out by electronic means. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 18.1, tabled by Senator Girotto and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Rule 18. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the examination of Rule 19, on which amendments have been tabled which are intended to be presented and on which I invite the rapporteur and the representative of the Government to give their views.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-894.ana.u94	Madam President, I am opposed to both of the amendments tabled in Article 19.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-894.ana.u95	Madam President, I agree with the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-894.ana.u96	We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment No 19.1. MARTELLI (M5S). We call for simultaneous ballots to be carried out by electronic means. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 19.1, tabled by Senators Amidei and Rizzotti. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Let us move on to amendment 19.2 on which the 5th Commission has expressed an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution. D'ALI' (FI-PdL XVII). We are asking for the vote. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request for a vote is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). Pursuant to Rule 102- bis of the Rules of Procedure, I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 19.2 tabled by Senator Pelino and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Rule 19. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B).
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-894.ana.u97	On behalf of the Assembly, I greet the teachers and students of the National Council of Catania, Mario Cutelli, who are attending our work. Welcome to the Senate. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-894.ana.u98	We shall now proceed to the debate on Rule 20, on which an agenda has been tabled, which is intended to be presented.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-894.ana.u99	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-894.ana.u100	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-894.ana.u101	Mr Barani (ALA-SCLP). Madam President, I would like to sign the G20,200 agenda.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-894.ana.u102	The Presidency takes note of this. I call on the rapporteur and the representative of the Government to comment on the agenda.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-894.ana.u103	Madam President, I am in favour.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-894.ana.u104	Madam President, I accept the agenda.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-894.ana.u105	Having been accepted by the Government, the G20.200 agenda will not be put to the vote. We shall now proceed to the vote on Rule 20. MARTELLI (M5S). We call for the vote to be taken by simultaneous ballot by electronic means. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Rule 20. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the examination of Article 21, on which an amendment has been tabled which is intended to be presented and on which I invite the rapporteur and the representative of the Government to give its opinion.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-894.ana.u106	Madam President, I am against this.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-894.ana.u107	Madam President, I agree with the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-894.ana.u108	We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 21.1. MARTELLI (M5S). We call for simultaneous ballots to be carried out by electronic means. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 21.1, tabled by Senators Amidei and Rizzotti. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Rule 21. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the examination of Rule 22, on which an amendment and an agenda have been tabled which are intended to be presented and on which I invite the rapporteur and the representative of the Government to give their views.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-894.ana.u109	Madam President, I propose that we turn Amendment No 22.1 into an agenda and put it on the agenda for Mr G22,200, with a change to the system. [[Brusio.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-894.ana.u110	Senator Candiani, since the rapporteur is speaking on the amendment you are the first signatory to, it would be appropriate for her to listen and then give us her assessment. Please continue, rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-894.ana.u111	The hypothesis is to transform amendment 22.1 on the agenda to assimilate it to the G22,200, but changing the commitment, which would be formulated as follows: • commit the Government to develop, in agreement with the two branches of the Parliament, uniform modalities for the implementation of the information obligations referred to in Articles 4, 14 and 15 of Law No 234 of 2012, in order to allow the Chambers the most informed exercise of the legislative function in European matters, while ensuring the necessary confidentiality of information and documents with respect to third parties •.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-894.ana.u112	Senator Candiani, do you accept the rapporteur's invitation? CANDIANI (LN-Aut). Yes, Mr President, I turn amendment 22.1 into an agenda. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I would ask the G22,200 draftsmen if they would accept the rapporteur's proposal for reformulation.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-894.ana.u113	Madam President, I appreciate the rapporteur's efforts, but honestly the agenda wants to go in the very direction of maximum transparency of the documentation, and not with respect to third parties. We are talking about the documentation available to Members, so I do not understand the confusion that the rapporteur is making by proposing the necessary confidentiality to third parties with respect to an agenda that wants to make available to Members of the Commission 14a all those documents necessary to create an opinion as informed and precise as possible on an infringement procedure or any subject. I would therefore ask the rapporteur to clarify the substance of the matter.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-894.ana.u114	Madam President, the objective of the commitment to the Government, as reworded, is precisely to develop a protocol common to the two branches of Parliament, and thus uniform arrangements, to regulate the implementation of the information requirements laid down in Articles 4, 14 and 15 of Law No 234 of 2012. As information contained in confidential acts, and therefore not legislative measures, in Government and Parliament, the wording also concerns the necessary confidentiality of information with respect to third parties. There is a commitment to the members of the Commission and a protocol is required to make uniform arrangements for the two branches of Parliament.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-894.ana.u115	Senator Montevecchi, do you accept the reformulation?
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-894.ana.u116	Madam President, I understand, but it seems to me that the guarantee of confidentiality of information goes without saying. I wouldn't want to be able to hide a tomorrow behind the specification...
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-894.ana.u117	Do you or do you not accept the request for reformulation? Montevecchi (M5S). No, ma'am, I don't. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I would ask the government representative if he intends to speak on this matter.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-894.ana.u118	Madam President, as we did in the Commission, I would simply like to explain that the objective pursued by the agenda signed by Bottici, Montevecchi, Cioffi is shared by the Government with respect to Law 234. However, we know very well that the regulation on access to European documents requires confidentiality. And, therefore, we must work, on the one hand, to ensure the obligation of confidentiality vis-à-vis the public and, on the other hand, to ensure, in the light of the commitments we have made, as much information as possible to Members. I recall, among other things, President, that the Government has proposed to the House and the Senate a protocol precisely to manage in the best and most fluid way possible - often it is necessary not a rule of law or an agenda, but an agreement between the Government and the Chambers - the need for information at a pre-litigation stage EU Pilot or infringement litigation, in which we are obliged, under the European rules of access to acts, to maintain confidentiality. I would propose to Senator Montevecchi another rewording, which goes in the direction we have already discussed and which may perhaps meet the objections you represent. The commitment would be to develop, in agreement with the two branches of the Parliament, uniform arrangements for the implementation of the information requirements laid down in Articles 4, 14 and 15 of Law No 234 of 2012. The words: "those to ensure the necessary competence and timeliness of the information itself" would be deleted and the rest would remain: This will enable the Chambers to exercise the most informed legislative function in European matters, while ensuring the necessary confidentiality of information and documents vis-à-vis third parties. If this reformulation, which I believe meets the needs of Senator Montevecchi, is accepted, the Government's opinion is favourable.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-894.ana.u119	Senator Montevecchi, do you accept the rewording proposed by the Government of the agenda G22.200? Montevecchi (M5S). Yes, Madam President. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator Candiani, do you accept the formulation proposed by the Government of the agenda G22.1 at your first signature? CANDIANI (LN-Aut). I welcome you, Madam President. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. We shall therefore proceed to the vote on the G22.1, which is identical to the G22,200 (text 2). MARTELLI (M5S). We call for simultaneous ballots to be carried out by electronic means. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of the agenda G22.1, tabled by Senator Candiani and other senators, identical to the agenda G22.200 (text 2), presented by Senator Bottici and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Rule 22. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the vote on Rule 23. MARTELLI (M5S). We call for the vote to be taken by simultaneous ballot by electronic means. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Rule 23. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the vote on Rule 24.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-894.ana.u120	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-894.ana.u121	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-894.ana.u122	BOCCHINO (Misto-SI-SEL). Madam President, I would like to draw the attention of all Members of this House to this article, which concerns so-called data retention. In Article 23, the Government proposes, in application - according to the Government - of Directive 2009/24, to increase the period of data retention of telephone calls, Internet communications, SMS and calls (even without response) to a period of six years. This article was declared in clear contrast to European jurisprudence and legislation by the Privacy Supervisor Antonello Soro, in an interview that dates back to a few months ago, when this provision passed to the House. We are therefore voting for a rule contrary to the European legislation that is being transposed, which talks about measures to combat the phenomenon of foreign fighters and not absolutely electronic communications, telephone calls and SMS. The directive simply calls on us to take the necessary sanctions and enforcement measures and to provide for protection, assistance and support for victims of terrorism. The Government, Madam President, in this case is abusing its power to introduce an illiberal rule, which does not find itself equal in any European country. I would remind this House that in 2006 a European directive for data retention was tried in Europe, which at that time provided for data retention for a minimum of six months and a maximum of twenty-four months. And I repeat 24 months, while we are talking about six years here. And that Directive on data retention was declared by the European Court of Justice in violation of Article 7 of the Charter of Fundamental Rights of the European Union and was repealed on 8 April 2014. And I repeat that we were talking about a directive which provided for data retention for a maximum of two years. In Article 24, Madam President, the Government proposes that we increase data retention indiscriminately for a period of six years. I would also like to point out that the Government will be able to use such an indiscriminate record of Italian citizens' communications not only for terrorist offences, but also for all other offences referred to in Article 407, paragraph 2 (a) of the Code of Criminal Procedure. Therefore, the Government is extending the scope for the use of a liberal and indiscriminate collection of data for offences outside the European directive. Madam President, I call on all my colleagues in this House to take very high consideration of the vote we are voting on Rule 24 and I propose, as my Group will, that we vote against it in such a way that it is abolished and eliminated by the European law that we are currently debating for the protection of the fundamental rights of Italian citizens. [[Applause from the Mixed Group and the Senators De Pin and Mussini.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-894.ana.u123	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-894.ana.u124	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-894.ana.u125	MARTELLI (M5S). We call for the vote to be taken by simultaneous ballot by electronic means.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-894.ana.u126	I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous vote of Rule 24. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the vote on Rule 25. MARTELLI (M5S). We call for the vote to be taken by simultaneous ballot by electronic means. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Rule 25. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the vote on Rule 26. MARTELLI (M5S). We call for the vote to be taken by simultaneous ballot by electronic means. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Rule 26. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the examination of Rule 27, on which an agenda has been tabled which is intended to be presented and on which I invite the rapporteur and the representative of the Government to give their views.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-894.ana.u127	Madam President, I am against this.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-894.ana.u128	Madam President, I agree with the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-894.ana.u129	We shall now proceed to the vote on the G27,200 agenda. MARTELLI (M5S). We call for simultaneous ballots to be carried out by electronic means. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of the agenda G27,200, presented by Senators Bertorotta and Puglia. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Rule 27. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the vote on Rule 28. MARTELLI (M5S). We call for the vote to be taken by simultaneous ballot by electronic means. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous vote of Rule 28. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the vote on Rule 29. MARTELLI (M5S). We call for the vote to be taken by simultaneous ballot by electronic means. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Rule 29. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the vote on Rule 30. MARTELLI (M5S). We call for the vote to be taken by simultaneous ballot by electronic means. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous vote of Rule 30. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B).
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-894.ana.u130	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-894.ana.u131	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-894.ana.u132	FUCKSIA (FL (Id-PL, PLI)). Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, seventy-one days after the adoption of the delegation law of 2 August, we are debating and voting on the fifth European law. The measure, omnibus by its very nature, aims to remedy errors in national legislation, on the advice of the Court of Justice and the Commission itself. In particular, it allows the closure of three infringement procedures concerning the compensation fund for victims of violent intentional crimes; the flat-rate relief of the costs incurred by taxable persons, in favour of the State, in relation to requests for VAT reimbursement, and the safety of food products based on casein and caseinates. [[Brusio]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-894.ana.u133	I call on my fellow Members from the House to do so quietly so that Mr Fucksia can make his speech.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-894.ana.u134	FUCKSIA (FL (Id-PL, PLI)). It also makes it possible to close three EU Pilot cases in relation to particular forms and expressions of racism, xenophobia and negationism - on which, moreover, we know very well the debate that has arisen in this House - of tax concessions for ships registered in the registers of the countries of the European Union and of the economic treatment of former foreign language readers in service at state universities. Other provisions, as always, were inserted later. The text, in fact, has been profoundly modified by the House of Deputies, which has even doubled the number of articles. The Secretary of State for European Policy, Mr Gozi, called for an in-depth discussion of the measure at first reading and at second reading, in order to ensure compliance with the requirements of European legislation. Having said that, it would appear that this provision should simply be endorsed. However, I would like to draw attention to a number of points which I believe deserve some thought. On the one hand, the Government proudly stresses that the number of infringement proceedings, from 2014 to today, has been halved: we have gone from 216 to 65, and it is true, well; on the other hand, however, it fails to say that in the last year we have opened up eight procedures on topics ranging from competition, plastic envelopes, to the fight against delays in transnational payments. In the face of the three locks there are eight open ones: I would say that the balance cannot be defined as optimal, because there are more than five. In addition, over the last two years, we have attacked the simplest infringement procedures, flying over procedures against Italy - for example - in environmental matters, particularly landfills and hazardous waste. We have not yet closed the procedures open to us since 2003 ranging from the Ilva of Taranto to the development of the Community railways, from the Italian legislation on hydroelectric concessions to the construction - incredible, but true - of a new office for judicial offices in the Municipality of Bari. I would also like to make a few comments on some articles: it has been - for example - missed the opportunity, in Article 2 of the transposition of Directive 2014/26/EU, the one that in abstract would allow the free choice of the collective management body for copyright; a battle, shared with many other colleagues, regardless of the deployment and I would like to mention some of them: Ichino, Gambaro, Montevecchi, Ceroni until, of course, my group president, Gaetano Quagliariello. Yet, the Government remains deaf to appeals, accepting a mere agenda, emptied of its deep value, tarped and rendered harmless, until it becomes a mere evaluation of opportunities for approval to the prescriptions of the Commissioner for Digital Gabriel. I would like to know why the government prefers to promise - through the always very kind undersecretary Gozi - to include the same rule, which I proposed as an amendment to the measure under consideration, in the future budget law, instead of immediately protecting artists, interpreters and performers, who to date continue, due to the incomprehensible obstinacy of someone, to be forced by law to rely on the exclusive management - and I would say medieval - of their rights by the SIAE monopoly. Fortunately, the Commission's discretion has a limit, that of the parliamentary vote, and we will wait to see the budget law to see whether pacta sunt servanda, or whether what is promised is a generally accepted concept, or whether the majority will give a different interpretation. This draft law also deals with an area which our representatives in the European Parliament, as well as the Government, should be concerned about: food excellence. In Article 12, implementing provisions are laid down for casein and caseinates intended for human consumption. Overtaking the first observation, namely that we should have implemented this directive by 22 December 2016 - we are as always late and we are forced to include it in the measure under consideration, in order to close the infringement procedure 2017/0129 - I prefer to focus on an even more important issue relating to the substance. Not being able to defend our demands in Brussels and allow our dairy producers to lose the opportunity to use traditional dairy production tools in favour of rules dictated by those who do not own our food background, means condemning those excellences, which should be the spearhead of our economy, in a context of globalized trade. This article prohibits the marketing of products which do not comply with the new legislation beyond the time limit of one hundred and eighty days after the entry into force of the law. I wonder, therefore, if any of the authors of this brilliant piece of legislation has any idea of the seasoning time for dairy products. In your opinion, ladies and gentlemen, why is the "cheese of pit" called this, if not for the annual infusing? What about the sanctions, from 1,000 to 10,000 euros, applicable to small producers, who, when asking at the bank 1,000 euros to provide for their own farms, see themselves slammed in the face? Imagine if they had to ask to pay a fine! Go and ask from 1,000 to 10,000 euros from our farmers, who to date, in the regions affected by the earthquake, have not yet obtained a decent accommodation [[Applause from Senator Quagliariello]] Too bad you lost, in a sort of collective delirium, the sense of shame [[Applause from Senator Quagliariello.]] If, on the one hand, our representatives in the institutions of Brussels fail to obtain a specific regulation on matters dear to us, on the other hand, it is to be noted that we ourselves are obliged - and Article 16 is a demonstration of this - to admit that we cannot protect our wealth on our own. The purpose of this Article is to remedy one of the objections raised by the European Commission in the context of the EU Pilot./15/ENVI case concerning the incorrect application of Directive 2009/90/EC laying down technical specifications for chemical analysis and monitoring of water status. The "Copernican revolution" that we introduce through this article consists in ensuring the quality standards and the intercomparability at the water district level of the monitoring data of chemicals and, consequently, the actual chemical state of the ecosystem of surface water bodies, because to date, due to the multiple authorities and bureaucracy in the sector, deriving from years of lawmaking on the subject without an organic project, we are not able to compare the monitoring data. The Federation of Freedom Group, given the pros and cons, will vote against this measure, because, in addition to the aberrations of Article 5, it does not really remedy the country's structural deficiencies and does nothing but touch the surface of a wider problem. However, there remains the need to restore our credibility towards European partners, which inevitably goes through a serious commitment not only legislative but also political, aimed at closing the infringement procedures against us and a constructive confrontation with the Community institutions on the rules that cannot be considered fair to the Mediterranean Europe to which we belong. Recently produced paper money in France, companies of excellence sold out and then we worry about the ius soli: in a while, perhaps, continuing like this, no one will be so daring to ask citizenship to this beautiful country, but unfortunate, and we will have solved, in the Italian way, also this difficult problem. [[Applause from the FL Group (Id-PL, PLI).]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-894.ana.u135	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-894.ana.u136	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-894.ana.u137	Arrigoni (LN-Aut). Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, undersecretary Gozi, we are dealing at second reading with a sloppy measure, now crippled, when there is a risk of a fire in a part of Europe. On the referendum in Catalonia on Sunday, October 1st, we witnessed so many madness, unprecedented violence by the Spanish Civil Guard, but also embarrassing silences of this Europe without authority. [[Applause from Senator Candiani.]] It is not possible that in 2017, in the very civilized Europe, blood is flowing during a referendum in order to prevent people from voting and choosing. We have all seen the images: military in anti-riot estates that broke through with force electoral seats and exercised violence on citizens, women, men and the elderly, trampling them, using batons and rubber bullets just because they asked to vote; soldiers who mangled the Catalan bomberos; firemen who shielded the citizens who went down to Barcelona Square; bomberos who became, for that gesture, heroes. The violence in Spain is in danger of bringing back the clock of history for over forty years, when there was the Franco dictatorship. It is truly inconceivable that, after all that has happened, the European Parliament and the European Commission should be silent and play down; that President Juncker and Merkel themselves should say, with a pilatesque attitude, that this is an internal matter for the Spanish State. And it is really disturbing that in Italy there has been someone who has exalted the Government of Madrid, who has freed the polling stations, taking it out on women, the elderly and children. It is confirmed that this is not the Europe we dreamed of, that even disregards the Treaty on which the Union is founded, that Article 2 states that the European Union is certainly based on the values of respect for the rule of law, but also on the values of respect for human dignity, human rights, freedom and democracy. In Catalonia, freedom and democracy were raped instead and no one opened their mouths. No one has guaranteed these values, nor has he censored those who have trampled on these values. Europe has once again demonstrated its hypocrisy, as Brussels is repeatedly demonstrating with repeated sanctions against Russia, because Putin is considered non-democratic; sanctions that are hugely damaging to our companies too. Shameful is the silence of over 800 mangled citizens, sent to the hospital because they asked for the right to vote. Violence is never the solution: if violence wins, politics is dead. What is being feared in Spain, the most serious crisis of the post Franco, should worry everyone, first of all the European authorities, but it is known that only the technocrats are in charge there. Madrid has decided to send the army to Barcelona for developments that may occur in the next few hours and minutes. The Spanish Government has already begun to oversee strategic objectives such as airport and judicial offices. Rajoy said it's gonna stop independence. The European Union should strike a blow, but it does little or nothing. Question: why double standards? Why was a Council of Foreign Ministers of the European Union convened in Brussels in February 2008 following the announcement of the Kosovo Parliament's unilateral independence from Serbia? The aim was then to try to reach a difficult compromise between the different positions in the field and I recall that then, on that occasion, Italy, France, Germany and Great Britain were for the immediate recognition of Kosovo's independence. Therefore, undersecretary Gozi, even for Catalonia it would be necessary, indeed necessary, to resort to the weapons of politics and diplomacy in order to help Madrid and Barcelona to dialogue and find a point of democratic fall. Otherwise, the situation could really get out of hand and deflagrate with an escalation of unrest and violence. I start with the conclusions, going back to European law 2017, while - I repeat - the European government remains at the window of the serious facts of Catalonia. We do not agree with this absurd method of regulating and approving everything, abolishing the specificities, but introducing very serious things, such as the rule that, with a tense leg, extends the scope of the aggression of negationism, establishing the punishableness also of serious minimization, as my colleague Erika Stefani said last week in general debate. It is enough to introduce new cases of crimes of opinion which are difficult to demonstrate. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group]] This is dangerous. Then the censorship on the web was very serious. It is unacceptable to give Agcom the right to accept the author's request for the protection of rights: a power that can arrange the deletion of content from the web. This is a network censorship. Attributing to Agcom, an administrative authority, the power to seize the web is hallucinating; it is exactly the opposite of what European standards provide, namely that jurisdiction must be of the judicial authority. Mr Gozi, but should European law not settle disputes with Europe? Here we are laying down the conditions for a new infringement procedure. In the Chamber, set this standard, of course, if this procedure gets there. All these things can only take us further and further away from a Europe that is not that of the peoples, but more and more that of the banks and bureaucrats. This is not good; Europe must be completely changed. It is for this reason that the final vote of the Northern League Group can only be of absolute opposition to this measure. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-894.ana.u138	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-894.ana.u139	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-894.ana.u140	MAZZONI (ALA-SCLP). Madam President, I have not prepared a speech on the secession of Catalonia, but a speech on the European law that we are approving; I believe that it is more appropriate to the debate after the articles that we have approved today, because I believe that the secession of Catalonia is an internal affair of Spain. What we are discussing today is a very important measure, whose provisions, although very heterogeneous among themselves, are necessary in the light of that process of adapting the Italian legal order to the European legal order which has been in progress for some time. Rules such as these are therefore essential in order to achieve that supranational harmonisation of legislation, which is also useful in getting out of the vicious circle of infringement procedures in which we have, unfortunately, very often failed. (18.23) (Following Mazzoni). Perhaps this draft law comes to the final adoption even too late, if we consider, in addition to the aforementioned sanctions in the event of non-compliance with European legislation, in particular the benefits of increasing internal compliance with EU legislation. Receiving supranational guidelines and complying with European directives is, in fact, also an opportunity for the economic growth of our country. The possibility of facilitating our participation in the long-awaited new European investment policy is an important opportunity which must not be wasted on political exploitation or irresponsible evidence of force between majority and opposition. On the contrary, there should be a strong common incentive from the parliamentary classrooms to ensure that Italy can be more and more decisive in Europe, including by participating more and more actively in the drafting and formation of European Union legislation, which must be the daughters of a common policy, agreed and pursued with determination. We must participate more and more effectively in framework decisions, and in order for this to happen, we need the prior implementation of the guidelines contained in the directives which must be transposed, even if not supine, and incorporated into our legislation. Given this premise, the measure we are discussing should allow the filing of three infringement procedures against Italy and overcome other disputes already raised to our country, so as to avoid the formal opening of other procedures. However, it also needs a greater commitment from the Government to assert our economic needs with determination, in order to revitalize our productive fabric to put us on par with the strongest European countries and to urge with greater determination a Europe really united with common policies based on shared choices. The achievement of this objective, whose consequences impact directly on the lives of citizens, must see us as protagonists in the major decisions that Europe is called upon to take. We must not suffer them, as has often been the case, but propose them. In order to do this, however, it is necessary to harmonise internal and supranational legislation so as to ensure that, in the immediate future, but with a long-term view, the economic and social fabric is interconnected at European level so developed that the process towards a political Europe is a necessary step. For these reasons I should have declared the ALA Group's vote in favour - Civic Choice to this law of European delegation 2017. I would have done so if the text did not contain an at least questionable article. I am talking about Article 5, which contains a two-line rule amending the Mancino law and which will create serious problems in its interpretation and application. To introduce the historical minimization of crimes committed against humanity, as defined in Articles 6, 7 and 8 of the Statute of the International Criminal Court, as a criminal offence, is, in our view, a very dangerous and serious step. I want to be clear: there is no doubt that, referring to the Holocaust and its uniqueness, negationism cannot find a single supporter and that we are faced with the greatest crime done in the history of humanity, but the historical truth - as historians say and not me - is not the subject of jurisdiction of the courts. Moreover, when it comes to minimization, it is defined as an absolutely indeterminate and difficult to determine category. This is all the more serious because there are years in prison here and not just a fine. This legislature has distinguished itself to apply and invent very vague offences that do not work well the judges and that are a grave sin of the legislator. That is why, since Article 5 has been adopted, our Group cannot vote in favour of this measure and will abstain. [[Applause from Senator Conti.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-894.ana.u141	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-894.ana.u142	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-894.ana.u143	WAR (Art. 1-MDP). Mr President, on this day there has been a serious wound to democracy. The electoral law that we are preparing to vote in the House prevents voters from choosing parliamentarians. Trust in this electoral law, imposed by the Government on an exquisitely parliamentary law, prevents parliamentarians from discussing the most important law for democracy in the country. All this is done against one of the members of the majority: one consciously chooses to exclude Article 1-MDP from this majority. The European law we are about to vote on is an important act of government action and its majority has a duty to support it. Do it. As far as we're concerned, we'll abstain. [[Applause from the Art.1-MDP Group and Senator Petrocelli.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-894.ana.u144	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-894.ana.u145	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-894.ana.u146	ANITORI (AP-CpE-NCD). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the measure under consideration at the so-called Community session confirms the fruitful commitment that the Government and Parliament have constantly put in place to implement the opportunities resulting from Italy's membership and participation in the European Union. European law, therefore, is not only a technical instrument useful to reduce the number of disputes that the Community institutions have raised against Italy, but a real political investment of our country in the process of bringing national legislation closer to the European one. This is a choice which we believe to be strategic and qualifying and which we have constantly strengthened and reaffirmed in this parliamentary term. In fact, this determination has allowed, in a little more than three years, to halve the number of infringement procedures and to make Italy the most virtuous country in the management of cases of Community litigation. With the adoption of this measure we will close three further infringement procedures and define seven other EU Pilot cases. We know perfectly well that Italy remains one of the countries with a fairly critical dispute with the European Union, but it is equally clear that the constant work of recent years has led us to reach today the historic minimum of 65 open procedures. It is an objective achieved thanks to a double attention: on the one hand, the ability to intervene quickly in both litigation and prevention and, on the other hand, the increased compatibility of Italian legislation with Community legislation, testifying to a greater awareness of the positive impact that European policies can have in our country as well. In 2016, compared to the number of new open litigation procedures, Italy did better than Germany and France and in the same year this virtuous path has translated into an economy of over 180 million euros. However, in addition to the obvious economic benefits, this result bears witness to the fact that for the Government and Parliament the issue of European construction is not a banner to be used only in times of need, but - rather - a deep conviction of the need to translate Community values and principles into choices that speed up integration and strengthen the protection of European citizens. Under European law, therefore, we place Italian citizens and businesses in a position to benefit, like other European citizens, from the greater rights and the better guarantees provided by Community legislation, by virtue of Europe's ability to respond better than individual Member States to people's expectations. It is certainly not necessary to stress the strategic importance of the issues addressed in the measure, with interventions on the free movement of goods, persons and services, provisions on taxation, work and health, as well as important environmental forecasts. Moreover, with the approval of the measure, the scope of the negationist attack will be extended and the discipline of compensation to victims of intentional and violent crimes will be taken into account, extending its scope. Another relevant standard is roaming. Indeed, on 15 June this year, the European Parliament removed the last obstacle to the abolition of roaming costs, allowing all European citizens to use mobile phones, smartphones and tablets at no extra cost while travelling to Europe. In order to make this novelty fully effective, however, it was necessary to intervene in national law, introducing sanctions for the violation of European provisions and that is what we have done. The text of the draft law also deals with e-commerce, in order to strengthen the responsibilities for operators who commit illegals; it introduces important provisions in tax matters, allowing Italian citizens and businesses to take advantage of the same possibilities as all other European citizens; it novels the national legislation on State aid and energy. After a long negotiation, we have finally adopted Community guidelines on energy companies and, at the same time, using the savings of component A3, we will reduce the costs of bills for households and non-energy companies. This is a very fair forecast which helps businesses and, therefore, employment and families. In short, the rights of European citizens, the digital single market and homogeneous fiscal policies: there are many aspects that contribute to making the sense of European citizenship concrete and with this measure we bring Italy closer to Europe. However, we are also aware that the challenge is not simply that of individual interventions. In the background, the deep crisis that the European Union is going through weighs heavily. In order to get closer to Europe, we must be able to combine the road we have travelled so far, built on daily achievements of citizenship, with a new road, capable of renewing a real European social pact. National governments and political forces all too often speak only to their audiences, without thinking about a common future, riding the feeling of insecurity and distrust, often without being able to look beyond their borders. We cannot benefit from being European in order to save on telephone rates to surf the Internet from abroad, but to forget this common destiny when it comes to planning an orderly and social sharing of the migrant emergency or when more resources are required for social protection policies. For this reason, with the same determination with which we have worked in recent years to bring Italians closer to Europe, we believe it is essential to continue our efforts to bring Europe closer to Italians. For these reasons, it is only through a shared and renewed European strategy that we can hope to relaunch the process of integration and with this draft law we are going in exactly this direction. I therefore express, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Alternative, the vote in favour of this measure and, at the same time, as a Group, we reaffirm our commitment to Europe becoming a real and concrete instrument of cohesion and peace, capable of creating a new common social name. We shall vote in favour of this by looking at the national interest and with the full responsibility of a strongly European political force, which never wants to give in to easy slogans and populisms, but continues to take the path of European integration seriously. [[Applause from the AP-CpE-NCD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-894.ana.u147	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-894.ana.u148	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-894.ana.u149	LIUZZI (GAL (DI, GS, PPI, RI)). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, European law is a particularly important instrument in the process of Italy's participation in fulfilling its obligations and exercising the powers deriving from our country's membership of the European Union. With the text before us today, we are, as usual, called upon to adapt national legislation to that of the European Union. In general, therefore, we regularly deal with rules aimed at preventing the opening of infringement procedures or closing them, healing situations which, on the basis of the rulings of the European courts or the calls of the European Commission itself, would not be in line with European legislation. The vexed question of negationism is an example of this, although it is difficult to follow Europe on this subject without wronging the consciences of free men and free women. In the same way we cannot accept Italian efforts to return to the canons of obvious infringements: here the results are before everyone's eyes. Within this bill we find numerous important topics: we range from justice to security and we end up with work, the environment, in short, we find it difficult to look at the nature of this measure. I believe that Europe cannot be just that: we take so many small decisions, but we cannot make a step forward so that our country can contribute to the strengthening of its position in the European Union. The purpose of this draft law is to reduce or even remove cases of regulatory conflict between our legal system and the European one, but in fact the bill today to our attention takes marginal account of the needs of national interest, our citizens and businesses, increasingly in the face of the crisis of our social and economic fabric in distress. We do not tackle the serious emergencies, the continuation of a serious employment crisis, of young people in the balance between despair or condemnation of precariousness. There is not only the great emergency of immigration, of which one cannot but speak for the human aspect, but also for the difficulty of Europe and the European countries to have an effective capacity for reception and integration. Since January of this year there have been more than 100,000 immigrants who have landed on our coasts, a mass exodus of people fleeing from wars and serious economic situations and who we can hardly manage, while Europe is watching. Unfortunately, we have a record on the work of young people who do not study, who do not work and who no longer seek employment. The Commission's data tell us that about 20% of our young people are in this situation, while the European average is 11%. Our country has a level of taxation that has become unbearable for families, businesses and professionals and that should be reviewed as soon as possible. We need a deep reflection on the future of the European project, we need to become protagonists again and show our citizens that the European Union is a resource for development, it needs genuine union and real cooperation. The European Union cannot only be that bureaucratic entity that is able to bind us and hinder us, intervening on local traditions and cultures, even on biotypicalities and customs. An appointment that we could take to play an important propulsive and proactive role will be that of the end of the year when we have to decide on the ratification of the fiscal compact. I believe that the task of a government is to defend the interests of its citizens and national businesses. We must not give up our attitude towards the European Commission; we must go and negotiate, whenever there are infringement procedures that put the interests of our country at stake. Certainly we must fulfil our obligations, and hence the approval of this law, but also constructive criticism of the general situation. Our critical positions are not aimed at having less Europe, but at achieving more Europe, respecting the specificities and prerogatives of the nations, because only more Europe can save Europe itself and the individual states that feel they are saving themselves by using DIY. For these and for many other considerations to be taken, I feel that I am critical and opposed to this measure despite its necessity. Therefore, in accordance with the various souls of the LAG Group, I declare the abstention vote. [[Applause from Senators D'Ambrosio Lettieri and Di Giacomo.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-894.ana.u150	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-894.ana.u151	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-894.ana.u152	BOCCHINO (Misto-SI-SEL). Mr President, just a few days ago the European Commission adopted its decisions on infringement procedures. As far as Italy is concerned, the number of procedures charged to our country has fallen slightly but remains at 64, of which 54 for violation of EU law and 10 for failure to transpose directives. It is noted that the law in question contains only 29 provisions plus the article on financial invariance. As always, environmental matters are the subject of 16 procedures still open and on matters that are not irrelevant: failure to comply with the obligations of information on waste, validation of data and location of sampling points for the assessment of air quality, reduction of the use of plastic bags made of light material, violation of the Habitat Directive for the non-designation of the special areas of conservation and adoption of conservation measures, the obligation to respect the levels of nitrogen dioxide, the exceedance of the limit values of PM10 in Italy, the inevitable treatment of urban waste water, the ILVA of Taranto, landfills and the emergency waste in Campania, and then move to other sectors that see infringements on materials such as the responsible and safe management of spent nuclear fuel and radioactive waste or the protection of animals used for scientific purposes and the annoying xylella. The question is, then, Mr President, what is the logic that prompts the Government to intervene on some fronts, leaving others completely undiscovered. What is the urgent criterion for intervening on some issues, ignoring others. Unfortunately, the feeling is always that we have an improper use of the constraints and obligations that require us to belong to a supranational institution, constraints that become a comfortable discharge of responsibility if the measures taken are unpopular, so that some roads are presented as European obligations and not as political choices of the government. These constraints, however, can be easily ignored when they are aimed at protecting citizens, at trying to impose rules that allow people to live in a healthier and fairer society. This is the case, Mr President, of what happened in some articles of this draft law. For example, Article 4 ignores the European Union's constraint that, in the field of telecommunications and the so-called open Internet, would prevent the internet service provider from imposing the use and even the purchase of a fibre modem on customers who sign subscription plans for access to the Internet. That is why the European Union's obligation to protect consumers and competition between companies wishing to invest in the so-called free modem is clearly ignored in the debate both in the Commission and in this House. As the Italian Left, we had tabled amendments and agendas specifically to legislate to put an end to this unfair practice to the detriment of consumers. Yet, Mr Present, we are also going beyond that: not only are the European Union's constraints sometimes ignored when they are protecting consumers and citizens, but they are also completely distorted, to the extent that, as has happened in this draft law, they are clearly contrary to European legislation. This is the case, for example, with Article 2 and the famous question of copyright. Article 2 gives Agcom, the governmental authority for communications guarantees, the power to grant precautionary measures in the field of copyright protection. Once again, reference is made to a European directive that is said to want to be transposed. On the other hand, we are faced with a classic case of European constraint which in itself would also be fair, because we remember that Directive 2004/48 - the one that is said to be transposed into Article 2 - requires Member States to ensure that the competent judicial authorities are responsible for taking such protective measures against persons accused of violating copyright. So, here we are, on a matter that Europe itself tells us that it must rightly be put into the hands of the judicial authority, this Government, with an article once again of dubious legality, confers powers on Agcom, the authority for guarantees in communications that - let us remember - has four members elected by Parliament but a President appointed by the President of the Council, in agreement with the Minister for Economic Development, according to the Maccanic law. An authoritative part of the doctrine qualifies Agcom - think, colleagues - as a semi-independent authority. In fact, an independent administrative authority is such if it is neither hierarchically nor politically subordinate to the Ministries, and that is not the case with Agcom. Therefore, we are giving - take good care, ladies and gentlemen, Mr President - precautionary powers proper to the judiciary to a semi-independent authority, therefore in the hands of the Government, which will therefore have the power to censor the Internet if it detects, the agency, that a violation of copyright may have occurred. Mr President, this article really sounds undemocratic to me; then, of course, to posterity the harsh sentence. This is also the case, as we have just seen, precisely in my speech on Article 24 of the data retention measure. Once again, European constraints that are often said to want to accept in our legislation, proposed as an excuse, are distorted and used to the detriment of freedom and democracy. We have already spoken in this field by voting on an article that provides for the increase of data retention to six years when, at this time the privacy code provides instead that the retention period of phone calls is two years and that of phone calls not only answered thirty days - think - while Internet traffic only one year. That is why the government, with a genuine illiberal coup d'état, indiscriminately increases this period to six years, even violating the European directive that is being transposed because the directive itself talks about measures to combat terrorism and the application of sanctions to combat the phenomenon of foreign fighters while the government increases this data retention and gives the opportunity to put hand to this indiscriminate filing of users also for a whole other series of crimes that do not have to do with international terrorism. So, Mr President, how can it be that, when it comes to compliance with the rules on waste, air and water pollution, water treatment, agriculture, milk quotas, unfair commercial practices between businesses and consumers (as we have seen), reception conditions for asylum seekers and all those other fundamentals and aspects systematically violated by our legislation (as we are reminded of the 64 infringement procedures still open), Parliament and the Government respond with a shrug of shoulders and goodbye to next year, if not even with a twisting of the constraints themselves, and instead, when it comes to questioning constraints on the economic systems of citizens, do their hands suddenly become linked by Europe? We shall see this because, by the end of the year, national parliaments should discuss and decide the fate of the fiscal compact. Let us stop as long as we are in time and instead impose on Europe measures that are fairer and more comprehensive and not vexatory to the freedom of citizens, such as a public investment plan for medium-small and green interventions, the freezing of free trade agreements, such as CETA and TTIP, also in clear violation of consumer rights, the introduction of tobin tax and web tax. Above all, however, the institutions should, without delay and justification, respect European legislation when it is addressed to citizens, Italians, Europeans or anywhere in the world. That is why, Mr President, we Italian Left members of the Mixed Group will abstain from voting on this bill. [[Applause from the Misso-SI-SEL Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-894.ana.u153	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-894.ana.u154	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-894.ana.u155	Montevecchi (M5S). Mr President, we too would like to stigmatize what is happening in the House of Deputies with the examination and approval of the electoral law. We do not want to stigmatize it because we are excluded from the majority (for us this is an honour), but because we believe that citizens are being excluded from the elections. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] , presenting a law that takes away their ability to choose and not to see their vote dispersed. That is why we feel that we are stigmatizing this blow to democracy. That said, I will return to the furrow of European law 2017. It is a law which has been drawn up in a manifest way to remedy open infringement procedures. Already some colleagues before me have remembered that, although in slight decline, 65 procedures are still in charge of our country, of which 54 for violation of EU law and 10 for failure to transpose directives. And that says a lot about our country. Look, among the latest open infringement procedures is No. 2017/2090, which concerns the compatibility of Legislative Decree No. 56 of 19 April 2017, the procurement corrective; and we are going into infringement. Another open infringement procedure is the one on the certification of electronic collection systems, No 2017/4069. There is also the directive on compliance with Directive 2011/60/Euratom, which establishes a Community framework for responsible and safe management of spent nuclear fuel and radioactive waste. Evidently, we can't do this. We cannot do this, contrary to what Undersecretary Gozi said today, which said that we were good because we cut European litigation in half. It seems to me that there is nothing to be proud of, because in reality, as we have seen, the dispute is still full-bodied. Why is that? This is certainly because in Italy the phenomenon of gold plating occurs, that is an overregulation that leads to infringement procedures for incorrect transposition. A bulimia legislation that is leading to the adoption of measures on measures losing sight of the common good. And when it is necessary to adapt to the regulations, there is no longer the ban on the skein, with the results I have just said, for example on the corrective of the contracts 2017. Or because we implement the directives with an eye to the European Union and an eye which, on the other hand, looks entirely at Italian interests. One case is that of SIAE, whose monopoly is hard to die. The 5 Star Movement has denounced this anomalous situation since 2014, presenting amendments and agendas within various measures, including European law voted months ago. Finally, months ago, the government decided to approve an agenda which commits it, in the forthcoming budget law, to remedy once and for all this scandalous situation. We await them at the entrance of the budget law. It also happens, however, that, between one infringement procedure and the other, with an amendment tabled by the Democratic Party in the Chamber in the House and voted, the powers of Agcom in the field of online monitoring and copyright are extended. Now, since 2007 this guarantee body has been able to obscure the websites observed for alleged violations of copyright and has the possibility to obscure them as a precautionary measure, waiting for it to decide whether or not this violation has actually been or not is the body in charge of law, i.e. the judiciary. With this amendment, however, Agcom will also have the right to take definitive measures. So there is a confusion here between the prerogatives of a judicial authority and the prerogatives of a guarantee body; this seems to me to be very serious by a Parliament and a majority political force. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] Moreover, to increase the dose again, what will happen? Be careful: for whom would you like, who will be able to complain, possibly, against the decisions made by Agcom? To Agcom herself! And who will decide how this complaint will be dealt with? The Agcom itself! Because you are capable of doing these things! [[Applause from the M5S Group]] Not only the shameful electoral laws, but also these kinds of things: you go so far! This would not be the only problem because in this case it is also a question of removing, if necessary, the possibility for the person concerned to defend himself. These reasons are added to other reasons that we have seen during the examination of this law, such as, for example, this further extension of the timing of the retention of personal data; and again because, for example, you did not want to approve an amendment of ours based on the European principle of precautionary measures in the field of the environment and public health. You did not want to approve an amendment tabled by the 5 Star Movement which drew attention to the use of petroleum coke, the so-called pet coke, and its possible harmfulness; it is possible, because there are studies in progress and we do not yet know whether it is harmful or not. It could be harmful to environmental health and, therefore, also to people's health, but you didn't want to listen to us about it either. For all these reasons, the 5 Star Movement will vote to abstain on European law. And who knows that European law is not an opportunity to demonstrate how well we have done to vote no to the constitutional referendum and to keep this branch of Parliament alive. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-894.ana.u156	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-894.ana.u157	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-894.ana.u158	FLORIS (FI-PdL XVII). Mr President, Mr Secretary-General, Ministers present, it is with pleasure that I make the explanation of vote on European law. Today the pact that existed between the House and the Senate has been broken, on the basis of which the competence of European law in this case would have been of the House, since the law of European delegation was hesitated long ago by the Senate. There was a tacit agreement that provided for analysis in one branch of Parliament and the hesitation of the same measure by the other branch without particular analysis. Something different happened this year. It has happened that, perhaps because of two misunderstandings between the Senate and the Undersecretary or in any case between Parliament and Government, two amendments that could be transformed into agendas, without any change in the spirit of the law, have been voted and produced the outcome that we all know. This means that the measure, instead of being finally approved, must return to the House for a further parliamentary passage. This will probably mean that we will have to pay further fines for infringement of the European Union, and we will not have a particularly modified law in its content, if not for two not important, but nevertheless important, amendments: one on labelling, which remains on the individual product rather than on packaging, and the other on the advertising of data, by the authorities in the basin. But this is an incidental fact. What matters most is what has happened from the political point of view, Mr Undersecretary, because a force that supports you and has always supported you to this day declares that it will abstain in the final vote on the bill. Obviously, it is not the sharing of our amendments that has led to this attitude the strength I am talking about, but it is certainly an important fact that happens in the other branch of Parliament, I am referring to the electoral law. Everyone follows his own motivations in his own voting behavior. We would have liked to have voted in favour of this law, and perhaps we would have done so, apart from a political vote linked to the issue of electoral law, if there had been any reference to the great problem of migrants and to the resources that the State is committed to saving face, as Juncker says, to Europe, solving the problem of migrants with its own resources. We would have liked there to be something within this law about the Bolkenstein directive. We would have liked even more that there was something within the law that concerned the debts of the public administration to the 20,000 private companies that are in great suffering and also at risk of bankruptcy. We would have liked this to have been included in the draft law, but our proposals have not been accepted in the relevant Commission or in this House. For this reason, the bill in our examination deserves a vote of abstention from us: it is a kind abstention, because it would deserve almost a vote against, if it were not to be harmed. [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-894.ana.u159	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-894.ana.u160	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-894.ana.u161	COCIANCICH (PD). Mr President, I would like to begin by thanking the rapporteur, Mrs Ginetti, the President of the 14th Chiti Commission and the Government, for the measure, which came to this House after a very quiet and quiet debate, without particular ripples in the Commission, after having been approved by many parliamentary groups also in the Chamber of Deputies. It is therefore a little surprising that today we see all this agitation around some rules that had not raised any doubts at the time when there was the possibility of deepening on the subject, in their own seats. However, it is right that there should also be a full debate in this House and it is part of the game of democracy and parliamentary debate to take an opportunity to deepen. Of course, it remains the suspicion that some differentiations that have manifested themselves today have little to do with the merit of the provision, but concern other events, which are taking place in other places. Mr President, I would like to remind you that Europe is a fragile ecosystem, a reality that we must take care of and feel responsible all together. We cannot believe that this is an irreversible reality. As has been mentioned in the speech of some of my previous colleagues, we see in these hours how the European Union suffers from moments of extreme tension within itself. While this debate is taking place, we hear the echo of what is happening in Catalonia and we cannot but follow it with great concern because Catalonia and Spain are close to us. It seems unfair to accuse Europe of what is happening there, because Europe does not have direct competence in the internal affairs of individual countries; Europe represents a principle of democracy, pluralism, respect for differences and also respect for the decisions of national and regional parliaments. Of course, our European spirit leads us to cheer for those who want to build the European Union today and not for those who want to destroy it, for those who want to strengthen it and not for those who want to make it more fragile. I believe that in these days we have faced attitudes, at times, of irresponsibility of those who have not clearly perceived what the benefit Europe has brought to our continent over all these years and play a little with fire. A Europe is built with small steps, slowly, with consistent behavior with respect to the intentions that are declared in voice and that are sometimes not followed in the choices and also in the votes. Today's vote on European law, a complex, composite law, containing many different arguments, is one of those steps aimed at building Europe's unity and preserving this fragile social ecosystem, for which we are all responsible. I would like to say that, from this point of view, Italy has made great progress, thanks to the governments Renzi and Gentiloni Silveri, reducing by half the infringement procedures, from 121 to 64, reducing the number of frauds in the European budget, which have been reduced by 60%, and reducing the number of procedures for State aid, from 22 to 4. There is still a certain nucleus of infringements, which are still not totally assaulted, but I also want to say that it is not necessarily a negative fact that there are infringement procedures, because it is not that every time Europe asks us to amend our legislation we must immediately rush and, when we snap our fingers, rush to do so. We, in some cases, do well to resist and maintain an attitude of contradictory in a dispute to support our reasons and therefore it is right that there are also procedures that hang, because this is the demonstration of our ability to assert the good right, the political choices, the legislative choices and the administrative choices of our country. Of course, this kind of attitude must be pursued with foresight and attention. I am convinced that Italy has improved and is today a better country thanks to European policies and also thanks to the contribution of shared choices with other countries, which have led to make our country more modern and efficient. We must also realise that there are an important number of infringement procedures linked not to legislative choices but to attitudes of the public administration at the peripheral level. From this point of view, I believe that the work that has been done, also thanks to the important work of President Chiti, is important for a fruitful dialogue with regional parliamentary assemblies, because it is necessary for our whole country to contribute to the reduction of infringement procedures, in a process of Europeanization. There are many regional regulations that are the basis of these infringement procedures and it is necessary that there is also an involvement of the Regions and other local administrations on the acts and steps to be taken to reduce the litigation and put our country in step with the European Union. I would like to start by concluding my speech, Mr President, by recalling that today we are talking about a measure which concerns the pathological aspect, that is, Europe from the point of view of infringements, but we must increasingly be aware that our role within the European Union will be strong not only when we manage to reduce the number of infringements, which will certainly increase our credibility in itself, but when we are able to carry forward the voice of Italy, to make it heard and to make it weigh the Italian vision in the European debate. Today we see a reconfiguration of the relationship of strength at European level, we see how France, with a very enterprising and dynamic President, elected with 23% of the votes in the first election round and then, thanks to the ballot, with a much higher percentage, succeeds in having a leadership role within the European Union. The latest issue of "The Economist" provocatively puts Macron in the spotlight and Angela Merkel in the background. We are bound by the decisions taken by our Constitutional Court, which in its supreme wisdom has decided that the ballot is not made for Italians, but it is regrettable to see that other countries, with this same rule that is denied to us, have instead today the opportunity to speak with a strong and authoritative voice. It means that we will choose another, more plural path - the electoral law that is under discussion today leads to a system linked to proportional rather than to the majority - but I believe that it will still be necessary to have a strong cohesion and a strong capacity of community of intent. It is regrettable that today differentiations that are made on European law find their motivation in totally heterogeneous factors, as has been said just now, which do not concern European law at all, because this does not help Italy to move forward with its head up, it does not help to increase our credibility. Those who do not agree with the electoral law may try to counter the electoral law, rather than counter European law, but perhaps this is a naive attitude on my part. I believe that we should continue the path we have taken in recent years and I hope that the House will be able to adopt quickly the amendments we have made to the bill today and above all we can avoid what is the worst risk for me, namely that we lose the funding that had been planned for Sardinia, in particular for the Sulcis region, which had to be allocated by the end of the year, or the loss of the entire funding. If today's delay were to lead to the loss of this European funding for the Sardinians, it would be a disaster not only for the Italian credibility and for the progress of our journey in Europe, but also a serious loss for our citizens, who I do not think deserve it. I therefore hope that our colleagues in the House will be able to proceed quickly. Having said that, I can only conclude my speech by declaring the Democratic Party's vote in favour of this bill. [[Applause from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-894.ana.u162	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-894.ana.u163	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-894.ana.u164	CASTALDI (M5S). Mr President, in order to hold a regular vote, we ask that the cards be removed from the seats of the absent senators. There has been a strange death of Senators of Forza Italia, who, perhaps to help the psychics of the PD, have left the Chamber.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-894.ana.u165	Senator Castaldi, you ask for the checks, then the evaluations can be made at another time. I'm gonna ask the secretary senators to check it out.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-894.ana.u166	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-894.ana.u167	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-894.ana.u168	MARTELLI (M5S). We call for the vote to be taken by simultaneous ballot by electronic means.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-894.ana.u169	I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of the bill as a whole in the amended text. (The vote was followed). I'll give the secretary senators a chance to return to their seats to vote. Senator Bilardi, go in your place, please, if everyone was sitting in their own place, it would be better. There's Senator Quagliariello's card, but the senator is absent, remove that card. The Senate approves. (see Annex B).
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-894.ana.u170	The motions, questions and questions received by the Presidency will be published in Annex B to today's report.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-894.ana.u171	The Senate will meet again tomorrow, Wednesday 11 October, in two public sessions, the first at 9.30 a.m. and the second at 16.30, with the following agenda: (See agenda) The sitting was closed at 7.19 p.m.
