ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-742.ana.u1	The sitting is open (9:36 a.m.). The Minutes shall be read. Mr Amati, secretary, read the Minutes of the afternoon sitting of 12 January. PRESIDENT. - The debate is Since there were no comments, the Minutes were approved.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-742.ana.u2	The list of senators on leave and absent on assignment received from the Senate, as well as further communications to the Assembly, will be published in Annex B to today's Minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-742.ana.u3	I would warn you that qualified votes can be taken in the course of today's sitting by electronic means. Therefore, from this moment the period of 20 minutes from the notice provided for in Article 119, paragraph 1, of the Regulation (9:39 hours) begins.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-742.ana.u4	Colleagues, I wish the new President of the European Parliament Tajani every success. [[Applause]] President. - I call the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats. We wish him good work and we are sure that we can have him with us during the celebrations of the 60th anniversary of the Treaties of Rome.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-742.ana.u5	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-742.ana.u6	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-742.ana.u7	Montevecchi (M5S). Mr President, first of all, thank you for giving me the floor. I would like to speak briefly to ask you to urge the Government and Minister Padoan to come to the Senate for information, because today we learn that the letter from the European Union has arrived and contains the requests that I had made yesterday on the basis of press reports. Since our request for an information in Padoan was rejected yesterday, I ask you kindly and warmly to urge the Government to send the Minister to report on this issue, which we consider urgent, important and serious.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-742.ana.u8	The next item is the report by the Minister for Justice on the administration of justice. After the Minister's speech, the debate will take place, the timing of which has been decided by the Conference of Presidents of the Groups. I call the Minister for Justice, Mr Orlando.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-742.ana.u9	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, you will forgive me if this report does not address all areas of the functioning of jurisdiction. I have deposited statistics to the Presidency which provide a framework for the functioning of the justice service. But here I want to point out what I consider to be the main critical points of the system. How we are dealing with them and with what results. The most important is the strength with which globalisation impacts national systems. There is an impressive gap between the extent of these phenomena and the instruments we have available to measure ourselves with them. At least just as great is the gap between these problems and the awareness that there is in public opinion and discussion in the country. We continue to repeat skirmishes and shake stereotypes of other seasons. The risk is that we stay and guard a dumpster that's emptying out. More and more, at Community and international level, intergovernmental agreements and decision-making mechanisms based on the sharing of powers are governed, from which they end up depending on the same characteristics of domestic law. Here, in my opinion, the credibility of all national jurisdictions is being played. International profiles of civil litigation are growing, which increasingly tries to escape the links of public-state jurisdiction, and cross-border crime is growing, in areas such as terrorism, drug trafficking and arms trafficking, trafficking in human beings, smuggling of migrants, cybercrime and counterfeiting. The answer to these phenomena can no longer be only national. For this reason, we have strongly supported, in recent months, the plan to set up a European Public Prosecutor with a high level of independence and efficiency, which could, in future, also have competence in the field of terrorism and organised crime. To date, the short-sighted concerns of states that do not give up the prerogatives of national systems have prevailed. We have witnessed a progressive emptying of means and ends of the project. We have therefore not supported the text proposed by the Slovak Presidency, although we remain convinced that the European Public Prosecutor has very high potential. The strengthening of judicial cooperation is, however, the priority. European legislation already provides for important instruments, first of all the European arrest warrant, which has now become the daily practice of many states. Other fundamental instruments had not yet been incorporated into our order. During the last year the Government finally filled this gap, receiving fundamental framework decisions, such as the one on the joint investigation teams, the one on the blocking and seizure of assets, or the one on the mutual recognition of the decisions pronounced in the absence of the interested party. Some of them date back to 15 years ago. In the context of the negotiations on the new anti-terrorism directive, we supported the need to strengthen the exchange of information between Member States, with Eurojust and Europol. Despite the opposition of many EU states, our line has found an important recognition in the European Parliament and has been transposed into the final text of the directive which will shortly be adopted. 2016 also marked the strengthening of bilateral cooperation with non-EU countries in strategic areas to combat terrorism, organised crime, illegal trafficking in human beings and corruption. The number of negotiations concluded by the Ministry during the last three years is more than twice the previous three years, with a significant extension of the cooperation area. Still in the area of international cooperation, the decrees implementing the delegation for the reform of Book XI of the Code of Criminal Procedure and for the implementation of the European order of investigation are ready. This will profoundly change the forms of judicial cooperation, ensuring speed, simplicity and efficiency of procedures, in a strengthened framework of guarantees. With regard to the fight against Islamist radicalisation, we are promoting European programmes aimed at improving knowledge of recruitment channels in terrorist networks. There is a new focus, in this sense, on the use of the network, which is an extraordinary vehicle of knowledge and information, but for this very reason it must grow in the profiles of responsibility, by the individuals who operate on it. Therefore, pending tangible but unfortunately far from obvious progress in strengthening the supranational network of jurisdiction and European jurisdiction, we can say that we have used all the instruments available, both legislative and political, to develop judicial cooperation. No one can blame Italy for having escaped the request for collaboration in the prosecution of crimes by other countries, even when this happened unilaterally. It is right to ask whether the Italian legal system is able to withstand the impact of such profound transformations of the global arena, while inevitably paying - as has been said - the increasingly narrow limits of the national dimension. The constitutional structure continues to offer important protection of fundamental rights. Contrary to external suggestions, which often emerge in our home, our country is appreciated for the balance achieved between the needs of security and defence of constitutional guarantees, where other states have adopted strategies that have translated into an abrupt limitation of citizens' rights. The same is said for the objective of maintaining and guaranteeing the position of autonomy and independence of the judiciary, the mandatory prosecution, the legislative forecasts on the appeal, which still offer important legal protection to citizens' rights. This robust legal and institutional framework is now an embankment against dangerous populist drifts that undermine the levels of legal civilization touched by our country. Doing justice can never mean seeking consent. [[Applause from the PD, AP (NCD-CpI) and Aut (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT) and PSI-MAIE Groups]] If anything, it is to be asked whether the plurality of jurisdictions still has any meaning or whether it is not necessary at least to undertake a coordination path between them even with an unchanged Constitution, starting from a harmonization of the disciplinary system. Such a system of guarantees needs adequate organisational support and a constant search for a balance between demand and the supply of justice. The relationship between citizens and causes continues to be high in Italy. In part, it is a general phenomenon, characteristic of societies with advanced capitalism; in part it depends on the same economic crisis, which amplifies the recourse to justice; in part, it is linked to the tradition and public fighting spirit of our country. In the criminal field, there has been a constant expansion of the number of offences provided for by the law, often the result of a purely propaganda and symbolic use of legislative action according to an equation that has been completely unfounded over time, so that more offences would be more secure. In fact, the uncertainty of the framework of the illicits and the consequent irrationality of the system have weakened the repressive capacity and, as has been said, increased the number of proceedings. To this must be added the tendency of many countries, including ours in the past, to deal with social problems with criminal interventions. The figures, however, show the progress of the Italian judicial system, with numbers significantly closer to the European average. A reversal of trend also highlighted in international relations, where Italy is considered very positively because of the wide availability of alternative dispute resolution systems, on which we have invested a lot in recent years, even with significant incentives. In June 2013, civil cases were about 5,200,000. As of June 30, 2016, the total, net of the activity of the judge protect, fell to about 3,800,000. And I expect that, by the end of last year, the results will follow the trend. The incline of civil affairs remains stable at the courts for minors, while all other offices show a decrease of about 5% with the exception of the Court of Cassation, which sees its incline grow in the last year by 3.2 percent. In 2016 there were 196.247 civil mediations (plus 10 percent compared to 2015); but if you consider the total set of ADR (Alternative Dispute Resolution) forms, then the attempts in 2016 were about 366,000. On the criminal side, the total number of proceedings pending at the judicial offices decreased by 7% in 2016 to 3,29,284 cases. We have taken action to reduce the use of criminal law. We have reviewed the criminal indictments in accordance with effective criteria of offense, introducing the cause of non-perpetuality due to particular tenuity of the fact. We've been talking about this for a long time, we've done it, among pretentious polemics and agitators of unfounded fears. [[Applause from the PD and AP groups (Ncd-CpI)]] We have decriminalised a number of criminal cases, which are now lacking in appreciable criminal disvalue. On the other hand, other cases have been debilitated against criminal offences, punished with civil financial penalties, giving effect to sanctions. An important measure concerned the ritual of Cassation, weighed down by a large backward. The Commission's data on the evaluation of the efficiency of justice of the Council of Europe (CEPEJ) show that, while the appeal rate is aligned with the European average, this is not the case before the Supreme Court, burdened every year by about 30,000 new proceedings, for this reason more models of the cassation process were needed. The reform just launched offers more agile tools to reduce the size of pending judgments and to save the vital role of nomophilachia of the Court. It is not enough, however, to write new rules. There needs to be a sustained effort on the side of the offer of justice, aimed at strengthening the organisation. On the shortcomings of administrative staff, on the findings of the magistrates, on the need to raise the level of technological infrastructure, on the safety of the places where justice is administered, I can say that the answers given in these years have been far more extensive and more effective than has been done in the past decades. Only one fact: the additional resources recovered in recent years are more than 1.7 billion, destined to strengthen structural interventions for the organization of offices. New resources are also contained in the 2017 Budget Act. With regard to resources and greater efficiency, I would like to stress that, for the first time in years, the so-called Pinto debt falls by almost EUR 100 million at 31 July 2016. On the other hand, on the other hand, of the operating expenses of the judicial offices, a completely prudential estimate reveals a reduction of the costs of the services, as a result of the passage of such expenses from the municipalities to the Ministry, of about a third. The telematic civil process was a fundamental step in the improvement of the justice system as a whole: it is now in full swing and constitutes an excellence of our country, as is also recognised at international level. The drive for wider digitisation continues. The Information System of Criminal Knowledge (SICP) has started, a prerequisite necessary to continue in the telematic criminal process. An effort has been made for the security of computer systems, today at the heart of national and international debate. Since 2014, one of my main commitments has been to contain the holidays of the staff of the administrative staff. A new recruitment policy has led to the placing of resources to give entry, with various procedures, to 4,000 new units; 1,100 instead are the units entering the ranks of the judiciary. After years of oblivion, we have launched a new policy of recruitment, retraining and exploitation of staff, although in a situation of limited availability of resources. We have launched the reform of the honorary judiciary, which has been delayed for too long, which is the first organic intervention in this area, with the creation of a single statute. It is also worth highlighting the commitment to provide the judicial offices with adequate support, including through the work of trainees. They entered the trial offices in 1,150 this year and we decided to extend them for next year. To this number another 3,000 trainees under Article 73 must be added. We have also signed three protocols of understanding with Lazio, Emilia-Romagna and Veneto for the temporary assignment of the staff of the Regions to the judicial offices of the respective districts; other protocols are being defined with the other Regions and will cover more than 200 employees as a whole. Finally, in this context, I would like to mention the revision of the organic plants of the offices of first degree, which completes the path begun with the revision of the judicial geography. We have passed a photograph of the country that dates back to fifty years ago: to another Italy from a civil, social, demographic point of view and therefore also with respect to criminal phenomena and litigation. Such an articulated system lives not only from resources, but also from delicate balances, the result of complex relations between different subjects whose task is to guarantee the autonomy of the system, the harmony and the strict application of the principle of legality. Our action has been aimed at ensuring that controllers are subject to other controllers only in compliance with the law, in full guarantee of the separation of powers. This vigilance must be all the more stringent, timely and effective in that it concerns powers that can have a very strong, and sometimes even irreparable, impact on the lives of citizens. These are issues on which the discussion and reflection started with the bodies of self-government of the judiciary must continue. As far as inspection work is concerned, it has been directed much less towards checks of irregularities of a formal nature than to injuries to the rights of persons or to conduct that cast discredit on the judiciary or, finally, violate the rules of operation of the offices. The Ministry has also equipped itself with a modern statistical system that, in addition to allowing to monitor in detail the trend of the slopes, allows to base the assessments on the measurement of the results and performance of the offices. I hope that the Supreme Council of the judiciary, in its autonomy, will increasingly rely on such criteria in identifying the top figures of the offices, an identification which must certainly proceed with greater speed. We have also acted, always in the area of transparency, to reform the Agency for Confiscated and Confiscated Goods, with a view to its better organisation, with clearer methods of allocation and a more rigorous management activity. The same concern for transparency and rigour was the basis of the Ministerial Directive on relations between juvenile justice, the private sector and the host communities. The intervention has become necessary to the emergence of unacceptable price disparities for the provision of services for the reception of minors. In the direction of transparency, it is also worth mentioning the launch of a radically innovative sales portal, a single marketplace for the publication and sale of movable and immovable property of all competition procedures pending on national territory. It is a conquest in terms of contrast to lawlessness and corruption, but also the first stage of a broader reform project that aims to unlock a huge mass of creditors, estimated at about 200 billion euros. The next stage will take place by June, with the establishment of the current credit register with the collaboration of Banca d'Italia and the Ministry of Economy and Finance. Thanks to this new instrument in the market, real-time knowledge of the actual conditions for the feasibility of company credits will be available. It will thus be possible to move on to the last stage, which aims to assign to the credits admitted to the allotment a monetary value immediately expendable in all the competitive procedures, introducing wealth where today the lengths of the liquidation procedures impoverish the productive tissue, as well as producing unacceptable areas of opacity. Parliament is currently engaged with the draft law delegation on the crisis of enterprise, which contains important measures for simplifying and efficiency of competition procedures and a change of pace, including cultural, in the management of business crises. It is a long-awaited intervention, which can have a positive impact on the country's competitiveness. To approve this law, as well as that on the civil process (which is in this branch of Parliament), would mean to give systematicity to the reformist intervention that so far has been largely realized, using administrative instruments and regulatory interventions diffused. In criminal matters, the Senate is examining the draft law of government initiative which envisages a wide-ranging reformist intervention, inspired by intentions of criminal policy directed not exclusively at deflagrating results. This is an important measure, and I have often called for it to be approved, and I think it is a mistake not to approve it. On the sensitive issue of limitation, which has provoked the most lively discussions, I believe that in this House too, there has been a balance between the need to ensure that jurisdiction is given sufficient time to carry out criminal investigation activities and that of ensuring the reasonable duration of the trial, while retaining its function as a stimulus to the definition of criminal proceedings in not too extensive times. This is an incisive intervention, particularly appreciated by the Group of States against the Corruption of the Council of Europe (GRECO), which called for its rapid approval, noting, however, the progress made by Italy with the new legislation on the subject and, in particular, with the interventions on fake in the budget and self-recycling. On another point, I would like to address briefly, that is, the issue of interceptions of no criminal importance. I very much appreciated the circulars branched out by some prosecutors, who invite for greater supervision. I think they're heading in the right direction. I also note - and I hope I am not denied by the facts - that the dissemination of this information has been reduced quantitatively, but here the law of large numbers does not apply to those affected by improper dissemination. However, I do not believe that these circulars are sufficient because the protection of an individual citizen cannot be attributed to chance, that is to say to the fact that the prosecutor has issued or not issued a circular in the territory that concerns that citizen. I therefore believe that regulatory action is necessary, according to the lines of the delegation that Parliament is called upon to approve in the context of criminal reform. The ever closer intersections between organised crime and financial circuits have prompted us to propose a new initiative, aimed at rethinking the instruments for an effective contrast of mafias, much changed compared to just a few years ago, especially on the side of illegal accumulations of wealth, but also, on the other hand, to relaunch the public and civil response to mafia phenomena. I have decided, in fact, to start the general states of the fight against organized crime, with the aim of re-founding the very reasons for a commitment to which are linked not only the fate of some Regions, but of the whole country. We need new cognitive surveys, new theoretical acquisitions; we need to formulate new proposals but also to urge new energies, subtracting us from stereotypes that often continue to weigh in the debate on this issue. The general states will have to serve all of this. The solution of the prison emergency, following the Torreggiani judgment, constituted one of the priorities of my mandate. As of December 31, 2016, the prison population consists of 54,653 units, still exceeding the overall regulatory capacity of the penitentiary institutions, however increased in these same years by about 4,000 units. The prison population has decreased by over 10,000 in three years. Important is the new and more mature balance of the relationship between prison presences and external criminal execution, now almost equal. Reeducation and social reintegration are mainly linked to the strengthening of alternative measures to prison. The results are not yet entirely satisfactory, but they will not be if we fail to change the overall approach to the prison system. In order to promote this path, the positive experience undertaken with the general states of criminal execution has constituted a valuable basis for elaboration. The extension of the conditions for access to alternative measures, the introduction of the institute of testing for adults and the growth of alternative sanctions to prison, such as that of public service work, the definitive overcoming of psychiatric judicial hospitals require administrative action aimed at building a broad and effective system of probation, which puts Italy on the same footing as all the major European countries that find in this area the main instrument of criminal execution. The results presented so far are the result of a very wide availability and collaboration. I want, therefore, to thank all those involved in the justice system: the judiciary, the lawyering, which I believe can welcome with satisfaction the completion of the process of implementation of the forensic reform, the prison police force, which I particularly thank for the dedication and professionalism, all the staff employed in the justice service and, in particular, the administrative staff who in recent years have borne the weight of the staff gaps and the increase in the workloads, Parliament and the Commissions, who have done a very profitable job on many subjects. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, in recent years we have been acting to get out of real emergencies, such as the prison and the civil retreat; we have had an impact on the organisation of justice; we have sought to promote a more relaxed climate. Today I feel I can claim the significant progress made on the side of some fundamental rights and can represent with conviction the values for which we have worked. The value of effective equality in secularity is inspired by the law on civil unions, whose implementation path has ended. We now have a law that, for our country, represents a turning point in civilization. The law on the care of persons with serious disabilities without family support is based on the value of protecting the weak. The same law finally introduces for the first time in our system a general system of compensation for victims of violent intentional crimes. This too is an important sign of civilization, as is the law that strikes the odious phenomenon of the caporalate, approved last year, that wounds the dignity and value of the person who works. It is also our duty to safeguard fundamental guarantees when it comes to reception and the right to asylum. The draft law before the Government first promotes the specialization of the court as a decisive element for the acceleration of proceedings and intervenes in the system of second-degree appeals, taking advantage of the most effective European experience. I want to make it clear that the solution proposed is in line with the international model of fair trial and is fully in line with the principles expressed by the European Court of Human Rights. The new legislation, I believe, may be an opportunity to overcome the crime of illegal immigration for reasons which I have already had occasion to recall on several occasions. Finally, in view of the next Memorial Day, I would like to recall Law 115 of 2016 on crimes against humanity, which also contains the crime of negationism. I believe that the commitment must continue with the approval of the torture crime, which is currently being discussed in this area of Parliament. When we talk about Europe, when we talk about it as a community of life - to use the words of President Mattarella, to whom I address my respectful greeting - we talk about these values, and also - let us not forget - the tragic history that led to their affirmation. Europe means law, together means building garrisons to defend the centrality of the person and recognition of fundamental individual and social needs and needs. When I come to the conclusion, I want to ensure that I will take full account of the assessments of every political force. I expect a concrete competition from all sides on all the problems we face. I believe that most of the achievements of the past years, as well as those which I hope for the future, are due to the overcoming of an abstract and precontroversial logic. I do not indulge in optimism, but not even on the contrary, giving up to outline possible paths. But the reform measures work if their reasons take root in the social, civil and cultural habitat of the country, which must be defended not only from the attacks on security and freedom, but also from the too harsh disparities that risk breaking it. One of the greatest contemporary scholars of law and state, Ronald Dworkin, wrote: "Equal respect is the sovereign virtue of the political community: if it is lacking, the government is only tyranny; and when the wealth of a nation is distributed in a strongly unequal way, as is currently the wealth of nations even very prosperous, then its equal respect appears suspicious." That is: if we want to recognize to our fellow citizens, in the forms of law and in the exercise of jurisdiction, the equal respect that is due to them, we must act so that the wealth of the nation is not strongly unequal. If we can do this, and wherever we can do it, there the service of justice will be more efficient, more authoritative and ultimately more just. [[Applause from the PD, AP (Ncd-CpI) and Aut (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT) and PSI-MAIE Groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-742.ana.u10	I declare open the debate on the Minister of Justice's Report. I note that the motions for resolutions will have to be tabled before the end of the debate. He's enlisted to speak Senator Bruni. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-742.ana.u11	Minister, I have listened to your report and I have shared certain parts of it, such as the data provided, which certainly indicate improvements in the justice system as a whole, but - as is often the case - they must then be read and interpreted in the light of a number of other considerations. I would stop not only at the information that can come from the Ministry, but also at the information that comes - for example - from the European Commission which, in April, released the data of the 4th Annual Report on Justice in the 28 countries of the Union. The analysis of such numbers revealed the need, no longer procrastinable, to reform and drastically modernise Italian justice, which, despite some changes (such as those in recent years indicated in the Minister's Report), denote the picture of a justice still inefficient and unindependent. Reading the latest data provided by the European Commission confirms that it still takes about five hundred days to resolve an administrative trade dispute at first instance. The numbers are certainly better than those of 2013 and 2012, but they are negative when compared to those of 2010. Italy is still in third place, before Malta and Cyprus, in this sense, and compared to other countries it has few magistrates, little more than 10 per cent thousand inhabitants, but it has a large number of lawyers, about 246,000, one lawyer every 243 inhabitants. Think of what this means and how many lawyers there are in a single village of a few thousand inhabitants. With regard to the perceived independence of the judiciary - and this is an important fact, which is unfortunately a constant one in recent years - the same report of the European Union shows that about 60% of the respondents perceive and therefore consider the independence of judges to be literally rather unsatisfactory or very unsatisfactory. The same perception is detectable among enterprises. From this point of view, only Bulgaria and Slovakia do worse. Among the 28 countries of the Union the most independent justice is considered that of Denmark and Finland; in the middle there are countries like France and Belgium, but certainly not Italy. The problem of the independence of the judiciary, in Italy, according to the answers considered in that report, arises from interference or pressure from Government and politicians put together. On the other hand, we also perceive these figures: how can they be denied if the Supreme Council of the judiciary elects representatives on the basis of political currents? Moreover, this way of making stride with the ratio provided for in Article 104 of the Constitution, which instead had provided for two different visits to the Supreme Council of the judiciary for lay members and members to whom the Head of State President of that body is attached. This is where the so-called "correntocracy" of the Supreme Council of the judiciary came into being, which should be resolved - I would also say arginated - in different ways of election because this means that we can no longer go on. A final comment on the report I mentioned concerns the issue of interceptions of judicial investigations which also touched on the Minister. Well, even now, together with Cyprus, we are the only country in the European Union that has not yet formally framed the relationship between the courts and the press, as everyone wants, because that is the problem. I quote quickly a few points in my speech concerning the prison system. You, Minister, have given, in addition to today's speech, a shared interview on this morning's Unit. However, I say to you that, with regard to overcrowding and the Torreggiani judgment, the data are certainly positive and comforting, but there is a reduction in the staff of the prison police, with which we will have to deal in the coming months with the introduction into the prisons of all those admitted to the OPG who have been closed. The problem is to combine different needs and functions with reduced organic. As far as the external criminal enforcement office is concerned, I would like to say that even then there is an unsolved motion from the employees who would like to go into technical roles, just as it was for the prison police. A final point, Minister, which is very topical, because it relates to a judgment of last December, which concerns the minimum rates and fair compensation. You, Minister, had also recently, in October, undertaken to draw up a bill on fair compensation and the re-introduction of minimum tariffs. The bill asks him loudly. The House has a draft law on the subject of Mr Chiarelli, the Conservative and Reformist Group. You can't go on like this anymore. I would like to point out to you that a municipality of 12,000 inhabitants has banned legal assistance for all the litigation for 6,000 euros a year: we are talking about benefits that are not compensated even for the minimum expenses and lives, as we used to say. The question of fair compensation must therefore be raised. We used to say: 'Europe tells us'; now Europe has told us what can be done. [[Applause from the CoR Group. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-742.ana.u12	Senator Ginetti is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-742.ana.u13	Mr Minister, the Annual Report on the State of Justice is undoubtedly an important opportunity to take stock of the initiatives taken by the Government and Parliament on a system, that of justice, which is fundamental for the protection of rights and which tells a great deal about the state's state's ability to ensure the concrete protection of fundamental freedoms in an advanced democracy regime: from the time when the processes end and when a judgment becomes final, to the possibility of accessing the same mechanisms for resolving disputes, even alternatives to the judicial process. The broader account, the one related to the thousand days of the Renzi Government, has given the opportunity to highlight the significant progress made with respect to a situation, that of departure, that of 2013, characterized by a positioning of our Country at the bottom of rankings for the evaluation of the efficiency of justice within the European Union between the member countries, for the number of cases pending, for the time of conclusion of the trials and for the state of overcrowding of the prisons. Important interventions to strengthen the organisation of territorial justice services and to fill shortcomings in the various judicial offices: 4,000 new units of administrative staff, retraining courses, more than 1,000 magistrates over the three years, technological renewal also following the completion of the telematization of the process. Many, therefore, are the delays that have been filled this year too. Justice was the sector that most occupied Parliament's work, for more than 35%, to deliver laws that - on the one hand - have extended the sphere of civil rights and - on the other hand - have guaranteed more certain safeguards against particularly hateful crimes. We have also implemented measures with significant side-effects in the criminal field, with the non-penalty for particular reason of the fact and the decriminalisation of minor offences. Of course, other important acts are awaiting approval, such as the reform of the criminal process, the reform of the anti-mafia code, the reform of the civil process and bankruptcy law. Certainly the positive development of the reduction of the number of pending cases, dropped in the civil sector to 3.8 million - as you, Minister, has emphasized - and in the criminal sector to 1,584 million, as well as reduction of the times of conclusion of the rites. Today we are no longer a country under special surveillance by the European Union in transposing directives and framework decisions. We have exceeded more than 60% of the infringement procedures opened against Italy. Above all, we have anticipated the introduction of common rules, such as those in the field of counter-terrorism, whose application this year has allowed us to bring extremists to justice who, through the use of the Internet, carry out proselytism and enlistment activities, but also scafists, traffickers of human beings who profit from the desperation of those fleeing from areas of war and violence. We have also introduced rules on those who exploit labour, including the crime of head of state. Security, therefore, given and guaranteed and not only perceived, because - we repeat - the bond of trust, of trust between the citizen and the institutions of justice is the foundation of cohesion, civic belonging, public order and guarantee of legality. But we must do more, Minister, and I am referring to the area of criminal execution, in which the greatest results have been achieved in recent years, with the overcoming of the unsustainable condition of overcrowding of prisons, to move to a number of 50,000 posts, to a simultaneous decrease in the presence of prisoners awaiting precautionary judgment and with the extension of the number of admitted to alternative measures, more than 40,000. However, draft treatment and training activities for the population in detention are awaiting implementation, because the problem of detention is linked not only to the space to be guaranteed in the cell, but also to the quality of detention, the offer of treatment activities and the different prison circuits to be carried out for a penalty that is actually re-educational. It is a context, the current one, in which the risk of new overcrowding in some large institutions is re-emerged, today waiting to start the delegations contained in the Senate Act 2067, to strengthen the defensive guarantees, in the matter of prescription, interception, of reasonable duration of the trials, as well as to give fulfilment to a penitentiary order addressed with specific rules to minors. It is a world, that of prison, that sees engaged men and women, often under staff and with overtime, from educators to psychologists, to members of the prison police force, who with self-denial and spirit of service dedicate an entire working life within those walls. They too, Minister, are waiting, from the 1990 reform, for that recognition, for that valorization and equalization to the roles and qualifications, including salaries, of the State Police, starting from the role of officials established in 2000, and for the reorganization and realignment promised with the specific forecast of the law of stability of December 2015, paragraph 973 of Article 1. Dignity and honour to those who work, guarantees and effectiveness of the justice service for citizens: these must remain the objectives of our political commitment, aimed at the creation of a single European area of justice and security, including with a European Prosecutor and with an indispensable and reinforced judicial and police cooperation. [[Applause from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-742.ana.u14	I would like to greet the students and students of the Istituto magistrale Statale Vittorio Gassman in Rome, who follow our work. Thanks, guys. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-742.ana.u15	Senator Stefani is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-742.ana.u16	Mr President, we have heard the Minister's report on the situation of the complex system of justice in Italy. Unfortunately, however, we must again, as every year, for years, consider and criticality on the efficiency of the justice model in Italy. We certainly suffer from what Mr Orlando said, namely the impact of phenomena affecting the whole of Europe, if not the whole world, on our system, the effect of the globalisation of crime that goes from terrorism - as was said - to the trafficking of migrants, drugs and weapons, which almost affects our judicial and legal system. You have to see if our system can resist. Up to now we have had and demonstrated certain capacities, but let us always remember that Italy has had and still has two very large phenomena, which have served to arrange and arrange an order system in some ways strong or stronger than other countries: I am talking about the mafia and terrorism of the 70s, which have certainly led Italy to set up internal defense systems. Of course, in any case, Italy's response to cross-border phenomena does not mean that there are no major problems in internal dynamics. And we are still referring - as we did last year and in the previous year - to the Doing Business report, drawn up each year by the World Bank to identify which countries are most profitable to invest in. Unfortunately, in this report Italy loses five positions this year compared to last year and is therefore in the fiftieth place. Basically, we are overtaken by Moldova and Serbia. What does this mean? It means that, due to the inefficiency of the Italian system, especially in the civil field, we lose almost one percent of GDP per year, because foreign companies consider it not beneficial to invest in Italy, due to the difficulty of even carrying out a simple recovery of the credit. If the justice system does not work, we have difficulties in the same companies. As the Minister has confirmed, there are still the arrears that weigh, particularly in the civilian. The Minister says that there is a reduction in the backlog, but we must also consider what the Italian economic situation is: people do not have the money to make a case; indeed, the increase in the expenditure to undertake the causes, with the increase of the unified contribution, certainly involves deflation of the judicial burden, because it is considered not to undertake procedures precisely for the cost of the same. The economic crisis, therefore, does not work in the sense of increasing litigation, but rather decreases it. We know that the fact that there are arrears depends not on the current economic crisis, but on a system which unfortunately has been inefficient for years. The measures that are being taken both for staff and to proceed with instruments that resolve disputes in an alternative way to appeal to the court have certainly had effects. But what we are talking about is a system that has been enchanted over the years and, therefore, the interventions that must be done will necessarily have to be very deep and affect in a not analytical but systematic way. There is also a doubt about the reform of the civil process. Some of the audits that we have had the opportunity to hear in the Commission on justice have found that the fact of affecting the civil rite may not produce the desired effects, i.e. a reduction in litigation. A zero-cost civil justice reform cannot be done, it will not have that effect. The reform of the process will be able to intervene on specific aspects and may be able to improve the system, but unfortunately we do not feel that it is a sure panacea for all evils. The alarming data also concern criminal justice, where we will continue to insist that we will never appreciate the data if we do not eliminate all the measures adopted in this parliamentary term, which we have called empty prisons, but which are all systems that have provided benefits for criminals of which we are not proud. That's exactly the opposite. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group]] With the current system, one has the feeling and negative opinion that some crimes are not punished. If we talk to law enforcement representatives and agents who operate on the ground and carry out arrests and investigations, we learn that drug dealers continue to sell drugs and thieves continue to steal. These subjects, however, must be stopped and to do so a system of justice is necessary in which the penalty is certain and there is no uncertainty about the result, otherwise the feeling - perhaps it is not only such - that the crimes are, in some cases, unpunished. For this reason, we will continue to insist on our demands, because we believe that the inefficiency of Italian civil justice must be tackled with investment - as, among other things, it is being done, but it is still too little - and in the criminal law we must change what you have done in this parliamentary term. That is why we have tabled a motion for a resolution which I hope we will have the opportunity to explain later and we will insist on our initiatives and proposals in this regard. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-742.ana.u17	He's enlisted to speak Senator Falanga. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-742.ana.u18	Minister, you have carried out a report in this House, essentially pointing out points that you believe have been made for the improvement of justice in our country. I have to say to her that we, today and then, are always in the same position as we are in the same position to vote on those measures which we believe we can share and not vote on those which we do not share. Despite the events of recent months, our political position has not changed. She made references, and I'll start from the last. Minister, you have spoken about the situation in prisons and have skilfully indicated the number of current prisoners in Italian prisons, to the extent of more than 54,000. However, it did not indicate - I do not know why - the data relating to receptiveness. He didn't indicate it. He spoke of a reduction of about 10,000 inmates in three years, but he did not tell us today how much the overcrowding of prisoners in our prisons still amounts. Besides, he didn't even tell us what the conditions of the prisoners in our prisons are. He did not remind us of that ignoble law, wanted by his Government, which provides compensation for the damage of 8 euros per day for every day lived by the prisoner in inhumane conditions. Minister, that law certifies our country's inefficiency. If she expects that there may be an inhumane condition of life, and therefore provides compensation, it means that her Government does not exclude that, in the prisons of our country, she lives in inhumane conditions. Moreover, it is thought to compensate for such damage with just EUR 8 per day. The League and Senator Stefani are right when they say that those who commit particularly serious social crimes must be imprisoned. We share, but be careful: I visit Italian prisons and in them I find not only those who rob families or consume crimes against the heritage and the person. A few days ago I was in the prison structure of Poggio Reale in which, faced with a receptiveness of 2,000 prisoners, there are 2,500 of them - therefore, there is still an overcrowding of 500 units - where I found 1,200 prisoners waiting for trial, or in protective custody. I don't know if you're following the TV show, but you must have heard about the broadcast on Rai 3 titled "I'm Innocent," which speaks of an innumerable series of people imprisoned and then acquitted, a traumatic story that marks forever the life of each individual. Minister, your Government has boasted that it has intervened in the cause of non-penalty for the integrity of the matter. Apart from the technical profile, the institute of impunity has always been related to the subjective conditions of the author of the fact and never objective. I mean, one fact can be for a judge to be subtle and another judge not to be subtle. That rule, even if it is technically wrong, entrusts to the magistrate who is carrying out an evaluation of criminal proceedings for one and not for the other. He boasts of the telematic process; but do you, Minister, go to the courts? Talk to the lawyers. Do you know how the telematic process works when you deposit a memory with it? A couple of months ago I had to deal with a magistrate to whom I asked for a decision on an application, who replied that on his portal had not yet arrived. The telematic process can actually be a tool that accelerates the process's time, but resources are needed to achieve it perfectly, because otherwise it becomes just another obstacle. Minister, you don't just have to worry about writing the norm. Its Ministry and its majority must be concerned about implementing the rules that can then be implemented. You said that Europe said that Italy was good at introducing the telematic process. However, let us tell Europe that it does not work because there are no adequate instruments and resources to carry it forward in disputes. You said that the civilian judicial burden has decreased. But this was because we have created more difficulties in accessing justice. I am thinking, for example, of the rule of reform of the civil trial, now before the Commission for Justice, which provides, beyond the institution of succumbence, referred to in Article 93 (the losing party must be ordered to pay the costs of the other party, as well as of its lawyer), when the resistance in the judgment has profiles of bad faith - but then the assessment of the bad faith, Minister, is very difficult because at times it is convinced of its own right - compensation for the further damage to the other party. You understand that the problem is not solved by increasing the costs of justice; in this way you create the terror of the citizen to access justice by such means. You can't talk about a reduction in the legal burden. The reduction took place because she has created a number of obstacles to access to justice for certain citizens with measured economic conditions: congratulations, Minister; I do not think she can boast of this. He then talked about the injury of the person's rights. She neglects to consider that many people see themselves injured. Let me give you a Neapolitan example of my land. A woman committed suicide because the judge to whom she had asked for the non-disclosure of a video that somehow compromised her, after a year and a half she replied saying that it was too late, having already had the video wide spread. And what does our criminal system, our justice system do? He entrusts to this magistrate a responsibility of Government, of a prosecutor of the Republic. As is the case in other countries, she should have taken an inspection action to understand the reasons for that delay. These are the injuries. This is the CSM system. Speak, Minister. That's where I want to see you change the rules and put an end to the current system. I conclude with the civil liability of the criminal judge, another pearl of his government. We bring compensation for the damage from 25 to 50 percent when we ascertain the serious guilt and bad faith of the magistrate. What did we do? We have paid - for example - one million euros of damage to the citizen who receives a measure for gross negligence or bad faith, and then we ask the magistrate for 50% of his annual salary, i.e. 40,000 euros. If a doctor produces a damage of one million euros, he pays one million euros. Mr Minister, I do not want to terrorise the judiciary, which must remain autonomous and independent. However, I only remember that, since I was a boy, I believe that three are the pillars of a democracy of a people: health, school and justice. You govern one of these three pillars, Minister, and you have a great responsibility. I have a deep respect for your person, but believe me: those around you give you suggestions that sometimes lead you to take decisions that see that pillar seriously compromised.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-742.ana.u19	Senator Giovanardi is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-742.ana.u20	Mr President, I acknowledge Mr Orlando's commitment to the affairs of justice, but I must inevitably stress some critical issues, partly because I am urged by the fact that former President Renzi, also in this House, had recalled the law on civil unions as one of the great achievements of this legislature. I must remind you that this law was imposed on Parliament by a vote of confidence and that the President of the Council had said, a week earlier, that it would in any case prevent the submission of amendments, otherwise the law would not have passed into the text in which it passed. I remember asking the President of the Senate, who kindly asked the Government, the text of the State Bill with which the Government, even before this House discussed this law, cleared the stepchild adoption, saying that for the Italian Government it is absolutely legitimate, even under current legislation, that homosex couples adopt children. And I remember Dr Forte's interview the other day, which explained that he was not appointed President of the first section of the Commission, which is deciding against Parliament, because in this House stepchild adoption had been removed from the law on civil unions. Now, instead, the cases are entrusted, despite the general prosecutor's request for custody of the united sections, to the first section pre-constituted ad hoc. Therefore, we have a situation in which we will soon find ourselves, not only with adoptions to homosexual couples without Parliament having ever endorsed this rule, but even can be adopted children purchased abroad, through the infamous practice of the uterus for rent, which in Italy is still a crime. I still thank the President of the Constitutional Court, because the document with which the previous Government has cleared the adoption for homosexual couples sent it to me, while the previous Government has always refused to hand it over to the Senate, and therefore to the senators: I therefore thank the President of the Constitutional Court who, courteously (being the text deposited at the Court), gave me a copy of it. I say that because the system has to work at various levels. When the system works in legality, who is in the minority or opposes certain solutions, it must be acknowledged; but it cannot be so when, through artifices and tricks, we arrive at solutions that repugn 80% of the Italian people. Because either laws are made to solve problems or, as in the case of street murder, they are made to make a propaganda commercial. We said that in the Commission and we said in this House that the rule was totally wrong, that millions of potential murders were being created, practically anyone getting in the car. And the result was the one already foreseen, but foreseen by the Senate when it had approved the amendments that prevented the mother of the family, the boy, the worker from getting his license withdrawn for years and that he could be sentenced to 18 years in prison, even if he went to thirty an hour and had the misfortune that a car accident happened, beyond drugs and alcohol. What was the result? Far from reducing road accidents, however, the cases of escape have increased, since there is the arrest in flagrante also for those who stop to help, with thousands of people ruined, simply for having caused a lesion greater than forty days, perhaps for having caused injuries to one foot by turning back. And these are concrete cases. There are associations that are wondering which legislators have come to mind rules of this kind. And I have to tell Minister Orlando that they didn't come to mind in the Senate, but they came to mind in the government when, bypassing what the Senate had done with common sense, it imposed trust. In this legislature there is an impressive invasion of criminal law that enters everywhere, forgetting that in Italy there is mandatory prosecution, unlike in Europe. For example, this happens in environmental crimes. In this regard, I would like to ask my colleagues a question, not when there is an environmental crime, even a manslaughter, but when there is no manslaughter. I wonder when the direct farmer, the farmer, the entrepreneur, anyone who has an activity does not run the risk of committing a crime even manslaughter. We have the interdicts - certainly - that are administrative, but I wonder if the fight against the mafia must be done through the destruction of companies - as we have heard in the Commission from lawyers and even prefects - on the basis of kinship, therefore without any responsibility and without any crime; whether the prescription, of which we are still discussing, together with the increase in penalties can bring for thirty years a person under trial. At this moment, moreover, we are discussing corruption between private individuals that will trigger even if there is no damage to the company. In the technical report it is stated that there is an exponential increase in the process, since for the competitor of a company it will be possible to denounce even if there is no damage; things that are resolved today perhaps by a dismissal are inserted within a criminal circuit and this is a source of great concern for the economy. Finally, we have heard the situation of prisons, but there are hundreds of people who have already been released and transferred to house arrests, but who are in prison because there is no electronic bracelet. This is incredible; among other things, if a magistrate states that a person waiting for judgment must not be in prison or be under house arrest, why do they keep him in prison for months and months because administratively he lacks the bracelet? We have also made this warning to the Minister, because they will be small things, but they are not for those who, even though they have been released and are entitled to house arrest, remain in prison simply because of an administrative shortage. [[Applause from Senator Mario Ferrara.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-742.ana.u21	Senator Buemi is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-742.ana.u22	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Mr Orlando, I welcome and support your action as a government, and in particular I welcome your non-conspicuous approach to difficult and burning issues. In this overall positive context that you have outlined, some of the issues you have raised need, however, an impetus from you, the Government and the majority I am convinced of. One of these issues is the rapid approval of the crime of torture, which has been lying in this House for too long and which needs an adequate response even in the face of events of chronicle repeatedly recalled in our country. Minister, a strategic reflection on prisons is also needed. The environment digs stone (as one of our illustrious colleagues, who have been dealing with prisons for decades), conditions for good and evil. Minister, then it is not only a problem of area per capita; we must also rethink the construction of our prisons, so that they are adequate to carry out that constitutional purpose which is the re-educational purpose of the sentence. Without a real job in prison, without a formative, re-educational and cultural activity in prison, without an environment of respect for human dignity there can be no positive action of the prison and we see it despite the results that you recalled and that are certainly truthful. I would also like to reflect on psychiatric judicial hospitals. This is a problem that remains open, despite the law that requires it to be overcome and that wants to address the issue from another point of view. We therefore need a financial and even temporal effort to accelerate a process of change of approach with that absolutely inhumane problem of detention in controlled places of those who have severe psychic suffering. Well, Minister, I also appreciated your interview today about Unity. It is true that prison cannot solve everything; therefore it is probably necessary to act earlier, to intervene in the formative phase of citizens and to give greater space to this action of culture than to respect the legal principles of our country, the constitutional principles and the rule of law. Without a broad and profound action and without the removal of serious social situations, it is difficult to loosen the pressure, including statistical pressure, that we have on our institutions of punishment. As far as delays in the action of justice are concerned, Minister, administrative staff are still suffering and there is a need for greater impetus. There is also a need for greater impetus in the growth of magistrates' staff. A black point - if you will allow me, Minister - is the decree that we have approved, which extends the retirement period for the heads of the judiciary and does not address the problem of the abandonment by the magistrates who deal daily with the dossiers, investigations and disputes concerning citizens. I believe that the condition of the apical magistrate, i.e. the manager, must be brought back to equal with respect to the magistrate who carries out the daily work of a larger quantitative dimension. The question of the ineligibility and incompatibility of magistrates remains unresolved, Minister. The relevant bill, which has been laid down for years by this House, is unacceptable to the other branch of Parliament. I believe that there is a need for an impulse from the Government and I also believe - and I address my colleagues from the majority, particularly from the Democratic Party - that this path must be completed. It is unacceptable for us to find ourselves repeatedly in situations of conflict and in situations of difficulty in ascertaining the neutrality of those who take legal action, precisely because they belong to a political party. It is too easy to draw attention to the adage for which Caesar's wife must not only be honest, but must also appear honest; and Caesar's wife, in this case, are the magistrates who daily do their difficult work, but they need this super partes image. I am also referring to those who carry out the investigative investigation and not just to those who carry out judicial activities, precisely because our system has these characteristics. Minister, then, I would like to remind you of a question that remains unresolved in our country: the separation between the investigative judiciary and the judicial judge. Steps have been taken, I recognise, but a clear cut between these two functions has not yet taken place. There would be other issues, Mr President and Mr Minister, which I would like to address, but I shall, if necessary, address them in an explanation of vote, limiting myself here to two last points. Firstly, there is the question of the telematic process: important steps have been taken, but be careful, Minister, not to accept retro-guard attitudes, which occur in too many courts, proposing ways and procedures that recall the traditional system and not the telematic one. Moreover, Minister, too many territories are far from the places of justice. I believe that a resumption of the review of the reform of judicial geography is absolutely essential and must be dealt with quickly. Finally, Minister, the lists and methods of selection of the judge's advisers are all too often prepared according to the result which is to be obtained in the expert's report. This is unacceptable. I shall conclude, Mr President, by thanking the Minister for his report. In the explanation of vote I will refer to other issues which I have not been able to raise at the moment, but I would like to express my appreciation for the work you are doing, Minister, often with the difficulties that come from within the Ministry. [[Applause from Senator Fausto Guilherme Longo.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-742.ana.u23	He's enlisted to speak Senator Mineo. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-742.ana.u24	Mr President, Mr Orlando, of the Ministers of the Gentiloni Government and of the previous Government you are certainly among the most attentive and you have spoken more with the two branches of Parliament and, thanks to this, you have managed to bring home some appreciable results, I give you notice. It has also started a dialogue with the protagonists of the judicial system, with the billing and the organizations of the magistrates. However, this positive desire for dialogue has not always been followed by concrete actions. For example, in his report today he does not speak of what we all know and, that is, that on 26 January, at the inauguration of the judicial year, there will be a rather resounding protest of the magistrates. You know very well that they claim that your commitment to hand over Decree-Law 168 of 2016 did not follow. I would like to say to you pacta sunt servanda and, perhaps, the omission of what will happen in the next inauguration of the judicial year if it could be spared. You said that justice is improving and approaching the European average: well, however, investment in justice is not enough, as Mr Buemi said just now. Your government will have to pay the bill for a financial that was full of electoral expenses with a rather dubious coverage, as we read in the newspapers this morning. It would have been much better if you had obtained a more significant investment in means and men, especially in order to reduce the shame of justice denied. The number of prescriptive processes in our country is very high. It is true that we will finally discuss in days the reform of the criminal trial because the Government and the majority have finally decided to unblock that measure that they had covered up for political-tactic reasons, but that is not enough. In addition to legislative intervention, Minister, you know that not everything can be done with new laws. Too many laws probably kill the law. An investment in means and men would then have been - and is - particularly opportune. I could also discuss the way in which notifications are made - the law also speaks - which, in some cases, is absolutely medieval and this often produces causes of nullity of the trial. This should be dealt with. Mr Orlando, on the other hand, I appreciated your very kind criticism of Parliament regarding the crime of torture (you also mentioned President Mattarella): I agree with you and I think you have been overly polite. Today we all read that Stefano Cucchi was probably beaten wildly and these beatings have perhaps caused his death. If we had already had the crime of torture, it is possible that we would not have come to such resounding revelations many years after the fact, with all the consequences we know. The government can criticize Parliament; indeed, its criticism was welcome, if constructive. As far as this case is concerned, I would also like to ask you why what is in the United States is not foreseen in Italy - it seems to me that it does not exist. My children, who watch the American series, tell me that the law enforcement forces, when they are investigated for alleged abuse, are being investigated by a very special police presumably less rushed towards their workmates. In Italy this does not happen. Of today's news you will not have missed that the American president Barack Obama, breaking a harsh penalty that the U.S. administration has against crimes such as those committed by soldier Manning, granted him the release on May 17, instead of in 2045, as was foreseen by the sentence. This is because of the very special situation of this person, who changed sex in prison and twice attempted suicide last year. The American system is not the same as ours, but I know that there is a government provision that we are talking about (it is not a bill), which raises the question of the condition of the homosexual person in prison. You rightly boast - and we all boast - of having approved the provision on civil unions, but there are other heavy forms of discrimination in prison, where the homosexual person is often subjected to further, grievous, and torture. It would have been nice for you to tell us what the government is up to. In conclusion, I give you a great deal of work you have done. However, it seems to me that this work has not always brought home the result and it seemed to me, if it allows, that today's relationship has been a bit bird-like and has knocked out the tones, hiding the criticalities. Perhaps, for your attention to Parliament, a more frank report would have been more appropriate, but I would have liked it anyway. [[Applause from the Misso-SI-SEL Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-742.ana.u25	Senator Casson is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-742.ana.u26	Mr President, Minister, Senators, I will not go into the specific issues raised by the Minister, whose report I consider to be particularly positive for the efforts he has made and for the dialogue he has made over the years with the judiciary and the lawyer. I shall only touch on a few issues relating to unresolved issues, particularly as regards this last part-session, namely what is the perspective and what should at least be sought to do. I start quickly, for reasons of time, from the question of the fundamental rights of persons, mentioned by the Minister: in addition to the question of civil unions, I recall that the other fundamental issue, which has not been dealt with for known reasons, of stepchild adoption has remained outstanding. Having said that, I also recall that, in the matter of torture, it is shameful that not only in this parliamentary term, but in more legislation, it is not possible in this Chamber of the Senate to arrive at a shared text, thereby violating not only an international legal obligation, but an obligation of civilisation, which should have nothing to do with the activities of the police and the police, who absolutely do not need to resort to torture in order to do their job well. Yet, until now, no government had the strength and courage to impose a decision in compliance with the obligations I had previously mentioned. Yet, on other matters, the Government (including the last and the penultimate) put the confidence to impose respect for a policy on justice that it considered important. I remember what I call a kind of marchetta (a big marchetta), relating to Decree-Law No 168 of 31 August 2016, which extended - and only for a few summits of the judiciary - the possibility of retiring, among other things triggering (this was one of the reasons) the protests and disputes of the organized judiciary. The ratio of that extension has not been understood (it is not yet understood) and in exchange for what has been done: perhaps we will have to wait until spring to see if any of the beneficiaries of that extension will want to apply for the Constitutional Court. Another unresolved issue, already mentioned by Senator Buemi just now, is that of a bill approved by the Senate on 11 March 2014 (now about three years ago), which concerns relations between the judiciary and politics: in that case there had been a speech requested unanimously by the Supreme Council of the judiciary, by various Ministers of Justice, the President of the Republic, the National Association of Judges, lawyers and public opinion, represented by the great newspapers. Even in the face of that proposal, which was almost unanimously approved by the Senate of the Republic three years ago, once it arrived at the Chamber of Deputies, the bill was simply sunk down. The reason for this has not been understood and we do not know who did it. It is only known that there has also been a clash in the courtrooms following a complaint between a senator of this Parliament and the President of the Justice Commission of the House. We do not understand why this bill should be blocked, the result of a sought-after and laboriously achieved balance. I remember, for example, that our proposal on this subject was more rigid than the text that came out, in the sense of the separation between the judiciary and politics, yet in the House there were those who went over the intentions of the Government and over the intentions of the President of the Republic and the Supreme Council of the judiciary. After three years, I believe that the government should have the capacity and the strength to intervene and resolve this problem. The rest of the time I want to devote to deepening the bill on the criminal trial pending in this branch of Parliament. I must say right away that I share to some extent your opinion on the whole text because the bill, as it came from the Chamber of Deputies, for the part concerning amendments to the penal code and the criminal procedure code is modest, intervenes in very limited areas. The Senate Justice Commission had expanded it considerably, deepening it and improving it, among other things by correcting some profiles of constitutional illegitimacy that in a possible reform, with only one branch of Parliament, would allow the entry into force of unconstitutional rules. On the other hand, there are other positive parts, certainly good ones, such as the part on the prison system that finally brings us back to an acceptable level of civilization and there are other rules that concern, for example, the issue of interceptions, rather than the deposit of telephone and environmental interceptions and the legislation, proposed by the rapporteurs from the Commission on justice, on computer receivers. This, among other things, would be the first time that such a matter would be dealt with in a parliamentary Chamber and should be regulated for the first time. On these issues - intercepts and cyber-captors - we had identified and found, and proposed to the Senate Chamber, the rules you guaranteed, in the sense that we had found a balance between the demands of justice and the requirements of protecting the privacy of people, and instead everything stopped for what I think the real node, the real block, that is, the theme of prescription. Now, it is well known that I share in the slightest part of the proposal that has arrived in the Senate Chamber. I believe that it is a cloth, hot or cold one can evaluate it only later but anyway a cloth, because the prescription would deserve a much more in-depth system intervention, as well as an intervention on notifications and the use of telematics and computer science to modernise the criminal process. There has been a blockage on these issues. Now I think it is essential, as far as the work of this Parliament and the Government is concerned, for the time we have left, to decide what to do: it has the capacity, it has the strength of the Government to intervene and to impose a line or there are still fears, within the majority and the Government, of a split that would not allow to modernize the penitentiary order, the penal code and the code of criminal procedure? These are the issues that remain essentially to be addressed. In this panorama of legislature, and therefore looking forward in perspective, I believe there is the possibility to address the unresolved issues that are of various thickness and various complexity, but I believe that the intervention by the Minister of Justice in particular, and therefore in the final line of the Government, could be fundamental to give a broader and more modern view of the state of justice of our country. [[Applause from Senator Mussini]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-742.ana.u27	Senator D'Ascola is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-742.ana.u28	Mr President, I too very much welcome and I agree with the Minister for Justice's intervention both for the choice of subjects and for the way in which each subject has been dealt with. I appreciate, in order to go into detail, an analysis that is rarely heard in Parliament's classrooms, that is, to point out that the excess of the trials is nothing more than the excess of a really unmanageable amount of criminal law that feeds them. On this point, the Minister used unequivocal terminology, for which I am of course grateful, and I believe that we should all be grateful to him for the indication he gives to legislative activity. The idea of a symbolic criminal law, which should give - to use a widely used terminology - answers to social problems is the idea that has led us to this dramatic condition of unmanageability of a criminal justice that is based on numbers not corresponding to the reasonableness of a criminal system that, of course, should benefit from deflated solutions, but should, above all, still and more, upstream, benefit from an alternative to the punitive system of criminal law. I refer to the creation of that punitive administrative law, which was already within a historical but not implemented law, No. 689 of 1981. It is important, however, that we begin to understand and say that criminal law does not create security. Criminal law intervenes when crimes - or, rather, events - have occurred. It is therefore a punitive right, which, of course, has a function of strengthening safety, but it can only be pursued if the prevention system begins to become truly effective. The equivalence is not between crime and security, but between an effective system of prevention and security for citizens. I welcome the references to the need for an arsenal of sanctions that is finally made appropriate and appropriate to the needs of the times. One of the most negative aspects, on which Parliament has intervened (but in a limited and still unsatisfactory way), is a recurring prison emergency, due to a criminal law that is based mainly on prison sentences, with some exceptions but - I repeat - still totally insignificant. On the contrary, our penal justice system should be enriched by non-convict prison sanctions and criminal punishment but not prison sanctions. We even already have a draft penal code which contains within it a truly diversified arsenal of sanctions, the one born from the Nordio commission and subsequently from the commission Pisapia, that on this point have been much spent; but the initiatives aimed at resolving the structural nodes of our criminal system, then, almost always end up being put aside and put aside, as if they were not needed. Similarly, I agree with the reference to importance, I must also say dogmatic (as far as dogmatic can be said), the tenuity of the fact, which recognizes at the level of ordinary legislation a fundamental constitutional principle, that of offense, and also solves a paradox, that of a Constitutional Court that had theorized it for a long time and a substantive criminal law that, on the contrary, ended up denying it and relegated it only to the law of minors, as if between criminal law of minors and criminal law without any other qualification one could imagine a serious differentiation. I also welcome and agree with the references made to an important bill which is pending examination by the Assembly, No 2067. I would like to claim - but on the point I note that there is a full coincidence of ideas - that that prescription, which has been so inappropriately discussed, is seen by this House as a balanced liberal system that ensures the reasonable duration of the trials. This is a subject on which there has been a great deal of debate: I am very pleased to see that this constitutionalized function is recognized at the institution of limitation, because the reasonable duration of the processes is not a category of spirit, but a constitutional implementing rule and in the implementation of fundamental rights of citizens. Moreover, the Senate Act 2067, to which I make episodic references, includes within it a reform of the penitentiary order that would place Italy at the top among the modern countries that pose the problem, of punishment certainly, but of a human punishment, in accordance with those constitutional principles that prevent the execution of the sanctioning treatment of criminal law can consist of treatments contrary to the sense of humanity. I should like to conclude, because it should be said too much in the limited time frame that we inevitably have - and, let me say, quite rightly - attributed and, if everything were to be dealt with, the Minister felt that he included in his report and everything is part of the knowledge that we have of an extremely complex and emerging world of justice and if we thought we were all in agreement with the solutions and indications of the problems, it would be false. We are dealing with a number of very important texts: the reform of the civil process, for example, is one that is currently being discussed in the Commission on Justice. I have to say, as mere information, but also as a starting point for possible reflection and debate, that on neurological issues, such as the court for minors, the family court and the related problem of family law are critical, highlighted above all during the many hearings to which the senators thought they had to resort and that, to be honest, they enriched the debate on the really complex point of a delegation that embraces the entire code of civil procedure.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-742.ana.u29	Finish it, Senator.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-742.ana.u30	D'Ascola (AP (Ncd-CpI)). This is an indication which I would like to give so that, from what emerges from the parliamentary debate and, above all, from the hearings, we can draw inspiration for reflections that will certainly contribute to the rapid adoption of the bill. [[Applause from the AP Group (Ncd-CpI) and Senator Comrade.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-742.ana.u31	He's enlisted to speak Senator Giarrusso. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-742.ana.u32	Mr President, Minister, the first thing that the Five Star Movement needs to point out is that in such an important matter to have your report in hand only a few minutes before speaking, it is not, in our opinion, respectful of the relations that should exist between the Government and the Parliament of the Republic. It is not possible to comment on a report which contains numbers, figures and data which do not appear to Members of this Parliament, at least to those of the opposition. You are talking about new resources for justice, but the members of the Budget Committee always tell us about the usual cuts that come in each budget. And then, Minister, forgive me, but your report seems to be written for another country, which is not Italy. It is not the report on the justice of a country gripped in the grip of corruption and the mafia, to which only a nod is made en passant, to speak of the convocation of smoky general states. This House, Minister, is deeply wounded by the mafia: we have a senator who has been in jail since August for the mafia. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]] This is a very serious fact, which should have been pointed out in a government intervention on the administration of justice in this House. This is an emergency. We are witnessing the resurrection, in every investigation, of ghosts that seemed buried - but are not - of Freemasonry, Minister. The link between the mafia, politics, Freemasonry and corruption is now stable. Instead, we are faced with a Ministry that has turned our country into a prison, Minister, because when there are 39,000 prisoners who have been put to serve the sentence outside prisons, it means that you, Minister, have transformed 60 million people into subjects who live with prisoners. Do you know what the Forces of Order have become? Ask them and they'll tell you that they've become custody agents, because that's what they do all day. To give an example that I know, when in a city like Catania there are thousands of dangerous delinquents serving the sentence outside the prison, what must the Forces of Order do? Do their job, ensure the safety of citizens, do the investigation or do the custody agents going around to verify that these subjects really discount the penalty at home? Does this seem to you to be the way to ensure the safety of citizens? When you, Minister, speak of new forces and new investments in justice, we would like to understand how this fits in with the liquidation of 400 experienced magistrates who have been put at the door with a law, without the possibility of having an immediate replacement. This is so serious and unprecedented in the history of this country that you had to resort to a legging only for some, because maybe some of the friends who complained about it ended up among those 400. Is this the administration of justice you're telling us about? Is this the administration of justice in a modern country as Italy would like to be? No, Minister, that's not how you do it. When you bring us, for example, the reduction of civil cases for almost two million cases, this is not a goal in a country devastated like Italy, in which people not only have no confidence in justice, but now they no longer see it physically in their cities because there are no more courts. This decrease in causes, Minister, is simply a sign that there is no more justice in this country. There are no causes because there is no justice! In a democratic country, we expect a Minister, in his report, to come and say that this year the Ministry has undertaken its own efforts to give justice to the citizens, not to take them away, as you have done, and to boast of the results in terms of the organization of the courts. What do the citizens who no longer have access to justice do, Minister? For the most part they are good people and suffer, but not all suffer and there is an embarrassment of this country, against which it is not secondary the liquidation of justice that this majority, the PD, its Ministry have carried out pervicaciously, despite this Assembly unanimously opposed the indiscriminate cut of the courts. You have persisted and it is not secondary or random that among the 39,000 persons who serve the sentence outside the prison there are the main protagonists, even politicians, of the scandals of the bribes, who have been convicted and who have not served the prison. This is a grave injustice, and as such it is experienced by those 60 million citizens who are just waiting for the time to vote to tell you clearly and roundly that they want justice, that this seems to them an injustice, a favor done to friends. It is not possible, Minister, that you do not speak of the fact that although you have cut off the possibility of sending criminals to jail, they lie for years at the gip requests for the arrest of very dangerous people, the last ones that can end up in jail. Not a word about this scandal. The prosecutors who work with so many difficulties deposit before the gip the demands and the gips, flooded with work, take years and leave out who, Minister? Dangerous people, who make meat for the slaughter of helpless citizens, those we should protect, not the powerful people you refer to when you talk about privacy and wiretapping. Is this the only objective to be protected by your majority and your ministry? Do the powerful people who talk and talk over the phone, or do the people who are victims of crime and crime? We need a change of course. We are well aware that you and your majority cannot make this change of course. Go straight to the iceberg that will sink you: you are going to all steam. But we have a duty to remind you of this, because this is also our country; it is no longer your country, Minister, because your country has left you now. The country demands equal justice for all, not free white collars of criminals and outside, not decreases in interceptions. Your only concern in the Justice Commission is to limit the instruments that led to the most important investigations in this country, the ones that we were talking about, where the connection between mafia, organized crime, politics and Freemasonry emerges. And what do we have? Instead of sending backup to the front line, you try to decrease your strength. What should the citizens think, Minister? Something's wrong, and something's wrong here, in these classrooms and in those government benches, and we'll report it every day, Minister, as long as we have a voice. We must allow access to justice for all citizens, we are not only at justice for those who have money, Minister. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] We are not talking about the fact that there are only poor Christians in prison. We want to see those responsible for the main scandals go to jail and pay with the prison sentence: all this prosopopea on alternative penalties only serves to leave out your friends, with whom you have committed even serious crimes! [[Applause from the M5S Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-742.ana.u33	Senator Dirindin is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-742.ana.u34	Mr President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, first of all, I would like to express my thanks for the work that has been undertaken and which has been completed by the Minister on these important issues. Above all, I would like to draw attention to issues that are particularly important not only to me but to many of my colleagues in particular to the members of the Health Commission, which concern the health of people deprived of freedom and that process which is under way and concerns the closure of criminal asylums, provided for by Law No 81 of 2014. This law, for me, is a pride for this parliamentary term and for this Parliament, for trying to start a difficult process in the face of the outrage that we have all witnessed when the situation in which people lived in criminal asylums was made known. That law, like all laws, obviously does not walk alone, needs the great commitment of all, both the administration of justice and the administration of health care. The closure of criminal asylums is an important step after the closure of civil asylums, for which I recall that our country is considered a reference point for the whole of Europe. That process needs to be followed closely, and my intervention is to call on the Government to keep a high level of attention to that process and, more generally, to the process of the difficult transfer of competences for the protection of the health of prisoners from the judicial administration to the health administration. I say a few words about the process of overcoming the OPGs. We know that it will shortly be two years since we planned the closure of psychiatric judicial hospitals. We needed a police station that involved many regions, because unfortunately that process in some regions had not been initiated. Commissioner Corleone has just presented a report drawing the picture and we know that there are still two criminal criminal criminal criminals, that of Barcelona Pozzo di Gotto and that of Montelupo Fiorentino. In total, these days, there are 26 people still interned. Probably, the OPG of Barcelona Pozzo di Gotto will be closed very quickly, while a little more complex, as far as I know, is the closure of Montelupo Fiorentino. We need a great deal of attention for this process. I would like to recall President De Biasi's amendment to the delegation law, which seeks to clarify certain aspects that have remained unresolved in overcoming the OPGs and to point out that the good work that has been done, especially from Table 10 of the General States of Criminal Enforcement, must be carried out because we cannot be content, when it comes to fundamental rights, such as the right to the health of prisoners and in particular of minors, simply declarations, statements that we share, but that require a great commitment to their translation into concrete acts. [[Applause from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-742.ana.u35	We greet the students and students of the Scientific Lyceum "Giovanni Vailati" of Genzano, in the province of Rome, who follow our works. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-742.ana.u36	He's enlisted to speak Senator Malan. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-742.ana.u37	Minister, thank you for your report, but there are a few points, which I would like to mention, which have not been included in your report. I am thinking, for example, of the incident that has emerged in recent days, representative of many others, of that man who has been in prison for 22 years, condemned for a very serious crime, and who has then been found innocent. This is one of many cases. Well, I believe that responding to the demand for justice means not only calling for the doubling or quadrupling of penalties, calling for jail as a remedy for any evil of society, as proposed by the 5 Star Movement (especially if it is a question of others, of course), but also measuring justice and above all curbing that absolute injustice that is the crime committed by the State against the citizen. Why else is keeping an innocent person in prison? If a citizen recludes someone called kidnapping and is subjected to serious penalties, when the State does so, it is even more serious, because in addition there is the muddling of a person and perhaps the destruction of a life: 22 years in prison do not heal, they cost the State in terms of compensation but certainly no one would change, especially those who tried the prison. Those who are outside, those who have never seen a prison except in some TV show, have the wrong idea: our prisons are a place where it is unfair that those who have committed crimes are held in certain conditions, and who are therefore rightly detained, but in conditions where their recovery is possible and possible, according to the Constitution, and not a route to more serious crimes or to the permanence in a state of delinquency. On this point I have heard nothing in your report, nor have I heard of the results of the reform of the civil liability of judges, which has been discussed so much. How many magistrates from that reform have been called to answer for their mistakes? I don't think so. You rightly did not mention this in your report. We had foreseen this from the start, because it is a reform that provides responsibility in all cases except in those that take place in practice: not in the case of interpretation of evidence, not in the case of interpretation of laws. So, practically, never. To those who speak of justice I say that it must be the same for all. A doctor who makes certain mistakes, even not in bad faith, risks a great deal; a magistrate risks nothing. And this is a damage, not for the thirst for gallows, which I absolutely do not agree with and do not agree with (but not everyone in this House has this idea), but to protect the vast majority of magistrates who do their work well. That is something to be protected. Unfortunately, with this reform nothing can be touched in this sense: everyone is free from any mistake they make, even serious and even in bad faith. Then there was another point that would have been good to go further. In your report you spoke about the problem of minors, the court of minors and the reception, but the only point you mentioned was the unacceptable disparity in the compensation given to these host houses. Well, there is much more, Minister: issues I have highlighted in a number of questions. For example: when will the database on children out of the family arrive? We have been talking about this for years, long before you became Minister, but you have been Minister for three years now and in the last three years what has been done? This data isn't there. We have cases of resounding injustices, which I have denounced in some unanswered questions. I mention only the case, among the many of whom I have come to know, of a gentleman whose two children were torn away at a very tender age. These children have always remained under the protection of the State, entrusted to this or that host house or other beautiful institutions. Well, these two children, before even becoming of age, thanks to the care of the state that tore them from their legitimate father, have both become addicts and both with judicial precedents. Then, on the eve of the completion of their eighteenth birthday, they were suddenly returned to the father to whom they had been torn, telling him: now take care of us. And this gentleman also had to leave his job in order to look after his children, as they were also bound to a certain residence. But that's not what we're talking about. The only problem is compensation. There is also this problem, and perhaps exaggerated compensation that is given to those who welcome minors so well as happened in the case I mentioned, is the key to the fact that so many minors are entrusted and that there is no such blessed database, because otherwise we will know things hallucinating. I am merely an example of the horror of "Il Forteto" which for years has continued to be assigned minors, despite the crimes committed there. Finally, Minister, your party's electoral programme provided for the reopening of six courts, which I do not have to name because my time is up. What have the majority and the government, supported in part by the Democratic Party, done to implement this specific and precise point of the programme? Absolutely nothing, except to reject my amendments and my agendas asking the Democratic Party to implement its programme! [[Senator Floris' applause. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-742.ana.u38	He's enlisted to speak Senator Lo Giudice. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-742.ana.u39	Mr President, I would like to thank Mr Orlando for his detailed report, but above all for having produced, in synergy with Parliament, an improvement in the justice system in our country over the years. The Minister recalled some of the main results achieved: the measures on decriminalisation, on the transformation of certain crimes into administrative sanctions and on the tenuity of the fact have certainly made it possible to lighten the pressure on the courts. The reform of the honorary judiciary has given a more appropriate framework for the commitment of many qualified justice practitioners. The drastic reduction in prison overcrowding, from 15,000 to 4,000 more guests than expected, with the doubling of access to alternative measures, if it did not achieve the goal of eliminating the total number, certainly took an important step in that direction. The closure of judicial psychiatric hospitals is awaiting its final completion, with the closure of the last two structures in Barcelona Pozzo di Gotto and Montelupo Fiorentino and the activation of those Residences for the execution of the health security measure (REMS) not yet operational, but this is also a turning point of civilization, as the Minister defined the law on civil unions. On civil unions I would like to thank Andrea Orlando here for his non-formal support and for having provided the law of clear implementing decrees, which allow to overcome the interpretative uncertainties of these months and especially the resistances of those Legist mayors who in recent months have tried to boycott their correct application. It is only a first step towards the social and legal equality of lesbian and gay people, equality that can only be achieved through the egalitarian extension of civil marriage and the recognition of the rights of children of rainbow families. However, it was certainly a historic step, on which the constant attention of the Ministry of Justice should be recognized. Today the Italian judicial system continues to be plagued by a structural imbalance between human and economic resources and the workload, but the measures taken have allowed, given the hand, to relieve that pressure in these three years. Of course, just a few months after the end of the parliamentary term, the fact that we need to be more interested and concerned is that Parliament is debating a series of measures which, if adopted, will make the difference between a process of justice reform only begun and a structural change of the system. I am referring above all to the reform of the criminal process and the system of prescriptions, to the delegation on the prison system, which would give a concrete outlet to those general states of execution which have represented a very important experience of involving all those involved in a public reflection of weight, the reform of the civil process and that of the anti-mafia code. There is also a package of measures still in progress that would add further importance to that commitment of the Government and Parliament on the issue of civil rights which has already seen in this legislature the approval of the short divorce, the adoption by the foster families, civil unions and de facto cohabitations, the crime of misdirection and the law on the caporalate. A number of highly anticipated measures are already under discussion in the Commission in the two branches of Parliament: the reform of the adoption law, the draft law on the end of life, the decriminalisation of the use of cannabis, the amendment of Law No 40 of 2004, to name a few. Above all, there are numerous legislative proposals already approved by the House and pending approval in this branch of Parliament: the introduction of the crime of torture, that of homophobia, the law on citizenship, that on foreign minors, access to biological information by the adopted children, the possibility of transmission to the children of the surname of the mother, on which the Constitutional Court, with sentence published on 28 December last, asks for an indisputable legislative intervention, intended to regulate organically the matter, according to criteria finally appropriate to the principle of equality. On these measures, I call on the Minister of Justice and this House to find the right synergies so that this last part of the legislature can enable us to complete, at least in its significant parts, the important work begun. [[Applause from the PD Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-742.ana.u40	He's enlisted to speak Senator Caliendo. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-742.ana.u41	Mr President, I would like to thank the Minister for his report, which, however, suffers from a bad moment of celebration, in the sense that we should rethink this way of reporting to the Parliament of the Minister of Justice, otherwise - as you can see - there is no interest in discussing these problems. I think we should make an effort not to discuss individual measures. Forza Italia has no interest in saying no in a mere spirit of opposition, because we are not a party today in the Government. In recent years, Forza Italia has demonstrated that it has made specific proposals for concrete solutions. For example, in the area of the fight against corruption, you know better than I that it was enough to accept our amendment on the fake in the budget so as not to have the contrast with the Court of Cassation. You know better than me that that up-to-date debate in this House on the problems of justice - Mr President, you too - would have led to an increase in the culture of legality in our country, tearing apart that illusory idea that only criminal intervention or increased punishment can combat corruption. No, Minister. A few steps forward has been taken at the level of prevention, but the DAC cannot be the deus ex machina that solves everything, because in the end it solves nothing. When we discuss justice, Minister, we must look at three points, first of all access to justice. Are we still like a country in the past where citizens have free access to justice? No, Minister. Let us think of the less well-off classes, those who do not have the opportunity to bear the enormous increase in the unified contribution, those who do not have the possibility to endure a system of justice based on the inadmissibility and the search, by some magistrates, of the way of not giving justice but of resolving the problem differently. I would like to call on you and me, Minister, to observe how, at the time when, on the one hand, I see that the notice of guarantee and the registration in the register of suspects by guarantee measures have changed or can be used as arguments for political struggle; and on the other hand, I see that, even today, after we have passed a law in this House, the impartiality of the judge must also be ensured with regard to appearance: Minister, you know better than I do that it is still not possible for me to allow, for example, after being a senator, I can return to the role of magistrate, being able to judge his position politically or criminally. This is something that needs to be resolved. Just as the problem of legal certainty must be solved. How is legal certainty achieved, which is the basis of the judicial system? There is a nomophilachia of the Court of Cassation, which must be privileged through the need, for the judge who wants to deviate from it, to give an interpretation and a motivation, because the lack of legal certainty is the basis of the increase in crime and the legitimacy of crime itself. Where there is no legal certainty, in fact, there is the certainty of those who are able to ensure the protection of the law against the strongest. Finally, there is the way of confrontation between opposition and majority. Minister, I have tabled amendments concerning the retirement age of magistrates and the vacation of magistrates and you know better than I do that you have rejected them. At the same time, however, the Supreme Council of the judiciary has given a longer time than I expected to do in order to deal with current affairs. As far as retirement is concerned, you know better than I do that I had planned a staggering for three years: you said no and then you did a staggering for two years, even reducing it, only for some people, to the last year. Similarly, Minister, it is not functional for the administration of justice to have changed the four years of legitimacy into three. What are the reasons for these changes that affect the way we are? I am talking about the positions of the magistrates who also concern the overall management of the judicial staff in relation to the existing judicial offices. You know better than I do, for having fought with me and others (when you were a Member) to save some courts because you needed to give a clear and precise answer, that a court that has to execute justice for a million inhabitants creates areas of denial. The decision-making times are completely different. The judicial-citizen relationship is based not only on the way of making the judgment, but also on the ability to listen and to give answers to citizens, those who still have the opportunity to address the judge, who need immediate answers. How can we accept that, in the case of two married couples in conflict and in the presence of children - I ask you, who are always interested in the subject of children and children - the President's intervention for the opening hearing of the separation or divorce process intervenes after eight to nine months? You have to organize the administration of justice and we are willing to give you all the help you need for this scum to end and get to celebrate that hearing within three months. We are willing, as always, to give you all the help you need, but at the same time we demand respect, that is to say we expect a confrontation on the ideas and not the position of votes adopted with the reason for the majority number. [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII and Senator Di Maggio]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-742.ana.u42	He's enlisted to speak Senator Pagliari. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-742.ana.u43	Mr President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, the Minister's interesting report touched on contingent issues and structural problems. I would like to focus on these. First of all, the Minister touched on the question of the scope, the space and the function that legality and internal jurisdictions have in the context of globalisation and the internationalisation of phenomena. It is another side of the medal of the theme of the roles of national governments in the given context, faced with the great international finance and supranational economic power. It is a dramatic and, together, inescapable issue that must pass from Europe, hoping that the latter will not weaken too much or in fact become an unimportant political subject. It is a question which cannot fail to find its way into an ever-widening supranational law, even if it is limited to certain areas, not just public order. There is a clear problem of protecting the civil rights of States, which is distinct from that of citizens, but which is decisive for the effectiveness of civil rights and citizens themselves. The constant strengthening of European cooperation, including as a pro-dromic phase for the European Public Prosecutor, is certainly important and preparatory to the wider process of creating supranational law. In the context of the reflection more attentive to internal problems, another structural problem touched on by the Minister is that of the relationship between powers. And, in particular, between political and judicial power. In accordance with the Constitution and the ratio of jurisdiction provisions, I believe there is a problem. The place of the trial must remain that of the courtrooms and cannot be replaced by the media process. The Constitution based on the presumption of innocence and guarantor, outlines as unconstitutional this last process and every practice that leads to this. The exercise of the investigative function, in particular, must be absolutely respectful of these limits and must have a clear discipline of the responsibility for the violation of these limits. There are two issues here: the responsibility for the investigative action and the discipline of interception. As far as the first is concerned, I believe that reflection is necessary, because the principle of responsibility for initiating proceedings and non-archiving must also be stated in a clearer way, as well as for the decision-making function where it seems to me better defined. As far as the discipline of interceptions is concerned, the draft law under discussion is certainly acceptable, as part of the broader reform of the criminal process and of the criminal procedure, but it is perhaps desirable to have further reflection on the level of the undue "escape" of interceptions. I believe that the issue of responsibility for the undue "escape" of interceptions needs further reflection; I do not say that an objective responsibility must be reached, but I believe that a burden of proof, more complex and delicate, must be borne by those responsible for the offices. It is too important to protect rights and it is unacceptable that the undue "escape" of interceptions can lead to a media process that neither achieves justice nor political civilization. Once again, the Constitution requires this, as required by Articles 2 and 3: the protection of the rights of the person, political and legal civilization. Another theme has also been touched on, that of the plurality of jurisdictions. It is a delicate and controversial theme: specialisation is indefectible and it is in the nature of things. It is not my idea of the uniqueness of jurisdiction, but certainly you cannot think about it until you have a judicial system of sure efficiency. As for the excessive prediction of criminal offences, it is a subject that concerns the question of the protection of legality and rights, because the configuration of the tricotomy between criminal, administrative and civil illegality arises and develops precisely on the basis of the reflection on the need for repression of the unlawful in view of its gravity, its damage and the need to protect the offended. It is a question of the effectiveness of the law and the sanction, a fundamental problem for the credibility of a necessary sanctioning system. There is no doubt that, due to the effectiveness of the criminal system, the containment of crimes is fundamental and it is a general law that excessive legislation does not lead to greater legality, but risks reducing the legality itself. There is an obvious theme, in my view: what is the point of the offence in the given context, especially when only the fine is provided? None: clogged the courtrooms unnecessarily. It is therefore desirable that a systemic reflection should be initiated in order to identify a new relationship between the three criminal, civil and administrative offences. I also believe that consideration should be given to the area of civil wrongdoing, especially non-contractual law, as an instrument of repression of illegality in order to avoid an excess of fake repression of the illegals entrusted to the jurisdiction or to the public administration. Compared to the latter, greater accountability is needed in the repression and enforcement of sanctions. This is a subject that is only mentionable here, because it is not within your competence. One last reflection: I believe that on the level of jurisdiction the issue of the efficiency of the system - as you have rightly pointed out - is an argument on which we must not deflect, especially with attention to the objective of recovering a true efficiency of the judicial function. Alternative systems are sacred, but we must aim for a fully efficient public judicial system. From this point of view we will also guarantee greater effectiveness of the right of action, which certain measures - let me say this, although I understand the practical reason - have limited in terms of exceptions of inadmissibility or filters of various kinds. But these are measures which I hope will be recovered in the context of a higher efficiency of the system. [[Applause from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-742.ana.u44	The debate is closed. I communicate that motions for resolutions No 1 have been tabled by Senators Zanda, Bianconi and Zeller, No 2, Senator Stefani and other Senators, No 3, Senator Mussini and other Senators, and No 4, Senator Giarrusso and other Senators, whose texts are distributed. I call on the Minister for Justice, Mr Orlando, to respond, and I would also ask him to give his opinion on the motions for resolutions tabled.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-742.ana.u45	Mr President, I am in favour of resolution No 1 and I am against all the other resolutions tabled. Mr President, I would like to thank you for your attention to the issues of justice. Ladies and gentlemen, the indices of justice, recorded on the basis of parameters that I have not set but that sets the international community through partially different criteria, in this country improve and this is a difficult fact to refute, which does not mean that all the problems of justice have been solved: I do not have this courage and I do not support such a daring thing. However, I believe that progress has been made which I would call significant. During these years at the head of the Ministry, I have often asked myself a question that may seem trivial: why haven't some things been done before? Probably, the former will have the answer; sometimes I have not been able to answer. I would like to give two examples. Since I've been political, and it's been many years, I hear that prison overcrowding has to be dealt with by repatriating foreign inmates. Well, the first treaty with Morocco for the repatriation of prisoners (the one from Morocco is one of the most important communities of prisoners in our country) was signed with my installation at the Ministry. I heard Senator Giarrusso reproaching me for disrespecting Parliament because I did not produce my report in good time. I apologise, but I must say that he does not show much more about Parliament itself, intervening and then not listening to the reply. [[Applause from the PD and Aut groups (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT) - PSIMAIE]] However, we thank him for having anticipated the judicial policy with which the 5 Star Movement will run for the leadership of Italy. [[Protests from the M5S Group.]] MARTON (M5S). Answer the question! SANTANGELO (M5S). Say what you have to say!
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-742.ana.u46	Senator Santangelo, don't interrupt. It is a fact that the senator is not present. [[Senator Santangelo's comments]] Senator Santangelo, please do not interrupt the Minister's intervention. MARTON (M5S). Do your job! ANGIONES (PD). Do it yourself! CARDINALI (PD). It's called a replica!
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-742.ana.u47	I'm doing it, Senator. I must say that Senator Giarrusso raised a well-founded question, namely the issue of the numerical relationship between the investigative judiciary and the judicial jury. This is another question I asked myself: why has it not been done, since the 1950s, a revision of organic plants that redesigned the distribution of the judiciary in the country? We know that organized crime is no longer only in the South; we know that during the years of the emergency the staff of the prosecutors have been significantly increased without this being compensated for by an increase, for example, in the number of judges for preliminary investigations. Well, we were the first government to review overall the organic plant of the magistrates. It would be as if a large company had maintained the same location on the territory as it had in 1945: I understand that none remained exactly in the same conditions. We have done a sometimes silent job - sometimes I reproach myself, too quietly - because we are engaged in a job, for which I thank all the collaborators and undersecretaries who have helped me over the years, which has not allowed us to say something with sufficient force. Even the results we have achieved today and which are recognized, beyond propaganda, numbers, are however precarious if we are not able to approve the laws that give a definitive framework of reference to these progresses. I think it was a mistake not to approve, when the necessary window was opened, the reform of the criminal process and I hope that the next windows will not remain unused. [[Applause from the PD Group]] Justice is not yet a resource for the country, it is useless to deny it; it no longer represents, however, the weight that it constituted when we began to face the problem. On this point I would like to start from a figure which emerged in the various speeches. It has been argued in this debate that basically a quality index of a judicial system would be the number of litigation, so I should not boast that the litigation has decreased. When we settled down we were second only to the Russian Federation, which evidently, according to this criterion, should be the example to which to refer from the point of view of the efficiency of the judicial system. We did indeed have a number of causes - and I believe that this should be the criterion - which had no reference in the countries of equal size of the European Union, because the process was - and I stress "was" - used as a form of delay in payment. Today this is no longer true and we are aligned from the point of view of the issues of litigation at the same level as countries like France and other major countries of the European Union. We are in the middle ranking from the point of view of litigation within the countries of the Council of Europe. I would urge you to reflect on the fact that this decline in litigation did not occur, contrary to what has been said, with the increase in the unified contribution. In fact, the unified contribution has increased in years in which litigation has also increased; for three years the unified contribution has not been modified and the litigation has decreased. But if we want to get out of national borders, we stress the fact that Italy is the country that asks the citizen less in terms of unified contribution compared to the cost of service. We are below the average of the other European countries and we are not referring - and I would never like to do so - to countries that ask the citizen for a contribution that covers 80% or 90% of the cost of service; I am thinking, among others, of Germany and Austria, often cited as examples of the functioning of civil justice. I believe that Italy among the European countries is one of those in which access to justice is best guaranteed. I'm not saying there aren't any surgeries yet. I believe that more work can be done on public defence, such as legal aid; I believe that work can also be done on the question of the safeguarding of certain categories of the poor, but I am not saying that ours is a system that prevents access to justice. Over the course of these years we have climbed, with regard to the ranking Doing Business (I could mention others but I limit myself to this), by 40 positions compared to the starting point; in the last report last year we have improved by three other positions. This may not console us because, as Senator Stefani said, we are behind countries that are more recent legal traditions, but I would point out that we are the only country within the European Union that has grown significantly. In fact, while many other major countries of the European Union are lagging behind small countries that manage to have smarter performances, we are the only country that has made progress on the issue of resolving commercial disputes. It is not true that these results have been achieved without investment, not only because we have grown in investment (in three years we have invested 1.6 billion euros); it has been said that it has been done in the face of the reduction of availability: it is absolutely true, because we have moved resources from current expenditure to investment and we have done so with cuts, including those related to judicial geography. I would like to stress the fact that, despite the reduction of the offices of the judicial offices in our country, we are still in Europe one of the countries with the largest number of judicial offices. Was it normal to have 2,000 before? Let us compare with other European countries: let us only do this kind of verification. These cuts have been made, however, also with a considerable rationalization of the resources: the Directorates-General of the Ministry of Justice have been almost halved; the total expenditure has been revised; the energy bill of the offices has been reduced; the passage of the competences and the management of the judicial offices from the municipalities to the Ministry has resulted in a reduction of a third of the expenditure and all this money has been reallocated. Over the course of last year, we distributed 30,000 new computers and installed 180 high-end servers. ADRs work, contrary to what was thought at the time we left, I must say with some perplexity because I did not believe that in some cases they would have such a significant success. We were able to enter almost 2,000 units of administrative staff; we restarted a redevelopment of administrative staff; we competed for 2,000 units. I would like to represent here the difficulty of making a staff recruitment policy at this stage. We launched a competition in November last year for 1,000 units, which then, thanks to the 2017 budget law, became 2,000. We've received 320,000 questions. Do you know what it's like to do a contest for 320,000 people? This inevitably shifts the possibility of hiring, because we cannot at all violate the legitimate right of everyone to compete and see their value assessed. We have tried to make up for this time gap by entering 3,000 trainees, ex Article 73 and 1,200 non-graduate trainees; we have placed 300 units in the system substantially in command of the Regions and we will continue on this path, to try to alleviate a difficulty that the system has had to endure. Let me just say one thing: a new chancellor has not entered our judicial offices since 1999. [[Applause from the PD Group and Senators Buemi and Valdinosis.]] Senator Mineo, I am a sincere admirer of many institutes that characterize the reality of the United States, but I would not take them as a reference for the prison system, frankly, not only because it is the second country in the world for the rate of imprisonment (only behind the Seychelles Archipelago, if I am not mistaken: I do not know what exactly they do to Seychelles for such a record, but this is a given), but because today, if we go to see the population - and this is the theme that President Obama has placed - we discover that justice does not entirely regard race and census. We have made some progress in prisons and, here too, however, I would like to repeat what I said in general terms, by introducing these considerations. The achievements we have made are not lasting: they will be if they are crystallized in a reform of the penitentiary order that is contained in the bill on the reform of the criminal law. The criterion that needs to be changed is this, and look at this today, a new emergency also asks for it: Islamic radicalization within the prison. We must treat prisoners individually and differently (we cannot treat prisoners in the same way as they did in the past that they have different profiles), but to do so we must completely rethink the prison. Overcrowding was a first step, but it is certainly not decisive. Of course, an overcrowded prison is a prison where it is difficult to individualize the treatment, indeed it is impossible, as it is impossible to address the issue of radicalization; indeed, it risks being an outbreak where radicalization develops, but this is only a necessary condition, absolutely not sufficient. We must build a prison in which there are no automatisms, in which access to the benefits is linked to the behaviour of the prisoner and the foreclosure of the benefits is not simply linked to the crime, but to the behavior that is actually assessed during the course of the treatment. In order to do so, however, we need to give the prisoner opportunities; in order to be able to make him responsible, we need to assess whether he says yes or no to the possibilities offered to him and today prison does not offer them these possibilities, although I must say that some signs are positive and over the course of these three years we have seen the work of the prisoners constantly growing, although still not at levels that can be considered sufficient. It is not true, Senator Falanga, that I did not provide the number of seats available (I will give you a copy of my report): the places available were 46,000 at the time of our settlement, today there are 52,200 and will grow by another 700 units over the coming months. I do not accept the term "empty prisons" for a very simple reason: the persons who have been executed at this time are more than those who were subjected to criminal execution when the maximum amount of prison overcrowding has been reached. The problem is that today our country is a country that executes the penalty as all the other more advanced European countries carry it out. When we settled, in front of four inmates there was a person under external criminal execution; currently, for each inmate, there is a person under external criminal execution. Sure, Senator Giarrusso is right to point out that this was at the expense of the Forces of Order, who had to make a sacrifice, but he gives us a system that is more advanced today. Today we are taking another step, that of strengthening the external criminal enforcement offices and I thank Parliament for increasing the allocation for these realities, which will allow the forces of order to be partially relieved of this type of activity. There are other good signs, although in a picture that I do not yet consider satisfactory, which I would like to point out. Last year, there were 3,773 drug addicts who had been assigned to alternative punishment, this year 5,343, in order to achieve the goal of not having drug addicts in prison when they are to be treated within the communities. There is a fact of which I am not satisfied and it concerns the issue of protective custody. While it is true that they have decreased by 1,000 units, since we settled, both the people waiting for first judgment and the people waiting for final judgment, it is also true that compared to the indications of the law that this branch of Parliament has also approved, the results are not up to expectations and this for a reason - it is not mentioned and this is a sign of the guarantee sui generis that often exists in our country - because the large part of this audience, unlike in the past, is composed mainly of people who have committed street crimes. The Forces of Order are doing a more intense job (then we need to discuss whether this job really increases the degree of security, but they are doing a more intense job). This means that inmates who are awaiting the first judgment of this category are increased, but these people who could also use the housekeepers, in truth, cannot do so for the simple reason that they do not have a home - to a large extent it is non-EU people - and this leads to an objective disparity: the judge assigns or does not assign a penalty not according to the behaviour, but the material conditions of that person. We are doing a job - just yesterday I met representatives of some important realities of private society - to verify the possibility of realizing residences in which in some way people waiting for first judgment can benefit from the legal forecasts when they are deprived of a home; this is also to improve the possibility of control over the issues raised. True, we've run out of electronic bracelets and new bracelets haven't arrived yet. However, I would like to point out one aspect to those who raised this question: that Parliament - not myself, because I was not yet Minister at the time - decided that the management of the electronic bracelet should compete with the Ministry of the Interior, which recently launched a European competition of which we are still waiting for the outcome. Senator Malan is right: we cannot resign ourselves to any kind of judicial error. But we must also consider - at least I always start from this consideration - that the criminal trial, like every human activity, is fallible. I am not among those who believe that any kind of investigation must be sacred, however, carried out with the limited instruments available to man. What we need to ask ourselves, and perhaps reconsidering (even a little) the previous positions, is if ours is not overall a system that protects from judicial errors more than many other systems. That is why I am defending the two degrees of judgment provided for in our order. And I find it extravagant the voices that rise whenever in second degree a person has been acquitted after being convicted in first degree; or even the opposite. If this did not happen, it would not be clear why two degrees of judgment should be envisaged. I believe that we should re-evaluate the constitutional model of justice that our country has in relation to the things that have been said in previous years, because I continue to think it is among the most advanced. I see many limitations, but as Churchill said for democracy: it is a system that has many flaws, but all the others are worse. For me all the other examples, often referred to as a reference of efficiency and speed of the process, do not always have this content. I think that often only one of our externalities makes us take as reference models that from the point of view of guarantees I believe should not teach anything to the founders who have given us that scaffolding. It is not true that civil liability has changed nothing. I did not expect from civil liability an explosion in the number of proceedings, as was said by many at the time, nor a limitation in the autonomy of the judiciary; I expected a simple thing that we cannot measure with numbers: a judge today knows that, in the face of inexcusable negligence, he is not before three degrees of judgment to check whether he should be subjected to merit assessment, as was the case with the so-called filter. Today the judge knows that in the case of that violation he is subject to a merit assessment, like any other citizen. We do not know how much it affects the level of deterrence and how it affects this type of institution; it cannot be measured. We do not know how much this type of institution affects at the level of deterrence; nor can we measure how it affects. However, it is something that in some way changes the system of judicial control, and I believe that this is a step forward which allows the framework to be improved, without compressing the autonomy of the judiciary, which cannot be put on the same footing as other professions, because it plays a different role and function. I claim that my Ministry has played an important role, always in this field, in the field of inspection without sensationalism. We have tried to overcome the idea of spot interventions, linked to individual events. We have tried to do systematic investigations, for example by sector. It has been the subject of our attention, for example, to all sections and preventive measures in our country. For example, the functioning of the bankruptcy sections of civil courts, where many opaque events had developed over the course of time, has been the subject of attention. We have tried to focus our activity mainly on the most serious violations. I have to say, overall, to give a judgment on disciplinary matters, that this type of activity works more than you can tell. If there is one point to make, it is often that the pronunciation of the Supreme Council of the judiciary arrives too long after the time when the wrongdoing is reported. I believe that this is an element that takes away the strength of this instrument of intervention. The database of minors exists, it has been activated in recent weeks with the completion of the Sigma network, which has connected all the courts of minors. I have not neglected in my report the theme of tension, dialectic and controversy with the National Association of Judges, Senator Mineo, because I forgot about it, but because if I have to make a list of the things that happened this year, I do not think it is one of the most important issues. This is not due to a lack of regard for the National Association of Judges, to which I have always paid great attention, but because I frankly believe that the issue of the dispute, which may be relevant to the statute of magistrates, is not a fundamental issue for the functioning of justice. I'm trying to explain why. I was asked from what point of view the advance of retirement compared to a law that had been wanted by the center-right, the one that brought retirement to seventy-five years, created a cover of staff and how we are trying to address this issue. We try to address this issue by increasing the number of recruits, increasing the number of contests. That's the answer. They then came to determine some problems, on which we discussed with the then President of the Council Renzi, in a meeting with the National Association of Judges. On that occasion three questions were asked, four indeed, but one is not the subject of discussion because not yet being examined the rule that provides the time limit for investigations there is no answer on that point. The question of staff has been raised. When we met we had promised 1000 extra units of stationery; at present we have banned a competition for 2000 units. We have been asked to change the rule concerning young people. A rule that requires new magistrates to spend at least four years before applying for a transfer. I would point out that in the rest of the public administration it is five years before the transfer is requested. I wanted that rule, because after having turned most of the judicial offices in difficulty, I found that a fundamental problem is the excessive turnover of the magistrates. In order to decrease the tension however with the ANM, we have given willingness to revise that norm, which in fact has been revised. The Government has tabled an amendment to the so-called one thousand extensions to postpone the implementation of that rule. Only the question of retirement remains. That is all there is to it. I believe - and I say this with all due respect - that there is a disproportion between the reactions that have taken place and the subject of the dispute, bearing in mind that in the meantime the Government and the President-in-Office of the Council have changed. These are the terms of the matter. I want to reiterate my commitment; I have already sent a draft law to the Presidency of the Council on the issue of eco-compensation, which I consider to be a feature of the government's activity. I believe that there is now an inequality in the relationship between professions and large financial and economic players, which is unacceptable and the levels of compression of the professional's autonomy dictated by the dominant positions that I believe must be countered. I want to dedicate a final thought to a subject which has been raised and which I raised by starting my speech: the reform of the criminal process. That reform is the result of a Study Commission which was set up before the establishment of the previous Government and this Government. I refer to the Commission chaired by the current first President of Cassazione Canzio. In that Commission were the criminal chambers, the representatives of universities and the judiciary. There was a review of all the elements that could somehow deflate the criminal trial and it was done by overcoming a derby that often characterizes the relationship between the judiciary and criminal lawyers. If you go to a criminal convention, they tell you that the criminal trial becomes faster by compressing the time given to the judiciary to carry out a series of activities. If you go to a magistrates' conference, they tell you that times are running out of time by reducing the time available to lawyers to carry out their business. It has finally found that delicate balance, which I claim as a success not mine because - I repeat - it is a job done previously, which would finally lead to a criminal trial that improves its performance. We will give details in the next few days, but the process is improving both from the time point of view and from the point of view of the number of litigation. And this could really give a definitive impetus to an exit from the crisis in the process. This work also addressed the issue of limitation, in terms other than those covered by the draft law and then also the proposal that will come to the Assembly. In this path we have taken into account different positions, we have tried to find a compromise between the different forces of majority, even taking into account some positions of opposition. However, I would like to say that the intervention on prescription has a moral and symbolic value for the following reason. If it were even just one process that goes into flames because of a serious fact, in the face of the beginning of time, it would be a defeat for the state. I believe, however, that most of the prerequisites for the maturity of the prescription are due to organisational issues. I say this because, by an analysis of the different districts, we discover that there are districts where the prescriptions reach 30% of the treated business and offices in which the prescriptions are at 1% or 2%, which is physiological in a system of mandatory prosecution. This makes me say that the most important intervention on prescription is not only done by changing the prescription, but is done by modifying the process. If we are able to build a process that is deflated; if we are able to build a process in which we avoid those rampant passages that currently inflate and complicate the procedural course, we give the most complete answer to avoid that the prescription reaches levels of pathological character. That is why, in conclusion, I am continuing to call for the draft law on the reform of the criminal process to be adopted rapidly, because I really believe that this can be a qualitative step that allows the next Minister of Justice to present a report in which many of the problems that have characterized our system can be definitively considered behind us. [[Applause from the PD, AP (Ncd-CpI) and Aut (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT) and PSI-MAIE Groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-742.ana.u48	I communicate that the Senate delegation to the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe will be formed, at the annual session of 2017, by the members currently in office. I would remind you that the delegation consists of the following senators. Actual members: Bernini, Bertuzzi, Catalfo, Chiti, Corsini, Divina, Gambaro, Giro, Santangelo. Alternate members: Amoruso, Cervellini, De Pietro, Fazzone, Lucherini, Munerato, Orellana, Puppato, Verducci.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-742.ana.u49	We shall now proceed to the vote on the motions for resolutions.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-742.ana.u50	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-742.ana.u51	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-742.ana.u52	Albertini (AP (Ncd-CpI)). Mr President, I begin by saying with great conviction that our Group voted in favour of the motion tabled by our Parent Company and those of the majority. 12:36 a.m. (Following ALBERTINI). This is not only for an uncritical acceptance of a political line, but because they convinced us of the Minister's statements and the very objective and certainly compelling description of the activity carried out in these more than three years of mandate leading perhaps the most complex, delicate and found in more critical conditions than others. When the famous British Prime Minister Churchill said that there are three types of lies (lies, damned lies and statistics), he may have ignored - but that was not his concept - that the numbers expressing the facts are much more stubborn than the statements or comments that can be developed on the facts themselves. The Minister's description of the action taken over the three-year period is an element of comfort, albeit in a still dramatically negative context. The interest that has developed towards international jurisdiction through the strengthening of all cooperation agreements with jurisdictions of other countries is an important front to counter crime scenarios at all levels (economic-financial, terrorist); disturbing and dramatic scenarios that require a dilated intervention, beyond the borders of our territory. Even the establishment of the European Public Prosecutor, on which we have made an unconcluding intervention, is a commendable element. It has been rightly said that the expansion of criminal jurisdiction introduces psychological but unrealistic security elements, because very often the jurisdiction has different times and far from that effectiveness of intervention for minor crimes that can better be carried out through administrative acts more than judicial. We have found that civil justice litigation has been greatly reduced from 5.2 million cases of inequitable litigation to 3.8 million; offices have reduced their burden by 5 percent. Only the Cassazione, for analytical explanations that have been given, had an increase. A great deal has been done on alternative forms of jurisdiction to resolve cases of litigation and is a comforting 10 percent more than mediation. Even the dramatic case of the criminal trial has had a reduction in litigation to an impressive figure of 3,229,000 cases, but 7 percent less than the figure found. All this was the result of conduct, consistent action and was not a random event and caused by events independent of government action. The transformation into administrative offences, financial penalties instead of criminal sanctions; the appeal, which has fallen in the average of the litigation; interventions on the efficiency of the judicial offices with a saving of 1.7 billion euros; the reduction of the costs of the services are laudable interventions that this Government and this Minister have managed to realize. The push for the dissemination and implementation of the telematic process continues. In his reply, the Minister came to point out even the number of computers or servers distributed (hoping that there are also training courses to be used), the reduction of holidays and the increase of officials, as well as 4,500 extra chancellors and administrative, as well as competitions for 1,100 magistrates; the reform of the honorary judiciary; the revision of the judicial geography, dated with the beginning of the unity of Italy; inspection activities other than those historicalized for details, but more focused on denied civil rights or on the dysfunctions of substance; and so on other procedures concerning the aspects of the competition area and of the failures, which must be closed in a short time so that the economy does not suffer. The intervention reformer has developed also in the field of the criminal, where the point of the prescription has found a right balance in the law that we are going to approve, with the criticalities that we know, but with the conviction to arrive in port. The government's willingness to intervene from a regulatory point of view has also been made known on the very sensitive issue of interceptions. With regard to another of the tragic problems of our country, especially in the field of civil rights, with the judgment Torreggiani we reduced the number of prisoners in three years by 16.000, increasing the provision of spaces for the imprisonment of more than 4.000 places, substantially bringing to a balanced level of 50% the relationship between the executions inside the prison and the external ones of the measures of the judicial authority. There are also other equally commendable speeches, but I would like to reserve the last few minutes for the critical part, because it is precisely by working together, Minister, that I think it is worth pointing out this point as well. The first reform I would like to propose to your attention is symbolic, but then I will come to the practical proposal. The praiseworthy phrase "the law" is the same for everyone, placed behind the court of judges, I would like it to be placed also in the eyes of the judges and in the offices of the magistrates investigators. I would like to recall the famous episode of Alessandro and the pirate, when the Macedonian fleet imprisoned him and he was brought before the highest authority of the time (then there was no distinction between the judicial and political powers). The pirate asks himself: In what have I done differently from you, Alexander, making conquests with my ships? Maybe you have more than that. The answer that Saint Augustine then gives in one of his books is that the State has the legitimate powers of the use of force, but it does so in accordance with justice. I'll get to the point. Well the staff and the increase of officials and magistrates (in addition, the indices of GDP relative to the population of our country are not unbalanced as expenditure on justice compared to compatible comparisons), but there is one point where we are different: no magistrate can be subjected to disciplinary procedure for evaluation of the evidence and for interpretation of the rules. We have handed over for life the infallibility by law to a certain laudable category, because it has passed a competition and therefore has established its competence, but we do not know how morally consistent over time with this scenario, which gives us all, even very civilized people, a picture that can transform us into people who act with discretion or will. In the same way - and this is the other side of the coin - it is necessary that the prize for management capacity, for doing justice properly, for investigations that arrive at a sentence of condemnation and not to indiscriminate absolutions (because based on inconsistent elements of accusation), and therefore the scoreboard of judicial activity is not entrusted to the currents and cross-power between the categories of justice (or jurisdiction, rather than justice). On the other hand, it is necessary that, with appropriate and legislative measures, the CPMP should also be able to apply to its reference category the merit and condemnation of the ability to do and to do well and for the mistakes made. This is what I entrust to the rest of your work, Minister, with the hope that you will be able to cooperate with this outcome. [[Applause from the AP Group (Ncd-CpI).]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-742.ana.u53	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-742.ana.u54	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-742.ana.u55	IN MAY (CoR). Mr Minister, frankly, you always put me in trouble for a very simple reason: I recognise an intellectual honesty which objectively, even with regard to the method and the way you operate your function, makes it difficult for me to say at this time that the vote of our Group will be against it. I am simply saying this because the handbook of good intentions, which you have stated in this House today, is often in contradiction with the numbers representing the work that is being done. I fully understand that the justice system is similar to our public debt: when interventions are made, travel is so minimal that it is difficult to highlight them. You are right in this House to warn us of a political confrontation on the choices that are being made. I often find that its very function is in conflict with what the results of the choices made by its majority express. I would like to mention one case for everyone: in the Justice Commission, we are proceeding with the analysis of the reform of the civil process, and the measure that is being asked of us by the Government, I find it basically - as authoritative members of the legal world that we are in the process of increasing - in contradiction to expectations. What do I mean by that? Very often in the hearings we are told that there is no improvement in the justice system by intervening on the reforms of the code and that perhaps it would be better to look at the organizational functioning. From this point of view, the efforts you and your Dicastery are making are objectively very interesting. They are, however, rendered useless by the measures which are being transmitted to us within the Commissions. I'm making a joke: I wouldn't want them to be, as always, ad canzium measures. You have first told an example that is a glimpse of the life of our country: if you go to the meetings with the magistrates, these will say that the times of justice are lengthened by the work that is done by the lawyer; if you go to the meetings of lawyers, the latter will say that the times are longer for the malfunctioning of the system of the judiciary. As part of the reform of the civil system, my draft law is included, on which I invite you to take a third position, which the Minister of Justice should have. With it I call for the reform of Article 152 of the Code of Civil Procedure, which provides for a difference in terms: while lawyers are forced to peremptive terms, magistrates are forced to normal terms. Even if the magistrates were forced to peremptive times, this could perhaps be a reason for speeding up the civil justice system. For this reason, I continue to represent the difficulties we have with civil justice every time and I am pleased that you appreciate another fundamental fact: the malfunctioning of civil justice is an extremely important example for us of the economic costs that result and you could certainly facilitate the country system if your times were made faster and more credible. Then there is another substantial difference on the way of conceiving criminal justice: it gives a rather different, but extremely important, photograph, also the intervention of Senator Dirindin, when he says - I remember it as an example to underline the differences of opinion with which he will have to confront himself even within his majority - that some care about the health of those who are taken from personal freedom. It is a way of seeing the left and of course a different interpretation of justice than those who belong to our side, whose view of prisoners is instead that of people to whom we look carefully, because it is the health of the free citizens who are put at risk by those who are dedicated to criminals. And this is fundamental and I mark it for a very simple reason: a Minister of Justice should pose the problem of how the justice system has lived in our country. And you can't help but share that what the public feels is that respect for justice is no longer a value. That is what we need to do, and it is on this point that we are putting our most attentive attention to it. To conclude, Minister, I am also following what you have represented before: I am perfectly convinced that the inspection capacity which your Government has put in place is far superior to that of the governments that preceded it, but the result - allow me, Minister - is irrelevant, because - as you said - it is necessary to reform the Supreme Council of the judiciary. There is an emblematic case that I have brought to your attention and that I have continued to follow: the case of the court of Trani. In the court of Trani things have happened unspeakable and those responsible have been judged by the Supreme Council of the judiciary and are still standing in their place. If all the deserving operations that your Government intends to put in place are then frustrated in their final result, then we are even more convinced that our vote will only be against. [[Applause from the CoR Group and Senator Giovanardi.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-742.ana.u56	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-742.ana.u57	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-742.ana.u58	STEFANI (LN-Aut). Mr President, we have heard the Minister's reply and we particularly appreciate the seriousness and professionalism with which he has responded to our comments and considerations. Justice - as Mr Orlando himself said - must be managed regardless of the electorate's consent. Justice is an extremely serious matter, which certainly cannot be the victim of either populism or the pursuit of popular consensus. Unfortunately, justice provides for a classically unpopular rule that is the crime, for which there is a judgment in court and the application of a penalty. That is why the administration of justice must be followed with particular seriousness. However, your Report and your reply did not convince us on those issues that, as a Group of the North League, we have highlighted and reported with particular attention in recent years. There was the problem - let us remember, because now it seems no longer to make news in newspapers and other media - of the prison overcrowding, for which real measures have been adopted that - whether you want it or not - are defined as "empty prisons." With those rules, as an alternative to imprisonment, alternative prison sentences have been provided for, solutions that allow a criminal not to immediately access the measure of detention. Don't we want to call them empty jails? Let's define them, however, of the benefits that have been granted with the aim of avoiding the problem of prison overcrowding. It seems like a fashionable subject at the moment, but instead we want to keep remembering it: they were emerging measures. If the emergency fails, we need to restructure the criminal system. We believe that when we examine the reform of the criminal process - it has been started, but it has been suspended - measures should be taken to this end. That is why we in our resolution call for increased penalties for, for example, house theft and robberies. As we have also suggested, we also want the measures to be tightened up for the sale of minor narcotic substances and that the draft law, approved in the House, which precedes the exclusion for the most serious crimes of the possibility of access to the abbreviated judgment; a measure approved by the House and then stranded in the Senate probably for a different political will. And, in fact, in the reform of the criminal trial this part has disappeared. We hope that it can be reintroduced and we also ask for it in our resolution. Another issue that has been stranded is the reform of the institute of self-defense: the discussion began in the House; it has been discussed and our initial proposal basically provided for a form of presumption of self-defense whenever the domicile is violated at the time when someone enters the house, in possession of weapons or in a group. In that case, too, our initial proposal was weakened: the solution proposed to the House was intended to completely degrade our intention to modify this institution. Even in that case, however, the speech has stranded and we, on the other hand, believe that it must be resumed and not in order to ensure that every citizen is endowed with weapons until he reaches a sort of far west to defend himself, but in order to get the criminals the message that the property is sacred and that when you enter a home you pay serious consequences. With regard to the institution of the forecast of the crime, it is correct what the Minister says, namely that it is not true that the more crimes he predicts you are punished, in fact, sometimes an inflation of the measure of the crime or even the severity of the crime itself does not have the effects that would be desired. We mean that the prediction of the crime and the certainty of the penalty must cause the criminal to make choices or not and Italy certainly must not become a place where he may think he has a threshold of lesser punishableness compared to other realities. The serious issue that we continue to highlight and which we insist on is immigration, which also concerns the area of justice and which, on the contrary, must be treated as a single issue by the Ministries of Justice and the Interior. To make a joke, it can be said that by now Italy has almost lost the apparition of crime: of Italian criminals, now, there are few. We must also try to work on the issue of immigration and therefore of foreigners who escape control of our territorial reality and commit crimes. With regard to the question of agreements with foreign countries, allow me to make just one note, Minister: it is clear to us that Minister Castelli also drew up an agreement with Albania precisely in order to carry out the repatriation of Albanian prisoners sentenced to Italy who would have served the sentence in their country of origin. On this profile, too, we allow ourselves to make this consideration. The same was true of Romania, albeit with a different profile. For these reasons we insist on our resolution, so that it can be accepted by all, because it contains some fundamental points in the absence of which we believe we must reject, with all due respect, the report you have made. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-742.ana.u59	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-742.ana.u60	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-742.ana.u61	FALANGA (ALA-SCLP). Mr President, I would like to take the opportunity of the explanation of vote to make a point of order. In general discussion I mentioned the lack of an efficient inspection system and I was referring to the Neapolitan judges on the issue of the suicide woman. It is clear, however, that I did not intend to assert or claim the responsibility of anyone. I simply say that inspection is useful and necessary to dissipate any doubt that may involve a magistrate. Minister, we shall abstain from voting on the motion for a resolution by your majority, as we shall abstain from voting on the resolutions tabled by other parliamentary groups. And we are doing this for a very simple reason: you, Minister, have had a long time to organize your report; we, for the truth, and I in particular, have had ten minutes before and five minutes now to reply. The tight deadlines do not put me in a position to organize a resolution that I would have liked to bring to Parliament's attention, so, having been unable to properly deal with the broad subject, it is clear that I have no other way but to abstain. However, Minister, I must make a comment following your reply. You've talked a lot about the prison system. Minister, she makes a comparison of those elements that see us as having an advantage over other countries, but then fails to indicate the other elements that do not see us ahead of other countries, but rather behind them. Let me give you a simple example of prisons. The prison in Catania has an overcrowding of 170 percent. A funding of EUR 32 million is ready to start the work of a new prison structure, but there are bodies of our ministries that - alas - brake, and who knows for what reasons. I am not generally a misthinker, Minister, but, when a competition already won by a company is blocked and the work is no longer carried out, I have some doubts that that undertaking is probably not acceptable to anyone. You must pay attention to this. You referred to protective custody, which I have just presented to you and for which I have deposited a draft law amending Article 274 of the Code of Criminal Procedure; you have given me an answer, if you will allow me, clever, intelligent, timely and even true. She said that, since the arrested often do not have a place of residence, as in the case of foreigners, it is clear that the judge must necessarily opt for arrests in prison. But she did not consider that the reforms of 2013 and 2015 in Article 274 aimed at overcoming those mental preprinters of the judges, the formula that says that, since the crime is serious, you cannot give house arrests. We went in that direction, but we could not overcome these mental preprinters and hence my regulatory intervention to try to remedy them. I hope that you will be aware of the futility of the measures we have adopted. For this reason, Minister, we await more concrete answers from you on these important issues. For the time being, we are abstaining, but we hope that we can still vote on your initiatives, which we share, appreciate and which may be a point of limitation. As far as the subject of the prescription is concerned, Minister, I have given you the means to say that the trials for corruption and in any case for crimes against the public administration - since they are among those concerned - must be celebrated immediately. If you share this, then you must tell me why you want the lifesaver of an additional lengthening of the prescription. It is an iniquity, an ambiguity that I do not understand. I want the corrupt to be condemned in fast times. I don't want the crimes to be prescribed. However, Minister, at a time when you are still insisting on extending the limitation period for such crimes, even less than the original initiative, you are saying that your justice system is not in a position to respond. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator Falanga, I've already given you a lot more time than you have. FALANGA (ALA-SCLP). Please, Mr President, be tolerant. We have a law for which in a few days a senator could leave the Senate because a magistrate, who was his political opponent, condemned him, moreover with an administrative sanction, with a political sanction. Minister, you are allowing a magistrate politician to apply a political rule against his opponent. And the Senate will allow this disaster, because there is still one provision in the Chamber drawers - it seems that the first signatory is Nitto Palma - that sees a regulation for the magistrates who, engaged in politics, fall into the roles. PRESIDENT. - The debate is Thank you, Senator Falanga, but you spoke twice as long as you were given. [[Applause from the ALA-SCCLP Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-742.ana.u62	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-742.ana.u63	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-742.ana.u64	BUEMI (Aut (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT)-PSI-MAIE). Minister, I rise to announce my Group's vote in favour of your report and the resolution of the majority of my fellow Members, Mr Zanda, Mr Bianconi and Mr Zeller. I hope, Minister, that next year too you, as Minister of the current Government in office, will report to this House, because - as you said and as we know - there are many measures that need to be approved and we believe that the approved process, at least by this House, should not be interrupted. I take this opportunity to represent the difficulties faced in times of crisis for honest Italians - periods of great economic crisis - the issues of prison, its conditions and resources now to be allocated. However, a civilised country knows that it is an indispensable issue even in times of crisis and financial difficulties: the level of civilization cannot be entrusted to the simple evaluation of demagogic opportunities. The prison circuits you have mentioned, differentiated circuits, execution of the penalty very aimed at the individual subject, in particular the strengthening of the execution of the external penalty, without neglecting - as I said in my initial speech - the issue of prison construction, are certainly the roads towards which to proceed. However, I would like, Minister, to draw your attention to one issue, provided that colleagues leave you free. (Senator Falanga talks with Minister Orlando.) PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Colleagues, this is not the time for a meeting with the Minister. Senator Falanga, you already spoke too much when you were in your place. Now it disturbs the Minister too! BUEMI (Aut (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT)-PSI-MAIE). Mr President, Mr Falanga, as well as taking minutes that were not his responsibility... PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator Buemi, speak to the presidency. Now the Minister will only listen to you. BUEMI (Aut (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT)-PSI-MAIE). I understand the Minister's courtesy is not to send his colleague to that country, but... Minister, it is necessary to exercise disciplinary action against the magistrates more quickly, as others have already said and as you have probably mentioned. This is a matter on which I am particularly attentive. It is not possible that we will be late on matters concerning other citizens, particularly those who are called upon to judge normal citizens. There are too many instrumental referrals to the hearings: the citizen waits too long, often in the civil sector, but also in the criminal field. We must keep an eye on the bankruptcy courts: Minister, you said so, you mentioned it in your reply, but there are too many behavioural anomalies. There is a delay that leads to the deterioration of assets and consequently damage to citizens, both debtors and creditors. I would like to draw your attention, Minister, to the advisers of the magistrate, who cannot be chosen on the basis of the solution to the problem before him. This happens too often. I know this is difficult to demonstrate, but in camera caritatis many advisors pose the problem of a conditioning of their assessments due to the lack of office in case they propose solutions other than those expected by the magistrate who appoints them. Faced with the percentage of acquittal - I am referring to the criminal sector, of course - it is necessary to establish the principle of responsibility of the investigative authority, recalled by Senator Pagliari with whom I fully agree. Minister, it is necessary to continue and not wait for the self-reform of the Supreme Council of the judiciary and the reform of its electoral system. Minister, the reform of judicial geography has been successful, and it must be acknowledged. There are, however, some problems that need to be resolved in order to give further strength to the reform. You know the issues that have been raised by the Senate Justice Commission - and not just by this - and I expect you to pay particular attention to this issue. We must also consider the question of compensation for the defense expenses of the innocent defendant. In the face of such a large number of acquittals by the court, the problem arises of compensation by the State to those who have to bear considerable costs in defending their position of innocence. Minister, you said well, but I continue to be convinced that the lengthening of the prescription is a mistake. We need to act on the issues you have highlighted: to strengthen the organisational aspects, to develop a culture not of delaying the process, but of its conclusion, without prejudice to the principles of guarantee that are characteristic of societies and civil systems. Mr Minister, go on: there is much to be done, although much has been done. [[Applause from the Aut Group (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT) - PSI-MAIE.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-742.ana.u65	Colleagues, before listening to the other explanations of vote, I inform you that, pursuant to Article 55, paragraph 7, of the Rules of Procedure of the Senate, Senator Michela Montevecchi and the senators listed below require an urgent information from the Minister for Economic Affairs and Finance, Professor Pier Carlo Padoan, in relation to the very important letter concerning the budget of the State sent to the Government by the Vice President of the European Commission and the European Commissioner for Economic and Financial Affairs. Therefore, after the vote on the resolutions and the possible debate on this request, there will be a vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-742.ana.u66	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-742.ana.u67	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-742.ana.u68	MUSSINI (Mixed). Mr President, first of all I would like to thank the Minister because - as we are fortunately used to in the Commission too - he listens carefully and responds to the comments made on time. Perhaps he would have deserved that all of today's debate had a different ease in giving time also to evaluate the content of the various resolutions. Mr Minister, if, on the one hand, it is not my intention to question the data that is correctly collected by your Ministry, on the other, perhaps it is worth reasoning, perhaps doing so together, on what are the possible interpretations of a whole series of data. If it happens that investments are made anyway, but there is the perception, which is not sensory but measured, of citizens finding an objective difficulty in obtaining justice, it is not simply about the issue of perceived injustice, because it is clear that there are problems. There are problems with the destination of resources. And you mentioned the destination of staff from the Regions being passed into the courts. I can tell you, however, that this is not done with careful consideration and not even - even more serious - of the quality of the staff being distributed. So it happens that there is a bad distribution even between two nearby cities, which can be the City of Reggio and that of Modena. It has happened and is a problem, because it translates into the great distance that is created between the center and the periphery. It is too long a road and perhaps - since you rightly insist on the fact that the first intervention on the service of justice must be of an organisational nature - it is necessary to put under a magnifying glass the mechanisms with which the staff is destined, in addition to trying to take into account its preparation: a prepared, competent and capable of running an office is a very rare commodity. It is also evident that this is granted in individual administrations and in everyday life. Justice should not be perceived as a right that goes for census and this, unfortunately, is one of the reasons why the backward does not mean that it is disposed of, but decreases. There is certainly some economic crisis - as Mrs Stefani said just now - which leads citizens today to look to justice to a lesser extent. And this could be welcomed if we became less quarrelsome. The problem is that it is the lack of confidence in the possibility of obtaining justice, of obtaining it quickly and, sometimes, the game is not worth the candle. This is the sad conclusion that so many draw. This brings us to a number of points which we highlighted in our resolution. It leads us - for example - to a further loss of the sense of legality and effectiveness of the justice system, even then of encouragement to respect the rules. There are some aspects, Minister, which were considered very, too, fast in your report. These aspects concern precisely the sense of legality and the corruption that is still rampant. We called for a presence and attention in the commitments that we have planned, for the strengthening of the control of legality over the entire public and private economic cycle. I would remind the House that we still have the anti-mafia code, which has yet to be developed and is crucial and important. We have been excluded as a Commission of Justice from a reflection on the procurement code that will already be submitted to a corrective: instead, it would have been appropriate to involve it, because perhaps it is also a matter for the administration of justice, since there is a continuous intercourse between ANAC and those directly concerned who then have to take charge of the application of the procurement code. There is one aspect that we have set out in our resolution on which we asked for a commitment. It is clear that, for the construction of a perception of legality, the instruments available to the justice system can no longer be sufficient. We have a bill that is extremely important to us, because it is a system of protection, and it is the protection of those who report illegal conduct. It is a central issue, because it is also about the real involvement of the citizen in the control, a healthy control and not - as unfortunately has been wanted in the debate - the delaction, which is another thing. We are talking about protection, and we hope that it will be seen as a qualifying aspect, even though, unfortunately, the debate has been taken away from the Commission by justice. Mr. Minister, this is an issue that your Government should be particularly concerned about. When it comes to red flags, these are intercepted by those who see them closely; and if they are not protected, they will obviously not feel able to make them aware and to collaborate in the construction of a widespread legality. You have rightly referred to the draft law n° 2067, which contains a broad delegation on the penitentiary system, which we would have encouraged, in our commitments, to ensure that the project went ahead, even quickly, and was then supported. Minister, all the equipment you have rightly mentioned, which is also a sign of cultural evolution in the vision of imprisonment, that is, all the external execution of the sentence and all the instruments are certainly very useful, but they point to the fact that we must use an external system to that of justice: we are talking about communities, we are talking about projects and, therefore, about professionals who must be put in a position to work intensively and with adequate resources for everything to work. You said in your reply that we need to treat prisoners individually and that a type of judiciary, that of surveillance, is currently facing very serious difficulties. The judiciary, like the juvenile judiciary, is not a place where you get a career, it is clear, and it is also clear that this certainly does not call for a particularly strong voice or a lot of investment, in terms of training and also attention. It is a matter of concern to us, because individualised treatment of prisoners can only take place if the judiciary is adequately provided with resources and properly valued: a point that we have put in our resolution and that we are asking for it to be achieved. In conclusion, we are very concerned about what we see in the draft law on the reform of the civil process. We are concerned that all juvenile justice can be the subject of a reform that certainly does not reward what you yourself, Minister, say, namely the ability to manage reeducation in a path of education and prevention that goes beyond and comes before imprisonment. Finally, the closure of judicial psychiatric hospitals is very far away and we are in the middle of a discussion that needs to be deepened. We ask you, Minister, to take this very seriously. [[Applause from Senator Simeoni.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-742.ana.u69	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-742.ana.u70	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-742.ana.u71	BUCCARELLA (M5S). Minister, I begin by recalling a passage of your replies, when, with reference to the deflation of civil litigation found in ministerial statistics (except for the Court of Cassation), you argued that there is no relation between this phenomenon and the increase in the unified contribution provided - certainly not by you, this Government or the previous one - by the governments that preceded it. You will probably know as well as I do that this is not the case, as I would like to point out that already in the 2013 report to the DEF - and there was another government - there was a clear confession that the increase in the unified contribution was also intended to achieve the effect of discouraging citizens from being able to protect their rights by increasing the cost of access to civil justice as well as administrative justice. This is a fact which, together with what we have called judicial desertification, has obviously contributed greatly to achieving that deflagrating effect, so I do not really know whether it is worth joying. Moreover, I also wanted to challenge them - as far as I am aware - the truth of the fact that in other European countries the unified contribution is higher than that of Italy, also considering exclusively the tables of the unified contribution of administrative justice, therefore of the one relating to the regularity of contracts. [[Comments by Minister Orlando.]] I am not charging you, because I have said that they are not measures taken by the current Government or by what preceded it, but having done nothing and having no intention of doing anything in this direction, obviously they make their own behaviours and political choices already taken. In administrative justice in Italy there is a fixed unified contribution of 300 euros, which can reach 2,000, 4,000 or 6,000 euros in order to obtain the suspension of an administrative measure. In countries like Estonia, Slovakia, Hungary and Bulgaria, we are talking about unified contributions of around a few tens of euros; in France, the fiscal stamp of 35 euros was abolished in 2013; in the United Kingdom there is a maximum of 1,900 pounds, in Belgium it is 175 euros; in Luxembourg, Sweden and Finland it is free of contribution; in Ireland the maximum is 125 euros and so on. I don't go any further, but let's just say what it is, since we know it. That is an argument that would require not only his personal attention, but that of the Government, which must decide to devote a percentage of GDP far greater to the justice sector than today. Coming to us, in the annual report under discussion, we are obliged to take stock of the legislative activity in the field of justice in the past year and we must note that the main legislative actions of 2016 are exclusively summarized in the law for the introduction of the crime of street murder, in the delegation of the honorary judiciary, in the introduction of the crime of depiracy, in the new provisions on the victims of crime - which are also called for by Community infringement procedures - and in the unhappy rule that provided the detention in service of only magistrates who carry out apical functions, superior directives or directives at the Court of Cassation and the general prosecutor who have not completed the seventy-first year of age. Beyond this we complain and stigmatize the fact that there has still been a lack of response regarding the matter of justice in relation to the current needs of the country. Wanting to recall a study by the World Bank, which has already been called up before me, Italy is in the hundred and eleventh place on the doing business this year. This analysis is clearly due both to the situation of economic stagnation and investment in general, but in the Italian context, in the absence of a coherent and incisive reform of the fight against corruption and the use of illicit capital, we continue to think, and insist at the cost of being monotonous, of the need to adopt means of contrast to the corrupting phenomenon (not already increasing of penalties, I am not talking about that), as requested on every occasion by the 5 Star Movement, strengthening the so-called Daspus for the corrupt, the perpetual ban from public offices and to contract with the public administration in case of final condemnation judgment beyond the cases already provided by the current article 317- bis of the penal code. I am also thinking of the introduction of the figure of the undercover agent, for which you will remember, Minister Orlando, two years ago an agenda proposed by the 5 Star Movement was approved, in which the Government undertook to assess the opportunity. We are waiting for this evaluation to be completed and this instrument finally introduced, on which I recall that on several occasions you have raised some concerns. We believe, however, that the solicitation, which is not only of the 5 Star Movement, but comes from many areas of those who are at the forefront of the fight against corruption and illegality, is a very powerful instrument in this respect, as well as the approval, which in this case concerns Parliament, of the discipline on the so-called whistleblowing, which is currently being examined by the 1st Commission of this branch of Parliament. In the matter of prescription, we continue to think that the proposal contained in the bill n. 2067 to the examination of the Senate is a warm cloth (maybe we were the first to define it this way); I refer to the increase of three years total suspension of the prescription terms. This warm cloth may be able to cover some process, which will not be prescribed; but it remains the political problem of how to implement a sacrosanct principle, which we defend. In fact, we are not the ones who want endless trials, which last 20 years; on the contrary, we believe that a pronunciation of acquittal or condemnation must come as soon as possible. So it is inevitable that, in order to achieve this effect, beyond regulatory or legal changes, money and energy must be invested for the strengthening of the justice system in instrumental terms and also of the availability of personnel. For this reason, we believe that today, in its present state, a provision which sees the cessation of the limitation period at least from the sentence of conviction of first instance can automatically have a deflagrant effect compared to those who cultivate the criminal litigation legitimately aiming at limitation. This would, on the other hand, automatically favour, in all cases where there is no innocence to be defended in court, the adoption of alternative definition systems, with abbreviated judgments or with the application of the penalty at the request of the parties. On this occasion I would also like to point out to you, Minister, and to your colleagues in this House that there is another measure in the area of justice to which we should pay the greatest attention. In fact, in recent months there has been a recent phenomenon in many Italian courts, in the bankruptcy and enforcement sections: by virtue of an application practice of an article that we have recently modified (last year), with Decree-Law No. 59 of 2016, it happens that, from the fourth bankruptcy auction onwards, having deserted the previous ones, real estate of companies and citizens are put on sale at a price substantially equal to 20% or even less of the estimated price. That is, an estimated 100 asset, on the basis of auction rebates and through an interpretation of the second paragraph of Article 591 of the Code of Civil Procedure, is sold to 20 or even less, to the detriment of the creditors, to the grave detriment of the debtors, who remain such and who also lose their real estate for the benefit of those who, perhaps with speculative purposes and finding space where there can be opaque situations, take advantage of this situation. We must put a stop to this by means of regulatory intervention. If the Government wanted to undertake it, we would not fail to give our support more quickly, in order to avoid this further clava that is coming down on companies, which are in a well-known situation of suffering. Finally, I would like to make an invitation. In our motion for a resolution, Minister, we put on the table another subject on which we have not reasoned and on which we would like to reason: I am referring to the opportunity to review the ban on the reform in peius for appeals in criminal matters. It would be advisable to start talking about this in reasonable terms, because this could have a deflagrating effect whenever the criminal appeals are made for the sole purpose of achieving the objective of the ripening of the prescription, with an increase of litigation that perhaps takes away space from all those appeals in which the legitimate demands of the defence risk being compressed precisely because of the excessive judicial burden. That is why I wish you every success and I hope that you will also be able to listen to our demands. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-742.ana.u72	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-742.ana.u73	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-742.ana.u74	CALIENDO (FI-PdL XVII). Mr President, Minister, the Forza Italia Group will abstain from voting on all the motions for resolutions and has not tabled any proposals for its signature, in line with what has been said before. Minister, we hope that, in the months that are missing at the end of the parliamentary term, the parliamentary majority - I am not referring to you - will acquire a capacity for dialogue with the opposition. There are some things to correct; some I have already mentioned and others I will talk about later. When I criticize your report and your response, it will not be destructive, but constructive criticism, with a view to finding the right solution together. 13:36 p.m. (Follows CALIENDO). Let's start with what you said about access to justice. Minister, I also know that the unified contribution is different in other European countries, but you know better than I do that in other European countries the per capita income of citizens is much higher than that of Italian citizens. If that per capita income of Italians is broken down in the southern regions, you will find situations of poverty that do not really allow access to justice. We must take charge of this. We're responsible. We cannot say that it is the responsibility of the administration, because we are responsible if we do not intervene on these matters and issues. The second issue you faced was the bracelet. Minister, the other day in the Justice Commission, it appeared that some judges grant house arrests provided that the bracelet exists. That's incorrect! Today's debate should have been a debate on ideas because this creates culture. A judge knows very well that he must put a citizen under house arrest because he is entitled to it according to his assessment, certainly not according to ours, and however, he cannot condition this judgment, because the protection and guarantee of control with bracelets can be used only for certain situations and for certain people, not for all. If that were the case, we would no longer have a chance to apply the rule of the bracelet. We have a few issues before us. First of all, there is the reform of the civil process on which I would like to say a few things. In the various hearings we found almost unanimous between universities, lawyers and judges on the need to create the so-called family court, which is not the one provided for by the provision approved in the House. The family court needs autonomy and independence from others. While the problem at the judicial level has been resolved with a district section, but also creating problems with respect to the district one on the specialty of the judges, as far as the prosecutor was concerned nothing has been done. We have the opportunity to work for about a month, Minister, and then reopen the dialogue with the majority on these issues. Remember that it is not a matter of spending because we have protected interests: when the blanket is short, it must be taken into account that we must give preference to protected interests. In this case, interests are children and family interests and must be better protected than trade issues. As far as the Court of Cassation is concerned, I very much appreciated, perhaps he remembers, the fact that you said in the course of the question time that, if possible, the modification of the tax section of the Court of Cassation would be included in the reform of the civil proceedings. With my colleague Senator Moscardelli we have tabled an amendment to the reform of the tax process to amend this section of the Court of Cassation, ensuring that there can be an acceleration. In fact, you know better than I do that if you look at the number of appeal proceedings of the tax sections or appeals by cassation, it turns out a percentage lower than that of the ordinary judiciary. If then there is a bottle neck, a funnel at the Court of Cassation, that means that the organization is wrong. As you can see, I am only trying to pick up a few points which I would like to have been merely a discussion, a confrontation between us. As far as the arbitration panel is concerned, I mention this not because I have presented a draft law with many of my colleagues from all the Groups in this regard but because it has been assessed by the lawyers' associations as the only instrument that can reduce the civilian load by up to 30%. Why not find a solution then? The only possible solution would be to provide for minimum amounts to be paid to the referees and at the same time to turn them into tax credits. In fact, only then will we have the chance to guarantee that lesser justice. In this respect, I insist that a limit should be set (although the threshold of EUR 200,000 seems to me to be an exaggeration) because this would serve to ensure justice for all. I very much appreciate your intervention on the prescription and not because we are against the prescription because these categories in justice cannot apply: there can be no position against or in favour. What is the prescription? It's not a favor to the defendant or the convicted person. It is simply respect for those minimum rules, of rights and of democracy that have existed from Roman law onward. The only fact that you did not mention, with regard to the increase in the sentence, is that the longer the time of limitation the longer the trial lasts. I'm not telling her, I'm telling her the statistics. Check how many years the bankruptcy proceedings last: the longer the limitation time, the longer the trial time is extended and we cannot keep the citizens in this limbo where we do not know whether the defendant is guilty or not, with an incredible situation of justice oscillating in interpretation. We need to give certain rules because, you know better than I do, that not only in criminal but also in civil matters, we see an interpretation that changes from day to day, with a far greater impact on legal certainty. But is it the judges' fault? No, it is ours because if we do not make certain rules and do not use the time available for a debate and the debate is closed simply because we have a majority, then there is no possibility of making a clear rule. The other evening, in the Committee on Justice, the debate led the Commission to remove a number of amendments by the majority as well. This means only one thing: we find space, in these remaining months of the legislature, to do few things but that are in the primary interest of the citizens. We intervene where dysfunctions directly affect primary rights. That is why we shall abstain from voting on all the resolutions. [[Applause from the FI-PdL XVII Group and Senator Fucksia.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-742.ana.u75	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-742.ana.u76	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-742.ana.u77	LUMIA (PD). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the report presented to us by the Minister on the state of justice in 2016 confirms that the challenge of reforming justice is open. Colleagues, it is undeniable that this legislature has opened a new phase. Everyone remember the state of the conflict, a ruinous, destructive conflict, zero sum; today the conflict is still there, it must not be underestimated but it has not prevented Parliament and the Government from launching very important reforms. The data are clear and the 2016 report that the Minister has presented to us is to indicate them; they are objective and validated indices at international level. I do not think we can be sorry that civil cases have gone from over 5 million to 3,800,000; similarly, at criminal level, we have 7% fewer trials. If we look at the prison planet, we have gone from 69,000 inmates to 54,000 - unthinkable until a few years ago. If we look at investment, ladies and gentlemen, we are talking about one and a half billion more. There are new recruitments and competitions for the judiciary and administrative staff have unlocked: 4,000 qualified young people are experiencing the positive experience of tutoring in the judicial offices. Colleagues, I would also like you to pay attention to the fact that, from 2013 to 2016, as many as 19 laws have been passed that intervene on the various aspects of the complex and vast planet justice. In 2016 alone, we passed seven laws. I remind you: the law on civil unions, the law on the fight against the caporalate, the law that introduces the street murder, the provision that introduces the crime of negationism, that of organic reform of the honorary judiciary. And again: the law of judicial assistance in criminal matters between the States of the European Union and the law that affects the trafficking of organs. As you can see, colleagues, the change of pace is undeniable and objective and this must be appreciated and recognized. Of course, feet on the ground and no triumphalism, because the path is still long. We still have structural reforms to deal with that are the responsibility of the Senate and of the whole Parliament. I would remind my fellow Members that in the coming weeks we will have to deal with the reform of the criminal trial, which also includes important rules on wiretapping, prescription and criminal prosecution. In addition, in a few weeks we will also have to deal with the other major issue that has been awaited for decades: the reform of the civil process. That reform that puts us in a position to make our country more attractive at international level, since we are always reproached that the civil process is slow, long and discourages any investment in our country. In the reform of the civil process, we will also deal with the issue of the so-called family court and I think that we will find the most appropriate solution to ensure its autonomy and specialisation. So, ladies and gentlemen, always here in the Senate in the coming weeks we will have the opportunity to launch the unique anti-Mafia text, where there are very important norms to better strike the assets and riches of the mobsters and also to finally make a qualitative leap to the National Agency for the administration and the destination of the assets seized and confiscated, and thus make it a transparent resource at the service of the country. Ladies and gentlemen, in the area of civil rights, we will also have the opportunity to return and intervene. Many Members have stressed the need to include the torture offence. I would also point out that here in the Senate we have the opportunity to intervene on the other great problem of homophobia, biological origins and surname. I also think that particular attention should be paid to the problem of the actual closure of psychiatric judicial hospitals and the law on citizenship. Ladies and gentlemen, on the prison planet we now have three major challenges: to individualise responses, to differentiate circuits and to make 41- bis ever more rigorous. That is why the work we have to do is valuable and calls into question not only the work of the Government, but also the relationship between majority and opposition. Both in the Committee on Justice and in this House, we have always given our greatest willingness to proceed together and to adopt the laws together. The Minister has presented us with another challenge here, which I think we must face: a qualitative leap in international and European judicial cooperation. True, our democracies are driven by terrorism and mafias and have a European anti-mafia and anti-terrorism prosecutor, have joint intelligence action in the fight against heritage, with a great leap in quality to strike money laundering and confiscate the assets of terrorists and mobsters, I think it can represent a challenge that Parliament must take up, thus supporting the action of the Minister. Ladies and gentlemen, the work that awaits us is pressing, but justice is on the move, the results are positive. The path to be taken is still full of obstacles: the contribution of the Senate must not be lacking and it will not be lacking. The Democratic Party votes in favour of the motion for a resolution which supports the report presented to us by Minister Orlando. [[Applause from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-742.ana.u78	Before voting, I warn you that, in line with established practice, motions for resolutions will be put to the vote in the order of presentation. We shall now proceed to the vote on motion for a resolution No 1. SANTANGELO (M5S). We call for the vote to be taken by simultaneous ballot by electronic means. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of motion for a resolution No 1 tabled by Senators Zanda, Bianconi and Zeller. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the vote on motion for a resolution No 2. STEFANI (LN-Aut). We call for the vote to be taken by simultaneous ballot by electronic means. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I call on Senator Stefani and other senators to vote on the motion for a resolution No 2 at the same time. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the vote on motion for a resolution No 3. MUSSINI (Mixed). We call for the vote to be taken by simultaneous ballot by electronic means. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of motion for a resolution No 3, tabled by Senator Mussini and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the vote on motion for a resolution No 4. SANTANGELO (M5S). We call for the vote to be taken by simultaneous ballot by electronic means. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of motion for a resolution No 4, tabled by Senator Giarrusso and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B).
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-742.ana.u79	Ladies and gentlemen, we move on to the request to include, in accordance with Rule 55 (7) of the Rules of Procedure, an urgent statement by the Minister for Economic Affairs and Finance in relation to the letter sent to the Government by the Vice President of the European Commission and the European Commissioner for Economic and Financial Affairs. The resolution shall be adopted by vote by show of hands after the intervention of no more than one speaker per group for ten minutes each. Since no requests for intervention have been received by the Presidency, I shall put to the vote the proposal to include an urgent statement by the Minister for Economic Affairs and Finance in the agenda of the Assembly. It's approved. SANTANGELO (M5S). I'm asking to talk. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator Santangelo, it seems to me that there is almost unanimity. SANTANGELO (M5S). Since I wasn't sure there was unanimity, I thought the counterproof could give us certainty about that. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]] PRESIDENT. - The debate is Colleagues, given the approval of the proposal, we will make contact with the Minister as soon as possible to determine when to insert the information in the calendar of the Assembly's proceedings.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-742.ana.u80	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-742.ana.u81	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-742.ana.u82	PUPPATE (PD). Mr President, with this late sitting speech I continue here in the Senate today with a relay with which, together with many colleagues, we remember every woman who is killed at the hands of a man to whom she has been linked by a loving relationship. We will do so as long as it is necessary to remind Parliament and our country of the urgency of combating this violence against women. (Followed by Mr Poppato) Today we remember the cases of feminicide, as many as three, two of which occurred within just four days and in the same city, Milan. On January 12, 55-year-old Tiziana Pavani was bottled to the head in her apartment by her friend who was tied up in a relationship. In this dramatic case it did not even serve the triggering motive - non-existent - but the situation of the companion's dependence on toxic substances and alcohol for a person who evidently was violent and inadequate. On 15 January Rosanna Belvisi, fifty years old, was killed by her husband with 23 stabbed, at the end of one of those violent quarrels for which the neighbors had already made intervention the Forces of Order, a sign that the relationships had deteriorated and that the risk for Rosanna was progressive and always higher, as demonstrated in the final act. Rosanna wanted the man who lived in her cargo and who was expecting a child from another woman to leave that house and live elsewhere, as natural as we say. In the night between 15 and 16 January in Santa Maria Capua Vetere, in the province of Caserta, Teresa Cotugno, fifty years old, was shot dead by her husband, who then committed suicide. In this case, as in many others that we have had to remember here, the triggering cause seems to have been the inability to face a separation even just announced. Right of possession, right of ownership, inability to exist and, therefore, dragging the woman considered own with her, towards death, that woman with whom an important part of her life has been shared, but who has no right to an autonomous existence. As if it had not entered into the minds of these men, so different and so far away by age and by experience of life, the need to think of women as persons, as autonomous beings other than themselves, to be respected, if not to be loved. This brings up to 36 women we remember in this relay, started only on June 30, 2016 and already five are those of 2017. Istat informs us that 46 percent of the women killed die at the hands of their partner and in Italy a woman is killed every two days. We have done a lot in this Parliament in this parliamentary term to stem, to limit and to close this dramatic story. Today, we are putting forward our appeals with conviction. An appeal to the Government, everything, while waiting for the delegation to equal opportunities to be reassigned quickly and for there to be a directing booth to monitor and apply the merits and limits of Law No 119 of 2013 and, above all, to give full and accurate implementation to the plan of violence against women. An appeal to the media: stop justifying murderers, even in the wrong language, and blame women. It has to be said that the National Order of Journalists has done well to launch an observatory with the mandate to monitor the media, signaling and denouncing inside every improper expression, revealing what is an emergency for this country. There are 160 women killed every year: we can no longer accept this massacre. [[Applause from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-742.ana.u83	Ladies and gentlemen, before I give the floor for further speeches, I have nine requests for an end-of-session speech. We cannot hold a further sitting for them, because the President must also be allowed to take part in the work of the Commission.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-742.ana.u84	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-742.ana.u85	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-742.ana.u86	Mr Pezzopane (PD). Mr President, I asked this morning to speak on the bad weather emergency in Abruzzo. During the morning the situation that I wanted to point out to the House and, through the President, to the Government was dramatically aggravated. In the week that we have behind the snowfalls have surpassed all predictions. Despite the efforts of the municipalities there has been no incisive action, especially on the part of ANAS. Entire areas have remained isolated for more than three days, not being authorized firms and in agreement with Anas provided with adequate means to free the roads. But this morning the three earthquakes, all of which were above the fifth degree of the Richter scale, caused a dramatic worsening of the situation in those areas. In these hours I have been in contact with the Undersecretary Boschi, Minister Pinotti and Minister Delrio to point out that there are entire fractions and entire communities blocked in their homes, isolated, inaccessible because the roads are blocked. The quakes of this magnitude have caused panic and the events that can be determined are not predictable but an intervention must be done immediately to free those people, to allow those people to move from their homes. To make you understand the situation, an order has been made by the Prefect of the Eagle, so all public offices today and tomorrow will remain closed for the alarm, for the whole, of the snow that obstructs the road and the mobility of people and the earthquake that terrifies them. There is no harm to people, fortunately, despite the intensity of the shocks. There is some damage to the real estate, but I assure you that there is a lot of fear. All I've done in these hours is keep me in touch with mayors, administrators and ministries. I would ask you, therefore, to support this request made by the territory, by the municipalities, and which I, through the Ministers, have also made to send out all possible means. That is the area, between L'Aquila and Amatrice, affected by the previous earthquakes and hit this morning by these new and dangerous shocks. We have to make sure that people can move, because if there is a higher shock, I don't know what will happen. Thank you for your attention and I count very much on your support, which has always been there, in this very delicate and special emergency. They're mountain areas. If the roads do not release the turbines and powerful means of the army and Anas (which should put a hand on the conscience and send adequate means and not tractors), if you do not intervene, that area is totally isolated. The municipalities and private citizens cannot shovel the three meters of snow outside their homes. [[Applause from the PD and FI-PdL XVII groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-742.ana.u87	Thanks for the report and the report, Senator Pezzopane.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-742.ana.u88	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-742.ana.u89	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-742.ana.u90	FACTORS (M5S). Mr President, I would like to take up the question of the earthquake. We all know there were two more shocks this morning. We were told that, unfortunately, the bell tower of Amatrice has definitely fallen and that there have been other collapses. What is dramatic, however, is the situation of both road transport and livestock farmers. On the following two points, I would like to focus on and make a request. The first point is that, despite the two decree-laws that we have all unanimously approved, the emerging response is not working. It is clear that something is not working because the road is not assured and the means provided are not adequate to remove the snow (let us remember that these areas are very difficult, because they are divided into many fractions). We are therefore absolutely in favour of the request to use the army and its means to restore the livability of those areas. There is also another aspect to which we call upon the ministers responsible to report in this House in a joint statement: the question of farmers, because those who have stayed in those areas did so because they have animals and farms to look after. They are small, very small companies that are isolated, often without light, without gas and without heating. We have reports of some fractions in which they had to stay awake at night so as not to starve. There is something that is not working: there is even no hay for animals. We do not want to activate the usual sterile criticism or the controversy, we want Mr Martina to come and report as soon as possible to the House to understand what the means can be to support these farmers who, I repeat, are without feed, without hay and without stables, because there is a crazy delay in building them. This is not the time for polemics, it is not the time to stand up to each other, it is the time to deal with this emergency and come and talk to Parliament to give an answer to the people who feel abandoned. My call is for emergency procedures to be put in place, especially with a view to urgently informing the Ministers in charge, so that each of us, with great participation, can help these abandoned peoples. [[Applause from Senators Bencini, Cats and War.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-742.ana.u91	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-742.ana.u92	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-742.ana.u93	Mr Bencini (Misto-Idv). Mr President, I would like to draw your attention to a number of doubts concerning the various advisory positions, which have been reiterated over time, in favour of the same company. I am referring specifically to the Boston Consulting Group, a multinational company of management consulting and strategic business advice, to which the Government would seem to have entrusted, last in the person of the economic development minister Carlo Calenda, the task of drawing up a project on the updating of the national energy strategy. In this regard, it may not be a case such as the head of secretary of Minister Calenda, Francesco Cuccia, annoveri as a previous employer own Boston Consulting: it is about a week ago an article appeared on the daily fact that examined this specification. In addition, the advice that is being discussed would appear economically to be the responsibility of some energy operators who could thus benefit from it. Moreover, it must be considered that in the public administration there are several structures capable of drawing up the new energy strategy without having to resort to the help of private consultants. The advice provided by the said external company has been requested on several occasions and for different thematic areas. Just think how in May 2015 the vice minister of economic development, at the time Carlo Calenda, commissioned the Boston Consulting Group to make a comparative study on fashion in the world; this way of proceeding served, declaredly, to refine the strategy already elaborated by the Government with the plan of Made in Italy, prepared by the same vice minister of economic development, which allocated, for the year 2015, 260 million euros focusing on internationalization and giving priority to the fair system. The question arises, therefore, spontaneously about the selection criteria that have led to the choice of advisor Boston Consulting, or whether or not there is a selection procedure/band that involves comparison with other potential competitors. In addition, Dr. Barbara Poggiali, as strategic marketing director of Poste Italiane (a joint stock company that sees as a majority shareholder the Italian State through the Ministry of Economy and Finance), has benefited from the advice of the company Boston Consulting thus giving continuity to the choices already made by the predecessors, but significantly increasing the amounts allocated and approved in exit to that company. It is basically a series of contracts concluded by Poste Italiani with external subjects compared to the resources present in the company, for the carrying out of activities that could and had to be carried out by employees. Even for this matter, it may not be a coincidence that in Boston Consulting people are working close to Dr. Poggiali. I therefore conclude by recalling the respect, in the provision of highly qualified external advice and collaborations, of the principles of transparency, publicity and impartiality, as well as the requirements of limiting public expenditure to guarantee transparency and meritocracy.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-742.ana.u94	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-742.ana.u95	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-742.ana.u96	FAVERO (PD). Mr President, I am here to call for an intervention. Since the beginning of the transition to digital terrestrial television, in many parts of the country there have been several difficulties of reception, in particular of the channels of the Rai, that have caused a disservice among citizens who regularly pay the fee, that I remember corresponds through the payment of the electric bill and is equal to 100 euros. Over the years, there have also been numerous requests for intervention from local authorities, which have succeeded in the assurances in the first instance of the RAI and the Ministry of Economic Development, which have not led to a definitive solution of the problems of reception, which have become continuous and exhausting. On 7 August 2013, I tabled a first question in the 8th Commission on this situation. In the session of 5 February 2014, the former Deputy Minister of Economic Development Cattricalà replied to this act stating that joint initiatives were being studied between the Ministry, the Authority for Communications Guarantees (Agcom) and Rai in order to resolve definitively the problem of interferences to transmissions of the Rai in various areas of the national territory. A further intervention on the situation of the frequencies in Piedmont and Lombardy and on the disturbances to the television signal was communicated in response to a second question, signed with my colleague Fornaro in September 2013 and submitted to the relevant RAI Supervisory Commission. Unfortunately, despite the assurances given by the various competent bodies, problems and disturbances persist at the signal of digital terrestrial. In particular, these difficulties are found in the mountain areas, in the villages and in the inner areas, difficult to reach, where for a long time residents are in fact prevented from enjoying a public service of primary importance. The mayors and numerous administrators of Italian municipalities have thus signalled the disservice, approving, at the invitation of the National Union common mountain communities (UNCEM), a agenda addressed to the Government and Parliament to resolve the problems described, which they then made us have. I have therefore put a new question to ask the Minister of Economic Development the opportunity to start with the utmost urgency a complete monitoring throughout the national territory, in order to verify the reception also without disturbance of the television signal, involving to this end also the Regions, the unions of municipalities and the associations of local authorities such as ANCI and UNCEM. I remember that the Regional Communications Committee (CoReCom) of Piedmont has presented a survey carried out on this topic in the Piedmontese Municipalities and the data produced have emerged really important numbers: 149,064 inhabitants, out of a total of 1,205,328, do not receive the Rai signal (about 15 percent) and, to date, 600,000 Piedmontese would not receive the Piedmontese TGR. Monitoring is necessary covering the entire Italian national territory and committing Rai Way to strengthen the infrastructures for the transmission of the TV signal, especially in the mountainous and more internal areas of the country, as well as activating an interministerial table relating to strategies for the resolution of the digital divide according to the national digital agenda.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-742.ana.u97	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-742.ana.u98	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-742.ana.u99	CERONI (FI-PdL XVII). Mr President, I would like to join in the speech by Mr Pezzopane and Mr Fattori. This morning, when I heard the other two shocks and received several calls from the Marches, I was very concerned, because I believe that the government's measures for reconstruction have been very messy. I also believe that the government has underestimated this emergency. I have read a few launches of press agencies that pointed out that both the President of the Council, Mr Gentiloni, and Minister Pinotti, want the army to intervene. That sounds right to me, but it could have been done before. It is evident that when the earthquake destroys the homes and stables it puts in difficulties ten and hundreds of breeders. It is clear that, when winter comes, the situation can only get worse. I take note of the statements made by the President-in-Office of the Council, but I cannot fail to note that this decision has been taken too late.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-742.ana.u100	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-742.ana.u101	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-742.ana.u102	FUCKSIA (Mixed). Mr President, I would like to refer back to the point made by Mr Ceroni, Mr Pezzopane and Mr Fattori to make a few points. Three other magnitude 5.3 shocks mean that all the measurements in the cards Made for post-earthquake synthetic agibility (FAST) and Agibility and damage in the seismic emergency (AEDES) made so far are rag paper and question everything. Let me turn to the constructive part of the proposal: for this reality of months of continuous shocks we need stable territorial garrisons with valid professionals. We have over 300,000 engineers and architects, who are supposed to have certified expertise. The Government and the Civil Service appeal to all these professionals to intervene in a targeted way in the territory, because things have happened that should not have happened. I take the example of farmers, because then we have to see how the good intentions of the government are translated into practice: some farmers, particularly in the Marches, have not been informed that they could independently provide for the purchase of tension structures for animals because then they would be reimbursed at 100%. In Umbria, however, they were informed. There are therefore deficiencies at regional level. In the Region they also laughed at me when I was soliciting a different intervention, because, with all the esteem that can be had for President Errani, he has an experience relative to Emilia, which is completely different from the territorial reality Marche and Apennines, made of villages, families and micro-enterprises, which have nothing to do with the companies of Emilia, where they fell sheds and the owners had the economic willingness to provide for the reconstruction autonomously. Other criticalities in red areas - I am referring, in the municipality of Fabriano, to the red zone of Albacina - are related to houses that are inaccessible for external factors. There are, for example, inhabitants who cannot return to their homes, who would also be accessible, because near there is the bell tower or turret at risk of collapse, but not now, since 1997. Let's start from the beginning: we are not able to support the emergency because we do not know how to use private. This is a structural shortage of municipalities also for other emergencies such as snow. The free roads, in fact, are those where private individuals with tractors have intervened, because the municipalities have filled them with employees or people who do bureaucratic and administrative work, but for manual work the workers of the municipality are no longer there. So, there are no administrative structures organized punctually to satisfy the ordinary, let alone emergencies! The snow in the Apennines cannot be considered an emergency, because we all know that in the winter Apennines it snows and so we knew that those areas would be faced with these additional difficulties. I would like to point out - precisely because we never learn from the experience - that in the aftermath of the earthquake of L'Aquila with Law No 77 of 2009 a billion euros for seismic microzoning and the safety: of those interventions 4,000 were financed and 660; of 1,608 microzonations financed, 916 are completed. We're inside. The municipalities took almost all of the amount (over 700 million) not to do the work. This slowdown is not acceptable. We need to make the law simpler, and it is not enough for a Commissioner Tronca to go to the Ministry of the Interior to do a task force of 15 officials with EUR 1 million a year to monitor what has not been done. Minister Delrio must begin to take note of this situation and this bureaucracy. The guidelines completed in February cannot be enough, even if they will certainly unlock some situation, as it will finally be said how to proceed with the classification of buildings and therefore also an insurance cover. That can't be enough. This is not the time for bureaucratisation: we need immediate structural intervention here, with zero bureaucracy, for which we need competent people with a plan. I conclude: we have appealed to Renzo Piano, a very valiant and high-level person, but Piano is one and does not make one of inspections, because the area is difficult and articulated. Here we need skills and we need private intervention, because not intervening means having more damage and spending much more and it is no longer the time of expectations.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-742.ana.u103	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-742.ana.u104	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-742.ana.u105	EXPOSED Stefano (PD). Mr President, Italy has, with a significant investment, equipped itself with a high-speed network that now connects the North to the South of Italy and all this has produced a redesign of the transports on the national territory. In this regard, there is an issue which this House and the relevant Commissions have been following for a long time, that of commuters who use high speed to go to work. This concerns important sections such as Turin-Milan, Rome-Bologna, Bologna-Rome and Florence-Rome. In recent days, with a night raid, Trenitalia has increased the cost of subscriptions for commuters by 35%, however, making a choice that I consider offensive, both to Parliament and to the subject it had asked much more, and to the commuters, who were warned only a few hours before the entry into force of these increases. I believe that we must have great attention to this world, not only because we know that commuters are one of the issues on which, despite the work and investment made by the government, we have not yet found a solution, but because we are talking about commuters to whom we have taken away the traditional trains, explaining to them that with high speed their lives would have changed for the better. Today, in an interview, the managing director of railways of the State Mazzoncini, in front of an increase of 35 percent (for Turin-Milan, we speak of an increase from 340 to 459 euros per month), evidently imagining the commuters of Turin-Milan as people who earn at least 5,000 euros per month, therefore giving an idea of his distance from the real life of these people, he defined it a tolerable increase while, if you look at the rest of Europe, you would see that Italy is still under European costs. Well, I don't think that's acceptable. I believe - and I have already asked the intervention of minister Delrio and the Authority of the transports - that it is not acceptable, as emerges from the interview of the managing director of Ferrovie dello Stato, the idea to expel the commuters from the use of the high speed. I have been and am a supporter of the realization of the high speed in the country, not for the rich, but for all the Italian citizens and I believe that the CEO Mazzoncini must have made confusion, in his interview, about the fact that the Ferrovie dello Stato is not his property, but they are still owned by the State, that the money has put them in the State and that we demand that all Italian citizens, beginning with those who work outside their city, can use it. So, through your person, I ask you to make yourself available to the Government, so that you pay further attention to this issue. [[Applause from the PD Group and Senator Barani.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-742.ana.u106	Absolutely, Senator Stefano Esposito. At first I thought I misunderstand the size and size of the increase, but it's just 35%.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-742.ana.u107	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-742.ana.u108	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-742.ana.u109	D'ANNA (ALA-SCLP). Mr President, I am speaking, even if the House is empty, to keep track of my statement. In this House, some time ago and earlier, we voted twice for the prosecutor's office to first acquire phone records concerning Senator Milo's judicial case, even though it had emerged that such interceptions had been made without the senator being recorded in the register of suspects, thus with obvious abuse. That is why I am pleased to say to a House today that it was not very careful, that the judge for the preliminary investigation, read the documents, felt that there was no evidence to be able to refer Senator Milo to trial. I say this in an empty Chamber, because this House fills up when it is necessary to excite the media and eliminate or attempt to eliminate the opponent through the public, but I also say this because after such a sentence, if I were President Stefano, having been that exception on the abuse that had been done against the prerogatives of Senator Milo, I would resign. I say this to myself and I say it to the House, through your person, because it would be appropriate to submit, and perhaps we will do so, a proposal for a law to completely eliminate the healings of Members of Parliament. In fact, just as it happened in the House where I was a member of the Commission for the authorisation to proceed, there has been a number of votes in this House for political reasons, not because there has been a conviction from the reading of the acts, so if the vote is political, the decisions are linked to the majority that the government has in this Chamber at that time. One of the attacks that anti-politics taunts, scams and lies of the 5 Star Movement... PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. No, Senator D'Anna, don't say that. D'ANNA (ALA-SCLP). ...has carried on in Italy to delegitimize the institutions, Parliament and parliamentarians, was the axiom according to which a suspicion, a warning of guarantee, was sufficient to consider worthy of expulsion from the political community the ill-capitulated. This is the assumption and this is what permeates, even today, the organization of certain social networks. Therefore, in view of the desecration of politics and politicians, it would be good if, in certain circumstances, such as those which occurred the day before yesterday with the absolution of Senator Barani, we renounced the healings or, once and for all (since we have discussed the highest systems and justice), we put our hand to a reform of justice that renders responsible those who unwittingly initiate proceedings, as is the case for those who take unsubstantiated judicial action and are sentenced to the payment of expenses. It is necessary to introduce a minimum of responsibility, not with respect to the jurisdiction and prerogatives of the magistrates, but with respect to cases as striking as this, in which another magistrate considers, from reading the papers, that there is no element to prepare the trial. [[Applause from Senator Barani.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-742.ana.u110	The motions, questions and questions received by the Presidency will be published in Annex B to today's report. I recall that the Senate will return to public session today, at 4.30 p.m., on the same agenda. The sitting was closed at 2.30 p.m.
