ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-898.ana.u1	The sitting was opened at 16:01. The Minutes shall be read. Mr Petraglia, secretary, read the Minutes of the afternoon sitting of the previous day. PRESIDENT. - The debate is Since there were no comments, the Minutes were approved.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-898.ana.u2	The list of senators on leave and absent on assignment received from the Senate, as well as further communications to the Assembly, will be published in Annex B to today's Minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-898.ana.u3	The next item is the holding of questions. The first question to be asked will be 3-03823 on the case of a compatriot resident in Tokyo. The representative of the Government may answer this question. Unfortunately, the competent Deputy Minister had a serious setback and so we thank the undersecretary Pharaoh for not having forced us to postpone the discussion.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-898.ana.u4	Madam President, the Farnesina, the Italian Embassy in Tokyo and the Italian Consulate General in Osaka know very well and follow very closely the story reported by the honourable Member, providing assistance to the compatriot and to the children born from the marriage with a Japanese citizen. According to Farnesina, after living in Germany for a few years, the family moved - by mutual agreement - to Japan, Tokyo, in October 2015. A few months later, however, due to the deterioration of the marital relationship, the mother of the young returned to Nagasaki, her hometown, taking the children with her. Since then, the Japanese citizen has made the relationship between her father and her children very difficult, hindering their contact. A judicial procedure is currently under way in Japan to define the terms of the matter, in which the compatriot has given a mandate to a lawyer who defends him and assists him. In this respect, the judgment will probably be delivered by the first half of next November. On April 28, the third hearing was held at the court of minors in Nagasaki which led to the grant to the father of the right of visit to minors. This is a positive development in family litigation; on 2 June the compatriot was able to meet his children and on 29 July he had a conversation with them by electronic means. Since then, however, the compatriot has no longer had contact with minors because of - according to him - the opposition of his mother. The story does not form an international subtraction of minors, but it nourishes itself in a conjugal conflict that, in the absence of a bonary composition among parents, is subject exclusively to the norms - procedural and merit - of the country in which the family lives. Nevertheless, the case has been brought to the attention of the press as well as some Japanese parliamentarians and a diplomatic and political solution has been called for. The Italian Embassy in Tokyo and the Consulate General in Osaka, in agreement with Farnesina, have repeatedly attempted mediation between the spouses, in search of a solution that mitigates the mutual parental claims with the right of minors to preserve the relationship with both parents. The compatriot was received several times at the embassy, last last October 5, where he always found attention and listening. Recently, in the framework of the regular consular coordination meetings at European level, the embassy then launched a tour of the horizon with the other European partners accredited in Tokyo to assess and discuss cases similar to that involving our fellow countryman, with the aim of sharing consular protection experiences and exchanging useful information. The embassy will continue to maintain contact with all parties involved and seek a fair solution to the family conflict, in the supreme interest of children.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-898.ana.u5	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-898.ana.u6	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-898.ana.u7	MUSSINI (Mixed). Madam President, I would like to thank Mr Faraone, who has allowed me to have the answer to my question in this House. I must say, therefore, not so much to the Undersecretary, but to the Farnesina who provides this data, that the answer if, on the one hand, I am refreshed by the fact that the Ministry of Foreign Affairs has taken action to assist this compatriot, on the other hand, leaves some questions that I still feel obliged to make known. First of all, the fact that there is no subtraction of minors, compared to what we know and that the Farnesina itself admits to being the current conditions of minors, constitutes a definition of convenience. In fact, these children do not have the opportunity to see their father and it has been established, even by the Japanese social services, that they are in a state of suffering. I therefore believe that the fact that the mother, who obviously has a lack of capacity for dialogue within these conflicts, is still able to decide in full on the possibilities of contact between children and their father, in the face of a child's discomfort, should be more concerned than it seems to me to be. I take this opportunity to remind the Farnesina that this condition concerns not only one countryman, but also other Italians who have a similar situation in the same territory. I would add - and this is an invitation to the Farnesina - that, in a world that is certainly globalized, for the economic reasons that we know well and which push us to bilateral negotiations always focused on economic and cultural relations, it seems to me that the aspects relating to family law are rather neglected. In fact, we should perhaps be more concerned about the fact that there are fellow countrymen who, in the context of this greater mobility that belongs to our age, increasingly and more and more incisively and painfully find themselves in such situations. I would like to call on Farnesina to bear in mind that, where we have engaged in bilateral relations, family law (much is moving in other respects of the law) should also be observed and contemplated in an organic way in relation to the powers to conclude agreements between States. We must not forget that in our system, however, the best interests of the child are covered, which I believe must of course be protected within the national territory, on which we have full sovereignty, but also where a party in question has rights over the fact that it is an Italian citizen. I know there's gonna be a hearing soon. I take advantage of the answer to the question to ask the Farnesina not to stop giving that human assistance that I believe is due and also to find, within the institutional dialogue, all the forms to be able to take charge of this situation, bearing in mind that other States such as - I think, for example, the United States of America and precisely the Congress - have obtained and expressed themselves in a much stronger and perhaps even more incisive way.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-898.ana.u8	Following is the question 3-03741 on the suspension of hospital activity by San Vincenzo di Taormina, in the province of Messina, at the end of May 2017. The representative of the Government may answer this question.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-898.ana.u9	Madam President, before moving on to the substance of this inspection, I would like to point out that the same, presented a few days before the meeting of the Heads of State and Government of the Group of the most industrialized countries (G7), which took place in Taormina on 26 and 27 May, had been placed immediately in the planning of the inspection union of this House, so as to provide timely information to the Senator of the question. Replying today, at the end of the event, however, is particularly appropriate - and for this reason I thank the Senator - because it makes it possible to illustrate in this Assembly all the measures of health organization of specific regional competence that have contributed to the excellent organizational success of the event, contributing, also for this verse, to the diffusion of a positive international image of our country. As you know, the scope of the event has required, alongside the impressive security measures, planning specifically aimed at ensuring, in any case of necessity, adequate health assistance both to international delegations and to operators involved in various aspects of the event. In this regard, the prefecture of Messina has communicated that the council of health of the Sicilian Region has prepared for the occasion a plan of social-sanitary assistance, which has involved the medical and health staff belonging to different bodies and institutions, that have contributed, each in its own field of competence, to guarantee the serene conduct of the event. For the realization of the planning and the consequent operating procedures, the city council has carried out a planning work of regional character, with the objective to better address the eventual situations of risk, also in their evolutionary aspects. In this context, the territorial relief system of the Health Service of emergency and medical emergency (118) has been strengthened, with fixed and mobile stations spread throughout the region and at local level, in order to guarantee the rapidity of intervention in any area; the hospital garrison of Taormina, pertaining to the provincial hospital company of Messina; the hospital garrisons of Messina and Catania, considered the equivalence of the intervention area with respect to the two capitals, as well as the eliambulance service in the twenty-four hours, dedicated to the event G7. In addition, in view of the size of the international summit, the social and health care plan was aimed at ensuring, in particular, basic health care, as well as emergency and emergency care, to the Heads of State and Government and their delegations; the prompt arrival of health assistance, with dedicated routes, to the benefit of the population living in the area affected by the event; emergency medical care and related treatment in the event of demonstrations and possible attacks; and, finally, health care for all personnel temporarily operating in the territory. The planning managed by the Sicilian Region, in addition to human resources, involved several hospital structures located in the provincial territory of Messina and Catania, placed in the maximum state of attention and ready for the activation of the pre-established internal emergency plan for massive influx of wounded. This health care network has provided for a rescue system that will allow, in case of need, maximum speed of intervention and due confidentiality for the benefit of participants in the international event. It is recalled that the hospital San Vincenzo di Taormina is located in the immediate vicinity of both the areas subject to access restrictions for safety reasons, as well as the area where the demonstration organized by the anti-G7 movements took place. Therefore, dependent on the provincial health company No. 5 of Messina, it has been upgraded to the maximum receptive and interventional capacity and, for the period of warning of the event, prepared also for the procedure outlined in the internal emergency plan for evacuation. With regard to the resident population, the same regional planning provided that, in any case, the request for the activation of health care at 118, the reference hospital would be the San Vincenzo di Taormina. The latter in fact, even during the days of the international meeting, continued to host the patients already assisted, while it suspended only the scheduled admissions, remaining, in any case, prepared to accommodate eventual emergencies, even if not strictly related to the G7 summit. To confirm the proper functioning of such organization, the prefecture of Messina has signalled a particular intervention of rescue carried out near the hospital San Vincenzo of Taormina - just in the morning of 26 May 2017 and therefore in full development of the international summit - that it has concerned an extra-Community woman, which had recently given birth to a newborn aboard the ship Libra of the Italian military Navy, directed to the port of Reggio Calabria and that, at that moment, it sailed off the coast of Giardini Naxos. The woman and the newborn were in fact part of a group of 472 migrants saved in the Sicilian Channel, and were brought to the ground by a motorman of the harbor captain and then transported to the hospital. I would therefore like to conclude by reassured the Senator that the development of the G7, by certainly requiring a strengthening of the Sicilian welfare network linked to the specific needs of the event, did not prejudice the provision of essential levels of assistance, which were guaranteed to citizenship without causing suspensions or interruptions that would compromise the health of patients.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-898.ana.u10	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-898.ana.u11	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-898.ana.u12	Campanella (Art.1-MDP). Madam President, in thanking the undersecretary, Mr Pharaoh, I am pleased that, as far as I am aware, no special disservices have been reported at that time and in those days. However, my satisfaction with this answer is necessarily partial, for two reasons. Firstly, as the Undersecretary himself mentioned, the question is not an act made by one individual subject to another, but by one person representing the public thing to another who manages it. The delay prevented me from reassuring those who had pointed out to me the fears I expressed with the question in good time. To date, I am pleased to have a representation of the operation put in place in those days, but the worry, in the absence of answers, has remained intact. This allows me, however, to make two points: the first as Secretary of State for Health and the second as representative of the Government. As far as answers to questions are concerned, as Members of Parliament, we have become accustomed to such an approach that the Government responds to us when it considers it appropriate, depending on the type of answer it has to give us: if it returns to its advantage for the operation that it has managed to put in place, then it arrives; otherwise, it does not arrive. If this gives the measure of the government's ability to solve the problems, we are miserable, considering that, out of 146 questions I have tabled in this parliamentary term, I have received 39 answers (including this). It is therefore to be imagined that in other cases the Government has considered it more appropriate for its political image not to respond. As far as a more technical aspect is concerned, I would like to point out here to the Undersecretary that I imagine that, as a Sicilian, he has full confidence: the health situation in Sicily is frankly very poor, especially with regard to first aid facilities. The latter, on this occasion, thanks to the strong reinforcement that all the structures of the area had received, were able to respond well. I must say, however, that it is normal for those who live in Sicily, even in the big cities, to find themselves in front of structures of first aid crowded extremely, with waiting times, also for red codes - so not green or white, which are less or even at all serious - even hours. This aspect is certainly linked to a lack of health funds which, from what I have read in the DEF, which has just been approved, are facing a continuous reduction. This would make political sense more easily understood if this reduction were accompanied by a reduction in inefficiencies. The impression, on the other hand, is that inefficiencies are the hardest to remove and that the reduction of the funds available in the end is based on a reduction of the service tout court that goes to the disadvantage of users in an area that, as you can imagine, is absolutely crucial in a person's life.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-898.ana.u13	Questions 3-04001 and 3-0424 on compensation for persons suffering from thalidomide syndrome follow. The representative of the Government may answer these questions together.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-898.ana.u14	Madam President, first of all, I would like to point out that the problem raised by the interrogating senators is to the constant attention of the Ministry of Health, which also provided detailed information on the state of the adoption of the regulation on compensation for the victims of thalidomide during a recent meeting of the Commission of the Chamber of Deputies. The Ministry's activity, however, continued incessantly, also in view of the relevance of the topic under consideration which, as mentioned, sees recipients hundreds of people suffering from thalidomide syndrome. Therefore, I am going to provide further updates related to the activity carried out by the Ministry precisely in these last days. As the honourable Members have pointed out, Article 21b of Decree-Law No 113 of 2016, converted by Law No 160 of 2016, supplemented the existing legislation on compensation for persons suffering from thalidomide syndrome. This provision, in a nutshell, extended the right to the recognition of compensation to persons suffering from thalidomide syndrome in the forms of amelia, emimelia, focomelia and micromelia, also to those born in 1958 and 1966, as well as to persons who, even if born outside the period provided for by law, present malformations compatible with thalidomide syndrome. In this latter case, however, for the purpose of establishing the causal link between the intake of thalidomide during pregnancy and the injuries or infirmity from which permanent impairment in the forms of amelioria, emimelia, focomelia and micromelia was derived, the law provided that, by its own regulation, the Minister of Health would make the necessary amendments to the regulation provided for in Decree of the Minister of Labour, Health and Social Policies No 163 of 2 October 2009, in particular by defining the criteria for inclusion and exclusion of malformations for the purpose of establishing the right to compensation for applicants. Having made this necessary premise - useful in order to understand immediately the complexity, first of all scientific technical, of the task assigned to the Ministry of Health - I immediately pass to the merit of the question asked to illustrate the activity carried out so far by this administration. In view of the need for an in-depth and multidisciplinary examination of the most accredited medical and scientific studies in the field of specific malformations by thalidomide, in order to define the criteria for inclusion and exclusion of malformations for the determination of the right to compensation for persons born outside the period 1958 to 1966, the Ministry of Health asked the Higher Health Council - the technical consultative body of the Minister of Health - to express its views on the definition of these criteria and, in particular, on the identification of malformations compatible with thalidomide syndrome. On 17 January 2017, Joint Sections II and V of the Higher Health Council gave their opinion on the inclusion and exclusion criteria, and in particular on the identification of malformations compatible with thalidomide syndrome, for the purpose of establishing the right to compensation for those born outside the period 1958 to 1966. Taking into account the legislation and the opinion given by the Council, this Ministry has drawn up a draft regulation. The draft regulation was forwarded to the Higher Health Council - Member, among other things, to give a mandatory opinion on health-related regulations, pursuant to Legislative Decree No 266 of 1993 - to verify the consistency of the above scheme with the notice issued by the Council on 17 January 2017 and to obtain the opinion. On 13 June 2017, Joint Sections II and V of the Higher Health Council made the opinion mandatory. Following the comments made in the opinion of the Higher Health Council, the Ministry amended the draft regulation accordingly. On 3 August 2017, the Ministry of Health requested the opinion, pursuant to Law No 400 of 1988, from the Council of State, at the meeting of the Consultative Section for Regulatory Acts of 31 August 2017. The favourable opinion with comments and conditions was sent to this Ministry on 4 September 2017. Among the general conditions laid down by the Council of State I must highlight one in particular: the one relating to the regulatory technique used to implement the new provisions introduced by Article 21-b. The regulatory choice of this Ministry was, in fact, to rewrite the regulation as a whole, bringing to the same the necessary modifications to adapt it to the new legislative provisions: this for the exclusive purpose of achieving a better understanding of the regulation for the benefit of the recipients of the measure. Although the Council of State has very much appreciated the choice of this Ministry to give greater clarity to the text, rewriting the regulation in full with the amendments necessary to adapt it to the new legislative provisions, I must point out, however, that the high assembly has considered it necessary that the intervention of updating should be interpolated by the provisions and, therefore, by the method of novelization. Therefore, the new outline of the regulation transposing the observations of the Council of State and the same was sent on 28 September, according to the recommendation of the same Council of State, to the Ministry of Economy and Finance - Department of the General Accounting of the State - for the purposes of the necessary verifications in relation to the additional burdens that must find cover in the financial means prepared by the law. Following the positive verification carried out by the General Accounting Office of the State, on 3 October the draft regulation was communicated, as required by Article 17 (3) of Law No 400 of 23 August 1988, to the Presidency of the Council of Ministers, which, in taking note of the communication, made some comments on 9 October 2017, which were accepted in the final wording of the regulation. I can, therefore, reassure the interrogating senators that the procedure provided for in the legislation in force for the drafting of the regulation has been concluded and that it can shortly be issued and therefore published in the Official Journal.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-898.ana.u15	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-898.ana.u16	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-898.ana.u17	ANGIONES (PD). Madam President, I would like to thank the Undersecretary for his reply, which has provided a historical reconstruction of the events, as well as some updates on the last days. The hope is that the new rewording of the Regulation will also correspond to the possibility of extending the time allowed for the submission of compensation, which is necessary to enable people who have the right to request it to have more time than the date currently fixed, which is that of 28 December.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-898.ana.u18	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-898.ana.u19	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-898.ana.u20	Mr Pagliari (PD). Madam President, I welcome the definition of the procedure and therefore the forthcoming adoption of the Rules of Procedure. I can therefore only be satisfied with the conclusion of this process, which has been long and complex also in relation to the matter, and which opens up the prospect of obtaining the right to compensation in practice.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-898.ana.u21	Following is the question 3-03688 on measures to combat drought and the last frost wave in Veneto. The representative of the Government may answer this question.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-898.ana.u22	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, I would first like to point out that the Ministry pays the greatest attention to the issue of companies affected by adverse weather events. For this reason, I would like to thank the honourable Members who have allowed this issue to be dealt with in this House as well. Precisely for this reason, and in view of the exceptional nature of the events referred to by the honourable Member, we supported and approved the amendment to the correction of the public accounts, which provides for a provision for agricultural undertakings which have suffered damage from the exceptional frosts, frosts and snowfalls that occurred in April 2017, as well as from the drought of the summer period, extending to them the possibility of access to the benefits of the National Solidarity Fund also for insurable crops. By law no. 123 of 2017 of conversion of Decree-Law No. 91 of 2017 was approved a legislative amendment wanted by this Ministry that allows the activation of the National Solidarity Fund also to farms damaged by adverse weather events in question. The provision takes into account the fact that, although the events considered are insurable for all crop crops, in the areas most affected by the adversities reported, the subsidised insurance instruments are poorly used by farmers who, in the event of exceptional events, could not rely on any form of compensation, risking being compromised the possibility of economic and productive recovery of the activity. With this in mind, I would remind you that the National Solidarity Fund is promoting measures for the economic and productive recovery of agricultural enterprises in the face of damage to agricultural and livestock production, for the restoration of damage to farm structures caused by natural disasters or exceptional events. Thanks to this, companies affected by frost or drought and which have not signed insurance policies, will be able to access the benefits provided by Legislative Decree no. 102 of 2004 to facilitate the resumption of production activity. The regions concerned will be able to decide on the proposal to declare exceptional weather events by 31 December 2017, which is the prerequisite for the operation of the measures. The decree of declaration for the provinces of Vicenza and Verona for damages to productions caused in some provincial territories by frosts of April 2017 has been prepared and is being finalised. In addition, in order to ensure greater liquidity for agricultural enterprises, the European Commission has asked the European Commission to authorise the provision of advances of at least 70% for direct payments and up to 85% for support granted under rural development measures, and to apply a greening derogation allowing farmers to use set-aside land for grazing and grazing even during periods where such practice is prohibited. As for the initiatives of this Ministry aimed at the realization of new irrigation works, I inform that the expiry date of the call for selection of project proposals within the framework of the National Rural Development Programme 2014-2020 - published in the Official Journal of 17 March 2017 and on the institutional site of the Ministry of Agricultural, Food and Forestry Policies - whose measure 4 expressly provides for investments in irrigation infrastructures, expired on 31 August. The applications on which the preparatory phase of the admissibility check has been completed contain a total aid requested of € 1,048,28,790,63. The resources available correspond to around 600 million, with 300 million from the European Agricultural Fund for Rural Development (EAFRD) 2015-2020 for large irrigation infrastructure projects and 295 million from the Development and Cohesion Fund. To these investments will be added the financing - from the Fund established by article 1, paragraph 140, of the law bearing the budget forecast of the State, for the financial year 2017 - for approximately 106 million euros, for six strategic projects, as able to resolve important critical issues such as hydrogeological failure, environmental recovery, as well as the facilitation of solutions of issues subject to infringement procedures by the European Union.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-898.ana.u23	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-898.ana.u24	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-898.ana.u25	Conte (AP-CpE-NCD). Madam President, I would like to thank the Deputy Minister for his reply and, above all, for the promptness of the interventions made with the corrective budgetary manoeuvre. In my question I referred only to the dramatic event that took place in Veneto some time ago; it was pointed out in the answer that the particularly droughty season caused further damage, to which others were added due to the storm that occurred towards the end of the production period. The agricultural sector in Veneto has therefore been severely penalised not only in terms of wine-growing but also in respect of specialised crops which, especially in recent years, have seen some farms run by young farmers who devote themselves and believe in this sector. This is particularly important because it is these companies that, at the time of the crisis that has hit Italy in general and Veneto in particular, have proved to be able to cope with economic difficulties. I therefore believe that these measures are important and appropriate. I also hope that the Fund of some 60 million made available, which is not enough to respond to more than one billion requests for irrigation works, can, by means of the 2018 budget law, be refilled or additional resources can be found to be made available. I believe that this is certainly an investment in the agricultural sector, because it allows companies to withstand in times of economic crisis that in Veneto are led mainly by young people.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-898.ana.u26	The following is the question 3-0940 on the implementation of the forest fire plans of the Regions. The representative of the Government may answer this question.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-898.ana.u27	Madam President, with regard to the issues raised, on the basis of the elements acquired, it must first be pointed out that sector legislation and, in particular, legislative decree No 112 of 31 March 1998, entrust the primary competence in the matter of the active fight against forest fires to the regions, reserving to the State the only contribution in the activity of shutdown. The Framework Law on Forest Fires No 353 of 21 November 2000 assigned to the Regions, inter alia, the task of defining and planning, through specific regional plans, the activities of forecasting, prevention and active fight against forest fires. In this context, the Ministry of the Environment has direct competence in the matter of fires only with reference to the forest fire plans of the state protected areas, while the direct competence of the Regions in the active fight, also within the aforementioned protected areas. To protect them, on 12 July last, the Ministry of the Environment issued a special directive in which recommendations are also included for the systematic updating of the land register of areas covered by fire, referred to in the aforementioned law n. 353 of 2000. According to this directive, the managing bodies of the protected areas will have to send a special circular to the municipalities in the aforementioned areas every year, in order to urge those who do not comply in the preparation and/or updating of the relevant register. The update must also be communicated to the managing body for the annual update of its forest fire plan (AIB). Moreover, in the awareness that the phenomenon of forest fires represents one of the most critical environmental emergencies for our country, on 5 April last, a special protocol of understanding was signed between the Carabinieri's weapon and the National Firefighters' Corps, in order to define every useful operational synergy and to further improve the effectiveness of the interventions. On 4 May 2017, moreover, a special framework agreement was signed between the Government and the Regions, which further integrates the framework of the initiatives taken to prevent, as far as possible, operational dysfunctions in the field of the active fight against forest fires throughout the country. The Ministry of the Interior has also highlighted that, in the mores of the emanation of the interministerial decree with implementing provisions for the institution, within the national body of the firefighters, of the forest fire service and its articulation in central and territorial structures, has adopted the necessary measures for the carrying out of the activities provided for by the legislative decree n. 177 of 2016. In particular, it has managed to frame the personnel of the Forestry Corps actually transferred to the same Ministry of Interior in the new AIB roles when the National Firefighters Corps was exhausted. In addition, following the transfer of aircraft personnel from the State Forestry Corps, the new flight departments of Cecina, Lamezia Terme and Rieti have been established. In addition, since January, procedures have been activated with ENAC to maintain the airworthiness conditions of air vehicles transited from forestry to the National Corps. The serious environmental crisis that occurred during the summer season, characterized by the spread of numerous and extensive forest fires, as well as a prolonged drought, has led, moreover, to a continued risk condition for the conservation of wildlife in large sectors of our territory. In the light of this situation, the pursuit of hunting activities for certain species may represent a further reason for worsening the demographic conditions of the populations concerned, not only in the areas covered by the fires, but also in the neighbouring and interlinked sectors where the action of the fire has affected important percentages of the territory and when the fires have occurred over the last few years in the same areas. Therefore, it is considered necessary to adopt measures to limit the levy on the basis of the findings of specific monitoring initiatives, in particular on the part of the populations of sedentary or nesting wildlife, potentially subject to venatory collection. In particular, it is considered useful to extend for at least two years the hunting ban in all areas covered by fire, as already provided for in Law No 353 of 2000 for wooded areas only, as well as to a band adjacent to the same areas, the size of which must be determined on a case-by-case basis according to the burnt surfaces, their distribution and the environmental characteristics of the surrounding areas. For this reason, ISPRA has considered to send a note to the Regions in which, also according to the precautionary principle, it is emphasized the opportunity to take precautionary measures during the current hunting season, including the ban on hunting in pre-opening, in order to avoid that populations, falling back in the territories affected by extreme fires and climatic conditions, may suffer further damage. With regard to hydrogeological risk, the Ministry of the Environment has decided to address in a structural way the related problems, starting, in coordination with the mission structure against the failure, the national operational plan of the interventions for the mitigation of the hydrogeological risk for the period 2014-2020. This plan, which aims to identify a project park, collects the needs expressed by the regions, through the Rendis-web system. The platform is managed by ISPRA and, to date, contains 8.852 proposals for action for a total of €29.520 billion. In any event, it should be noted that the inclusion of an intervention in the aforementioned database is not in itself a guarantee of financing, but a necessary condition for the proposed intervention to be assessed, in accordance with the procedures and criteria laid down by the decree of the President of the Council of Ministers of 28 May 2015, for possible inclusion in future programming, subject to the determination of eligibility for the financing of the proposed intervention and the overcoming of competition with other requests reported for similar purposes. Also on the subject of hydrogeological failure, ISPRA, in the context of its institutional tasks of collecting, processing and disseminating data in the field of soil protection, realizes, in collaboration with the autonomous regions and provinces, the inventory of landslides in Italy (IFFI project) that contains to date more than 614,000 landslides, occurred on the national territory. ISPRA also implements national landslide mosaics - hydrogeological (PAI) plans - and hydraulic and national hydrogeological risk indicators that provide an official framework for risk for landslides and floods in Italy and an important tool to support mitigation policies. Finally, with reference to the possibility of setting up a forestry Directorate-General at the Ministry of Agriculture, Food and Forestry Policy, the relevant project is in advanced state of development, as reported by the administration itself. In any case, as far as its competence is concerned, it is reassured that the Ministry of the Environment and the protection of the territory and the sea will continue to carry out its activities and will maintain a high level of attention on the issues in question.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-898.ana.u28	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-898.ana.u29	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-898.ana.u30	BLUNDO (M5S). Madam President, in the meantime, I am not entirely satisfied with this response, although in some respects it is possible to see, as reported in the conclusion of the reply, at least an appropriate intervention regarding the risk of landslides, landslides and all the dangers that result to citizens and to our environment. However, I believe that there is little to be trusted in this regard, because the intervention of fire prevention has demonstrated all its criticality and lack of confidence. First of all, it would be appropriate to give an early response to the acts of inspection union: I submitted this question in August, before the summer break and would have deserved a different attention, even in the light of what then occurred, with the short-sighted choice that was wanted to carry forward despite all the criticalities and the contradictions highlighted. I am referring to the fragmentation of the Forest Corps and its amalgamation in the other Corps: military, the Carabinieri and the firemen, precisely because a specificity has failed. Despite what the commander of the fire department himself said and now by you on a prevention agreement between the Carabinieri and the fire department and despite the fact that they have affirmed the will for synergy in the intervention, in fact the specificity has been lacking. What happened in Abruzzo was emblematic in this sense, just think of the problem of the means of rescue, helicopters, the entire heritage in the availability of the Forest Corps, whose use has slowed down. Now, even in the light of what is happening, there is a problematic aspect that is the one relating to costs: 15,000 euros per hour for the intervention of a Canadair and 5,000 euros per hour for the intervention of a helicopter, so much so that the competition authority has begun to deal with this business as well. Senator Castaldi has put a question on this subject and I hope that it will soon be answered. Going back to the answer given today to my question about the danger of fires, what happened with regard to the fire on the mountains of Morrone has demonstrated the inadequacy of this measure referred to the law Madia and its implementing decrees, because in fact the Abruzzo Region itself had to take a step back and conclude an agreement to return to the Forest Corps the task of intervening in coordinating the fire brigades, as had always been done before. I am therefore not satisfied with the answer and I am also rather concerned about the fauna and flora of our naturalistic and landscape heritage, since the same forestry Directorate-General of which, in my question, I asked for the timely establishment of the Ministry of Agriculture, Food and Forestry Policy to update the census of monumental trees and olive groves and to implement national policies related to forest fires, was only established on 2 October. Dr. Angela Farina, responsible for updating the census of monumental trees, had interrupted its activity for nine months, fatal even in Puglia, where they were brought to the felling of the centuries-old olive trees. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Thank you, Senator Blundo. BLUNDO (M5S). I shall conclude, Madam President. Excuse me. Therefore, I believe that beyond the agreements that must be concluded in the Regions in order to establish prevention plans, if there are no adequate competences available, we cannot go ahead, because the Abruzzo Region has always signed agreements with the Forestry Corps, while in this case it had only signed a rather incomplete protection plan.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-898.ana.u31	Following is Question 3-00165 on the telematic process. The representative of the Government may answer this question.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-898.ana.u32	Madam President, the inspection union act presented by Senator Ginetti allows us to make a picture of a whole series of reforms approved in recent years by the various governments, which have led us to adapt to all the European legislation referred to by the Senator and therefore to the directives and acts of the Council and the European Commission. This question refers to court proceedings, to the use of information and communication technologies by judicial offices and to the whole project of computerization of justice. In fact, in recent years the Dicastery of Justice has focused much on computerization: looking at the last law of stability, it has now been three years that the voice relating to the Ministry of Justice has obtained resources for computerization. The act of inspection union thus offers the opportunity to fully illustrate the results of the overall modernization action launched in recent years by the Ministry of Justice, in the full awareness that the growth of our country necessarily passes also through an efficient and rapid judicial system in the response to users. In this perspective, computerization and the use of modern technologies in jurisdiction have played a priority role in the policies of the Government and the Ministry of Justice in particular. Three years after the entry into force of the mandatory electronic civil process for cases registered before the courts throughout Italy, the results achieved are such as to make the cultural data of the absolute essentiality of information and communication technologies, in order to ensure justice characterized by high quality levels and supported by an administration able to provide innovative services to the whole citizen, as well as to the parts of the individual proceedings. The three-year compulsory budget provides a positive picture of the day-to-day use of the platform. I would like to provide your lordship with some data: from 1 July 2014 to 30 June 2017 lawyers and other qualified professionals, almost 20 million acts, have been deposited, constantly growing from year to year. It is also confirmed that the judiciary is firmly committed to the active use of the platform, as evidenced by the more than 11 million digital "native" measures deposited by civil judges. The telematic communications of the Registry, now extended also to the proceedings pending before the Court of Cassation, have reached and exceed 50 million, allowing, in the last three years, an estimated savings in 178 million euros. The Administration of Justice has also been a pioneer in the definition and the first trial of the electronic payment system called PagoPA. The success of the service is testified by the number of payments made on the portal of telematic services, about 340,000 since July 2014, with a total payment close to 70 million euros. Precisely in the direction advocated by Senator Ginetti, it is worth noting that all the services offered by the platform of the telematic process have led to a tangible reduction in the time taken to define the monitoring procedures, characterized by full telematization, in a system of obligatory also with regard to the measures of the magistrates. In this field there has been - especially in the larger courts - a reduction in the average time taken to issue the injunctions, compared to the period prior to the entry into force of the telematic civil trial, varying between 22% of Milan and 40% of Rome. The maturity of the platform of the telematic civil process and the reliability of the entire infrastructure have then created the premises for the provision of innovative services, intended to transform the justice system into a source of information useful for investors, with particular regard to those interested in the deteriorated credit sector (non-performing loan). In fact, the current year saw the definitive implementation, starting in July, of the public sales portal, a single national marketplace for the publication and sale of all the goods, furniture and real estate, of all the procedures, a virtual place where the goods are made more visible and the sales more accessible, thanks to which, in the near future, it will be possible to participate in the auctions banned by the procedures through formulation of offers via telematics. The activities necessary for the implementation of the electronic register of property expropriation procedures, insolvency proceedings and crisis management instruments (so-called creditors' portal, referred to in the decree-law that dealt with the intervention on banks) are being completed. In this way, the foundations of the Common (competition money) system have been laid, through which it aims to provide a further instrument for the valorization of the deteriorated credits, in order to transform civil justice into a flywheel for the economy. The process of full digitisation of all civil proceedings is still under way with the aim of extending the platform of the telematic civil trial also to the offices of the peace judge. It is also worth pointing out that computerization policies, based on the positive experience gained in the civil sector, have also affected criminal justice. In fact, the dissemination of the information system of criminal cognition (SICP) has been completed at all the judicial offices of first and second degree, followed by a work of consolidation of the systems, evolution and integration of the applications. In particular, the dissemination of the system's acts and documents (A&D) functionality has been initiated and the deployment of the criminal enforcement information system (SIES) has begun in order to achieve the automation of all activities related to the execution of a penalty imposed with a judgment that has become irrevocable and therefore enforceable. Since last July, the electronic register of judicial administrators of seized and confiscated property has been fully functional. It is now being tested, and, therefore, the application P@ss will be put into operation shortly, for the issue of certificates showing the registrations, in the registers provided to the proxy offices, of the procedures during preliminary investigations. In this way, it will be possible for the lawyer to request the certificate of his interest and to download it without having to go to the competent office. Always with a view to the efficiency of the judicial system and the consequent cost savings, the measures taken to implement the system of technologies necessary to guarantee the participation at a distance in the processes (videoconference) and that in 2018, also in implementation of the regulatory changes introduced with the law of criminal reform, will have to be further strengthened. The overall consolidation and progressive evolution of the systems lays the foundations for the implementation of the telematic criminal process, which takes into account the particular sensitivity of the subjective positions involved, as well as the aspects related to data security and their processing. In this respect, it should be noted that the competent Directorate-General for Automated Information Systems has a plan under way to strengthen infrastructure activities related to interceptions which sees its first implementation in the purchase of dedicated servers and which will have to be fully deployed. In this context, the high degree of awareness reached regarding computer security has led to a decisive acceleration to the works for the realization of a protected network for the interception operations that will be able to find concrete realization also thanks to the use of resources drawn from the fund referred to in article 1, paragraph 140 of the law of budget for the year 2017. In order then to what the Senator has found about the opportunity to implement a national database of the jurisprudence of merit, it is useful to represent that, in implementation of the provisions of Article 7 of the Ministerial Decree 1 October 2015, the competent Directorate-General for Automated Information Systems has completed all the activities for the realization of this project and is now in phase of deployment of the infrastructure on the national territory. On this point, among other things, the MSM itself, together with the 7th Commission, adopted a whole series of criteria and set up a study group which is working precisely on the database of the substantive case law. These are issues that, however, also in the Joint Committee Ministry-CSM are addressed and followed with great attention, efficiency and synergy. More generally, it should be pointed out that computerization policies concerned the same organisation as the Ministry of Justice. Over the last few years, in fact, a work of overall reengineering of the Ministry's computer systems has been undertaken, accompanied by the search for suitable and effective organisational modules to a digitalized management of the documentary flows of the various ministerial groups, also in order to give full implementation to the code of the digital administration. In line with this new and modern organizational structure, we are also taking action on the training of administrative staff in service at ministerial offices and judicial offices, ensuring training courses on the use of applications. The Ministry also, through its peripheral technical structures (interdistrict coordinations automated information systems) regularly monitors the use of computer tools by the offices and takes care of the assistance, the training of judges and chancellors, as well as the adequacy of technological tools. With regard to the process of computerization of administrative justice, the Presidency of the Council of Ministers, which has been called upon to do so, points out that, over the last four years, the institutional site of administrative justice has completely changed and, in particular, it is not only possible today to find - even through a powerful search engine - all the decisions (judgments and opinions) a short time after its publication, but also to know the most important decisions, which are placed on the front page in immediate evidence, maximized and, in some cases, commented on. It also adds that the institutional site is enriched by two specials, one dedicated to the so-called "Madia" reform, the other to the new code of public contracts. On the official website are also published doctrinal studies of top scholars of administrative law. The institutional importance of the institutional site of administrative justice in recent times, however, is confirmed, as reported by the Presidency of the Council of Ministers, by the continuous increase in access, which almost doubled from the same date last year, up to more than 500 000 per month. The whole of the initiatives undertaken and the results achieved testify to the Ministry of Justice's utmost attention to the issue of computerization of justice and deliver a picture of the current efficient and rapid judicial system, in line with European standards, fly and no longer restrain for the economy and growth of our country, as desired in the question. Therefore, please come because it will certainly be our duty - and we will do so - to continue along this path and bring ever more satisfactory results for the citizens.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-898.ana.u33	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-898.ana.u34	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-898.ana.u35	GINETTI (PD). Madam President, I would like to begin by thanking the Undersecretary: in fact, my question dates back to 2013, so, as the answer has shown, it is clear that this matter has developed in order to make our justice system more efficient. We believe, in fact - I am very pleased to see that the Government has also worked in this direction - that the strengthening of computer systems and the introduction of ITC systems in general make the justice system not only more easily accessible but also transparent, not only for the professionals but also for the citizens, and enhance our credibility as a country also at an international level, in particular at the level of the European Union; a credibility within those rankings that saw us in positions of disadvantage at the beginning of 2013. Today, thanks to what the government has believed us, to the laws of stability that have allocated resources, we can improve our position and therefore believe that the justice system actually constitutes, within the country but also in the European Union, an important flywheel of economic development, because where justice works, in particular the civil one, investments and investors more easily face. I am very pleased that the computerization process can also concern the criminal system and that, from the point of view of administrative justice, much has been done in this direction.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-898.ana.u36	Question Time on the agenda is thus over.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-898.ana.u37	The motions, questions and questions received by the Presidency will be published in Annex B to today's report.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-898.ana.u38	The Senate will meet again in two public sessions on Tuesday 17 October, the first at 11 a.m. and the second at 4.30 p.m., with the following agenda: (See agenda) The sitting was closed at 17.09 a.m.
