ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-895.ana.u1	The sitting is open (9:33 a.m.). The Minutes shall be read. Mr Petraglia, secretary, read the Minutes of the afternoon sitting of the previous day.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-895.ana.u2	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-895.ana.u3	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-895.ana.u4	CANDIANI (LN-Aut). Madam President, I would like to ask for the vote on the Minutes, subject to a quorum check. Verification of quorum
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-895.ana.u5	I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators, by electronic procedure. (The request is supported). I therefore call on the senators to make their presence known by electronic means. (Follows the quorum check.) The Senate has a quorum. Resumption of the debate on the Minutes I put the Minutes to the vote. It's approved.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-895.ana.u6	The list of senators on leave and absent on assignment received from the Senate, as well as further communications to the Assembly, will be published in Annex B to today's Minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-895.ana.u7	I would warn you that qualified votes can be taken in the course of today's sitting by electronic means. Therefore, from this moment the period of 20 minutes from the notice provided for in Article 119, paragraph 1, of the Regulation (9:37 hours) begins.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-895.ana.u8	The next item is the debate on draft law Nos. 2681 already approved by the Chamber of Deputies, and 2211. The rapporteur, Senator Pagliari, has requested authorisation to carry out the oral report. No comments were made and the request was accepted. I therefore call the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-895.ana.u9	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, I now ask for permission to submit the written report.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-895.ana.u10	The Presidency shall authorise it accordingly.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-895.ana.u11	Mr Pagliari, rapporteur. Madam President, I would like to speak briefly just to thank the Commission's justice machinery and all its members, starting with the President, for the measure we are examining has been achieved by sharing objectives which must be given to everyone. The measure is in fact considered important, although perfect, and all political forces wanted to allow rapid approval, withdrawing the amendments and accepting to convert some issues into agendas that the Government has undertaken to take into consideration. This has made it easier for us to do so and allows us today to arrive without many amendments and agendas to this date. I repeat my thanks to all the political forces for their cooperation, which allows us to dismiss a measure expected by the European Union and the productive world, while at the same time marking a turning point in the regulation of insolvency. It is a measure which, unlike the Royal Decree of 16 March 1942, No 267, places at the centre the overcoming of the insolvency crisis and not the issue of debt and its punishment. It is a procedure that, starting from the preventive phase of the alert, develops entirely in the logic of researching... [[Brusio]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-895.ana.u12	Colleagues, please reduce the burn. I also find it difficult to hear the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-895.ana.u13	Mr Pagliari, rapporteur. I repeat, it is a procedure that develops in the logic of looking to the full for all the possibilities of overcoming the crisis in function of saving the entrepreneurial activities, the jobs and the families themselves of the entrepreneurs, avoiding the dramatic consequences that the failure entails according to the discipline provided for by the aforementioned Royal Decree. I shall conclude my speech here and hand over the written report. [[Applause from Senators Giletti and Lumia.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-895.ana.u14	I declare the general discussion open. Senator Stefani is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-895.ana.u15	Madam President, a reform of all competition procedures has long been required, because the legislation has become cumbersome and complex as a result of the various interventions that have taken place in this area. Reform is also necessary in order to create more concise, organic legislation. From now on we will no longer speak in terms of failure, since one of the objectives of the delegation law is precisely to eliminate this definition, as if there is a strongly negative connotation in it. We remember what it meant years ago to have failed: the loss of civil rights, not being able to vote and suffer a form of ostracism on the part of the community. Today, in fact, this bill not only provides for the elimination of this negative connotation, but facilitates and encourages a discussion of the business crisis with a view to business continuity. This is important because the failure, sometimes, results in bad management of companies, perhaps even arson or with aims of fraudulent bankruptcy; others, instead, it comes from the economic crisis and from difficulties of management deriving from the configuration of the market nowadays. Ensuring business continuity means eliminating the punitive aspect, which had to be in the competition procedure, and thus facilitating the possibility of recovery of the company. We have only raised a small question, which perhaps is not even so small, as regards the competences of the new bankruptcy court, which will become the business court. The delegation law includes criteria that will allow a amalgamation of the current jurisdictions of bankruptcy courts, which insist in all provincial capitals, which will thus be concentrated in some courts. The following problem has been raised by the Commission: this will create a number of difficulties, because the merger will not be total, but will concern certain types of procedures and not others, resulting in problems of interpretation and practical application. Last but not least, there may be problems with the workload in the current business courts and this overload, in this case, is difficult to bear. The bill of delegation should be virtually zero-cost, but no reform of justice can take place at zero-cost. There must be an increase in the number of staff or, in any case, a redefinition of them in order to allow procedures to be dealt with. These amalgamations and this concentration of the activities of the bankruptcy court in some courts, to the detriment of others, creates a form of separation between professionals and citizens with respect to the judiciary. This posting is not good, especially in the area of bankruptcy law, where perhaps it is not even appropriate. Competition procedures, as we know, are difficult and complex. Aware of these problems, we have proposed amendments which are intended to be at least indicative of the problem. Agendas have been presented, which we in the Northern League Group are asking to sign. The question of competences must be re-evaluated. The reform has arrived, but a little late. We had five years at our disposal, and yet we find ourselves in these last jokes trying to launch a reform of the bankruptcy law which is not even known if it will succeed, given the narrow margins. We will see in the course of the examination of the articles whether there is the possibility of improving the text and we therefore reserve the right to express our views on the measure in the explanation of vote. [[Applause from Senator Candiani]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-895.ana.u16	Senator Uras is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-895.ana.u17	Madam President, my speech is partly linked to some of the points made by Mr Stefani. This measure is very complex and aims to simplify, if possible, existing legislation. However, simplification cannot be done without taking into account the need to maintain clarity in the provisions and to avoid any ambiguity. In fact, in view of the issues addressed in the measure, there is a risk that there will be non-positive consequences for the business system and, above all, for those involved in the bankruptcy proceedings. Having said that, the other aspect I want to stress is the judicial management of bankruptcy proceedings. The simplification operation, with the concentration in a single court of judicial activities, is strongly contested by some curies, in particular those of Sardinia. I quote them because the President of the Order of Lawyers has shown very clearly the opposition to this merger operation and, consequently, also to the exclusion of actions with the competence of all the other courts in a region in which this centralization operation has already been done for economic reasons and some territories have already been affected by procedures for the abolition of judicial offices. I remember that we are talking about a very large region, where to the difficulties that surely the enterprises encounter in order to survive are added those connected to the treatment of the bankruptcy issues, that obviously harm even more those who end up inside this procedure. All this is done by the measure without providing for a reasonable transitional period, even if there is a hint to the hypothesis of a derogation in situations where, from the logistical point of view, the problem of the functioning of the courts is not yet resolved. I think that, as far as Sardinia is concerned (I say this also to the Government), it is not conceivable to move from one regime to another in a sudden way, but that this passage must be accompanied by a reorganization, as well as by a development of the judiciary staff, because otherwise we risk once again clogging some lines of judicial activity to the detriment of our economy, the interest of the citizens and also of the workers affected by those procedures. In addition, I believe that we should also consider the staff of our judicial offices, which is considerably insufficient. The problems of our justice very much concern the operational tools in his possession: the staff of the judiciary, the staff of the magistrates, but also the staff of the staff of the judicial offices throughout Italy. Therefore, when doing operations of this kind (because we know, unfortunately, that reforms, to be true, cannot be done with dried figs), it is necessary to put financial resources, to know where you go to touch the problem and how you can actually resolve it. I shall conclude by saying to the rapporteur and to the Government that I will present an agenda on the issue of Sardinia, which I hope will be accepted; with this agenda we are asking that essentially the Government thinks about managing the transition phase, without creating the dysfunctions that we have had to deal with in other circumstances, because we had not previously thought about how to structure the seats, strengthening the judiciary staff, the judicial offices with auxiliary and technical staff professionally competent, including the managerial levels, so that we could allow those seats to carry out their activities, especially when these fora are the result of a reform that has a profound impact on the activity and the procedural procedures.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-895.ana.u18	He's enlisted to speak Senator Falanga. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-895.ana.u19	Madam President, I would like to speak briefly because it seems that there is a need, felt by all the political groups, to dismiss this text which has come to us from the House without amendment, so that it can be a law within a few days and contribute to a process of modernization of the whole system of our companies, also in order to make the solution of problems relating to conditions of insolvency more topical. One of my first commitments in Parliament in 2001 was to comply with the bankruptcy law. As a lawyer, I was amazed that, in 2000 (and again in 2002 and 2003), a law of the fascist era, of 1942, which provided, of course, in relation to that time, provisions that went in the direction of the protection of companies, could be in force. But the times had changed and we in 2000 still spoke of the responsibility of the entrepreneur who, in the event of failure, was seen as a subject who had to "die": the distinction was not made between the death of the enterprise and that of the entrepreneur. For example, an entrepreneur who, certainly not on the assumption of criminal conduct such as fraudulent bankruptcy, had wrong the product placed on the market or had not been paid by his customers, lived a condition of insolvency and was therefore sanctioned by the aforementioned law of 1942 with some predictions: not being able to exercise the right to vote or no longer be able to have commercial relations of any kind. He was the subject of "death" and not the enterprise. In 2003 or 2004 (I don't remember the year well), I was in the House and was the rapporteur of the reform of bankruptcy law. I remember that we intervened to eliminate at least that criminal penalty profile that accompanied the entrepreneur in the procedure that he saw failed; we also intervened by giving greater powers to the insolvency curator. The absurdity was that, with the very limited powers of the bankruptcy curator, "at the death" of the entrepreneur was accompanied by the death of the enterprise, which was sold after years, when the instruments had become obsolete and there was no possibility of a reactivation of the enterprise, even with other subjects. This is because the rule provided for a number of limitations even in the curator's activities. Today, after the House had been approved, this draft delegation law came into the Chamber, on which - we all knew it - amendments, even reasonable, had been tabled in the Committee on Justice. However, we realized that the measure was a matter of urgency and that the possible modification of a part of it, although improving it, would cause it to lapse. This must be absolutely averted. The Government is delegated to take measures that first change the lexical profile: there will be no more talk of bankruptcy, also because it is linked to the aforementioned rule of 1942, but of judicial liquidation. This seems nothing, but basically it is important that we start to get away from the figure of the entrepreneur, owner of an enterprise that is experiencing an economic crisis, that consideration of the community and society that sees it as failed. The word "failed" has become in our vocabulary a term I would say almost derogatory and offensive. There is one point on which I would have liked to intervene: compensation. I remember a sentence of the Constitutional Court that raised in me an extraordinary astonishment. In fact, a question was raised of the unconstitutionality of the rule that, when there is no active mass in the bankruptcy, the insolvency curator receives no compensation, but the advisers of the judges, regardless of the value of the dispute, are paid the compensation through the coffers of the treasury. But the Constitutional Court answered in a way that I, as a young lawyer, called supermarket culture because the Court said: what is the problem? It is a practice in courts that, when a curator or a professional is entrusted with a cure which he has no assets, for which he does not receive any compensation, he is usually entrusted with another procedure which presents the asset and from which he can recover the compensation. I called it supermarket culture, because it was almost like saying, take two and pay one. I did not like this sentence because, with all the respect that I have always nurtured and I have for the Constitutional Court, it discouraged me in moving forward in my work of interpreting the rules of law. Today we eliminate from the competition procedures of extraordinary administration for large companies the failure of office - we say in the text - and we ask the government to take measures. Okay, but watch out! I want to point out that the Senate has a bill to delegate to the Government for the revision and amendment of the rules relating to the extraordinary administrations of large companies in crisis. Therefore, the Government must be careful in issuing the decrees relating to this delegation, because it must create exact coordination with the other text, which concerns large companies in crisis. I do not know what the solution - the Government will study it - will be, however, when a large company in crisis is placed in extraordinary administration, the commissioners must proceed, in application of the current law, to the realization of a program. The current rule provides for two: rehabilitation or disposal. In the event that the program cannot be implemented, there is automatically an official bankruptcy declared by the bankruptcy court. It is said that failure is no longer there and that the government must avoid it. There can no longer be legal winding-up in the framework of extraordinary administrative procedures. Something, however, must also be foreseen, otherwise the extraordinary administration programme - which, in the state, provides for a duration of two years, which can be extended for a further six months (i.e. two years and six months) - and, in the end, if the programme is not implemented, creditors are not protected. They tell me to cut. The colleague of the League, Senator Candiani, when he speaks, demands from all of us the utmost attention; when others intervene he shows signs of impatience that I refer to the sender. I shall conclude because, all in all, beyond the remarks and observations that Senator Caliendo and others made in the Commission, I believe that the urgency of dismissing this text is paramount and prevailing. It will then be the Government, with legislative decrees, that adopts and transposes the valuable comments that colleagues have made both in the Commission and in the Assembly.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-895.ana.u20	He's enlisted to speak Senator Candiani. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-895.ana.u21	Madam President, first of all I would like to reassure Senator Falanga of the appreciation given to his eloquence, which always fills this House very well. Madam President, on the other hand, we are very keen to see the content and wishes which are at the root of this very important piece of legislation implemented. Our country is experiencing a very strong economic crisis for a long time, which obviously produces disarray among companies. The issue of bankruptcy law or, in this case, crises and insolvency situations is enormous: we go, unfortunately, from the small circumstance of the country, where the craftsman is faced with an insurmountable situation, to the great industrial crises, such as those we are living and seeing in these days with the ILVA or elsewhere. These are extremely different realities and it is also difficult to approach them. In all this, however, there is a necessity and concerns those who find themselves, and not painfully, but because of the impossibility that has occurred, in this situation. We distinguish - and it is necessary - the professionals of failure, which unfortunately in every reality exist, from the situations in which honest people find themselves unfortunately living conditions of insolvency and inability to face the debts that an unstable market makes heavy as boulders. The objective must be aimed at those who operate in the market and who, risking on their own, find themselves unable to fulfil their commitments. These crises need to be resolved without social harm to those who remain involved. I am thinking of the case of the construction cooperatives, the construction companies, the operators who build the house using also the advances given by those in that house who have to live there: when these subjects face situations of insolvency or difficulty, at that point it is a catastrophe not only for them, but also for all those connected to them. Anyone who loses the house he's invested all his savings on can no longer find a way out of it. These are really complicated situations. We are discussing, therefore, an important measure, on which I urge the Government, even if this might seem paradoxical, at 10:10 today, October 11, after yesterday's lack of legal number, the Government has gone under and there is a context of instability; however, it is important, because in the text there is a delegation that must be implemented in twelve months. If the government implements the delegation quickly or if it lets the time pass, overtaking the next legislature, it can make a difference. I do not want to meditate on the substance and content of the delegation; it is the responsibility of the Government to implement it. But certainly on the times we must be clear and clear: the times must be tight. We cannot wait any longer for alternative solutions to what is now brutally called failure. We have a far-reaching regulatory system, consisting of overlaps and stratifications that over time have made everything more fragmented; instead of making solutions easier, they have made them more complicated. It should be recalled that the roots of the same bankruptcy law date back to Royal Decree No 267 of 1942. The Rordorf Commission has for some time completed its considerations and entrusted them to Parliament through the Government, with this bill. I can see that Mr Orlando and Mr Guidi's signatures are on the text, as it should be remembered. Government, it's been a long time! We must be much faster on these measures. There are some critical issues, which have been raised by lawyers and, of course, by the social partners. We are convinced that it is not yet the ideal measure, but we are sure that this can be a useful measure, if in the delegations the Government will take into account all the considerations emerged from the orders of lawyers, civilists, criminalists, professionals, all those who are interested and who know have addressed their reflections to the government. We cannot still regard failure as a social disaster. We are in a condition in which the risk of insolvency is, unfortunately, on the agenda for any company. To consider the possibility that those who are working in the enterprise can come out of it with a high head, without there being social discredit and economic collapse, it is necessary, in order to allow a recovery and, above all, the social and economic hold of the smaller enterprises. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-895.ana.u22	She's enlisted to speak Senator Filippin. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-895.ana.u23	Madam President, ladies Senators and Senators, the delegation to the Government today to our attention, consisting of 16 articles born from the experience and proposals of the so-called Rordorf Commission, deals with a crisis of enterprise, an extremely delicate discipline, because it concerns the functioning of the economic fabric of our country, at times when that fabric is in difficulty. The past times and the crisis that has affected Italy - and not only - have demonstrated the need to adapt the legislation, both substantive and procedural, in order to best address the difficulties of the company, preserving, as far as possible, the production capacity of the system. The objective of the bill at our examination, the Senate Act 2681, is therefore to intervene in an organic way on a discipline that goes back, in its cornerstones, to the law of 1942, which has certainly been modified, even significantly, during these years - I remember in particular the amendment of 2005 - and which, however, has served with such modifications the compromise of its homogeneity and its organicity. We are at a time when the speed, speed and dynamism of economic phenomena are such that the legislator is often incapable of keeping pace with them: trying to respond to this dynamism with a precise discipline risks being useless and without effects, if not detrimental to that wealth that one would like to preserve. We must then reach - and this is the objective of the reform - organic disciplines, within which it is possible to identify clear principles that can offer interpreters, even in the face of new phenomena, the possibility of obtaining the rule to be applied to the concrete case, so that it is not necessary to constantly chase economic phenomena, but it is possible, precisely, from clear principles, within homogeneous laws and with its own internal coherence, to obtain those rules that allow interpreters to intervene, even in the face of sudden changes in society and the economy. This is, therefore, the great objective that must be assigned to the organic reform of the discipline of the crisis of enterprise, which is a nerve and delicate part of our legal system, precisely because it affects the economic system, when it faces the situations of difficulty. The draft law delegates to our examination, however, has a second objective: to seek a new balance, more correct, between the interests, often opposed, present in the discipline of business crises and competition procedures. We know that in this discipline there is the interest of creditors, who, of course, are entitled to the satisfaction, as much as possible, of their credit reasons and as quickly as possible. There is also the interest of the company, of the company in crisis, which concerns the enterprise itself, but also the overall economic fabric, which is interested in not dispersing the values represented by that enterprise, first of all the employment one. There is also the interest of healthy companies in preventing the continuation of the crisis of decoctionary companies, which remain on the market, from distorting the functioning of the market to the detriment of companies which, on the other hand, work without crisis conditions. If, in fact, we leave on the market for too long companies that, instead, are in condition of pre-insolvency or, however, of crisis, we risk to alter also the mechanism of operation of the market. The bankruptcy law, as has been said, has undergone several changes over the last ten years, but the repeated normative interventions, motivated more often than not by the failure of individual enterprises and therefore by occasional necessity, were not always characterized by the requirement of urgency, so it has become increasingly necessary to intervene with a discipline that would lead to a rationalization of the system of procedures. The measure we are discussing today is innovative in several respects and revolves around some key principles that can be summarized in the following points: the centrality of the phenomenon of insolvency also in its sense of crisis compared to the subjective qualification of the debtor, thus allowing all debtors to have access to institutions aimed at settling debts; management of the crisis and insolvency of the group; prevention of insolvency from the first signs of crisis in the perspective of the preservation of corporate values; accountability of governance bodies and the entrepreneur; residuality of liquidation, intended as the last instrument to compose the crisis; substitution of the term "failure" with that of "solvency". With this measure solutions have been introduced that, until now, were unknown in our order. One of the most important innovations of the reform is the introduction of crisis alert and assisted settlement procedures, which fulfil the important function of bringing out in a timely manner the state of crisis of those who are unable to fulfil their obligations. With a view to stimulating the early emergence of the crisis and, therefore, the moment at which the likelihood of future insolvency is found, Article 4 delegates the Government to introduce the procedures of alert and assisted settlement of the crisis, as an out-of-court and confidential instrument of support to enterprises, aimed at a rapid analysis of the causes of the economic and financial malaise of the company, destined to lead to a service of assisted composition of the crisis. This procedure represents a time to strengthen the chances of success of a planned and structured path of rehabilitation; a path that the company, especially if small, in times that do not have to be very long, should undertake by being joined by professional subjects in the sector with experience and proven professionalism. Not only that, but it is essential that, in this context, the judiciary is also able to carry out its role in a comprehensive manner, also given the clearly specialized nature of legal competences in the context of competitive procedures. It is also expected that many public bodies will be involved, such as pension funds and pension funds, which will become an active part of monitoring the economic and financial performance of the entrepreneur in a constructive way. It is essential that be brought to light promptly behaviors that, in the long run, would prove extremely damaging to the company, also in order to prevent - over time - the impossibility to meet, on the part of the company, its obligations, has a domino effect on all the other subjects with which it operates, starting with creditors and naturally continuing with the workers and all those enterprises that act as satellite to the companies in crisis. But innovation does not stop at the preventive phase of alerting, aimed at the early emergence of the business crisis and its assisted resolution, as Senator Falanga mentioned earlier. The vocabulary also changes, because no one can be more apostrophated as "failed" and the word "failure" and the corresponding procedure will disappear, which will be replaced by the term "court settlement." The procedural rules are simplified, providing for the uniqueness of the procedure intended for the examination of all situations of crisis and insolvency; the competent court is identified in relation to the size and type of the competition procedures, assigning the procedures of greater size to the court of the enterprises (specialised section at the level of the court of appeal district). Allow me to comment, so to speak, on the outside: the effort to specialize, that is, to respond quickly and competently to the problem, must be made by the whole world of justice and jurisdiction. The effort was called for by the lawyer, but the same need must also be borne by the judiciary; and often this effort is not done. As I said, the bankruptcy procedure is eliminated by replacing it with the liquidation procedure. So the procedure also changes, with the elimination of the bankruptcy and with the curator who becomes the "dominus" of the new one with strengthened powers and the possible outlet of an agreed of a liquidation nature. In closing the winding-up procedure, the curator may also be entrusted with the part-financing of the assets between creditors, without prejudice to the possibility of the parties to propose opposition. In addition, priority should be given to dealing with proposals that ensure business continuity, considering the liquidation as the last ratio. The regulation of privileges, which has been considered obsolete, has also been revised and provided for a system of non-possession securities. The delegation facilitates access to the recovery plans and debt restructuring agreements; it revisits, on the basis of verified practices and critical issues, the legislation on the preventive arrangement, considered to date the most functional instrument among those in force; it eliminates as a competitive procedure the compulsory administrative liquidation, which remains only as a possible outlet of the administrative procedures aimed at the detection and the sanctioning of the serious managerial irregularities of the enterprise; it provides for an exbitation of law for the insolvencies of smaller dimensions; it amends the legislation on crises from overindebtedness; filling a gap of the current bankruptcy law, it introduces, finally, a specific discipline of crisis and insolvency of the groups of enterprises. I conclude, hoping that, thanks to the joint work of Government and Parliament, and I thank here once again my fellow senators who have privileged the rapid approval of their legitimate aspiration to improve the text, we can dismiss a text that finally brings clarity and homogeneity in the bankruptcy discipline, a text in which we no longer find the word failure, which is so scary, but that provides all the actors who gravitate around a firm valid tools to overcome the moment of difficulty and continue to be protagonists in the business world and fly for the economy of our country. [[Applause from the PD Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-895.ana.u24	He's enlisted to speak Senator Lucidi. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-895.ana.u25	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, members of the Government, I would like to address Senator Filippin and tell her that I understand how you ex-Bersanians, then neo-Rentians, and now we will see what will come out of the next... [[Comments by Senator Buemi and Group PD.]] Calm down, Buemi! Go to the bar! Take a valerian and calm down for a second! [[Comments from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-895.ana.u26	Colleagues, let's take it easy. Senator Buemi, let Senator Lucidi speak. However, in his speech, I urge you not to attack colleagues who have just spoken directly.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-895.ana.u27	LUCIDES (M5S). Madam President, I was just saying to Senator Filippin: you, who are used to changing names and also colors (so a green forest car becomes a car of the Carabinieri), also in this case you have put a bit of a blow in it, because, on a style derived from a very globalized approach, which is very close to that of your Minister Calenda, we have used a bit of a Chinese method. I believe that almost everyone knows, in fact, that the word crisis does not exist in the Chinese language, so the ideogram that our Chinese friends use to identify the crisis actually means new opportunities. So, you think we're doing this. However, at the base of the extraordinary administrations, of the bankruptcy agreements, of the liquidations, there are people and there are families. And I do not believe that these families and these people simply need to change the name to what is happening in order to bring a wave of optimism. And why do I say that? I say this because the Ministry of Economic Development, which is not present here as the owner of the measure, but is in it with all the shoes, has a fundamental role in the management of the administrations of the crisis of enterprise. [[Senator Manconi's comments.]] A fundamental point, which no longer concerns the measure, is the fact that the management of the extraordinary administration has been removed from parliamentary control and this fits in with those actions aimed at making the government as authoritarian as possible in relation to our parliamentary function. Business crisis administrations, liquidations and bankruptcy agreements are not only affecting citizens, but also directly affecting businesses. Let us quote some figures: the Mediobanca case cost us citizens 4 billion. The administration of Parmalat, with Enrico Bondi and his staff, cost us 32 million euros. As a matter of fact, it is precisely in this measure that a rule is inserted, the one that was then launched by ministerial decree by Minister Calenda, to appoint a committee of experts who chooses its commissioners. Among the three experts is the aforementioned Enrico Bondi. This beehive contains the theme of bankruptcy agreements and the gold compensation of commissioners and consultants. I am not here to resume all the discourse and controversy, even of a judicial nature, that have unleashed for bankruptcy courts. I quote from all an important case that has been handled by the Ministry, which is why the rule for the reappropriation by Parliament of the management of certain crises was included in the provision. My land was hit by the crisis of the former Novelli group, which was then managed by the Ministry. The Ministry has its own business crisis management table called UGV (Unity for the management of business disputes in crisis), with more than 120 open tables for companies with more than 500 employees. Well, it was precisely at that table that the company was transferred to a new entity and guarantees of continuity of work, business and other prospects were provided. Those guarantees, provided with the approval of the Ministry gathered at that table and with the participation of the Regions and Municipalities pertaining to that territory, were completely disregarded. The result - which is part of a sadly longer list of failures - is that, in spite of those prospects, given about ten months ago, we have even reached the pre-failure of two companies. This is to light a further beacon on this world. The other issue that I would like to bring to your attention in general debate, ladies and gentlemen, is that of specialised offices, but it must be analysed with reference to the process that led to the reordering of the judicial geography of our courts. It is clear that this issue is part of a path that started a few years ago. To ask for specialization in a discipline such as bankruptcy law and, above all, according to criteria that would allow only a few cities to have a section specializing in bankruptcy law (we are talking about about eight magistrates and there are few courts that can afford such a specialization), it means once again to further remove justice not from the citizen this time, but from the business world, freeing it from its roots in the territory. On the other hand, I believe it is essential that certain issues can be accessible because, I repeat, if we reduce the number of bankruptcy sections in such a drastic way, we are also involving companies, citizens and workers who very often become creditors and therefore are active in litigation and other proceedings. The combination may seem to be a simplification and an optimization, but all this is detrimental to the citizen and the companies who will have to turn to specialist sections that will most likely find themselves far from what should be their natural headquarters. For these reasons, on an agenda, we have called for this measure to be re-examined and for the provision to be made, in the future, that the rule in our examination may in some way be "glissed" for a fundamental reason. In fact, this new passage (which, I repeat, must not be considered as freed and as a separate measure), is part of the beehive of that reform of judicial geography that began with the closure of a large number of courts and that has affected all our territories. All of us, in fact, have been intercepted by this problem, because each of us has its own territory that obviously wants, rightly and legitimately to protect. It is clear that the provision in our examination will give a hard blow to all the courts that remain alive with great dignity, so we feel it wrong when it asks for the amalgamation of all bankruptcy sections. At the same time, however, we ask that there be an opening, for example, in the agricultural sector, with sections that may not be specialized and not just composed of magistrates but that have specific competences and also open to advice and whatever else. As far as specialisation is concerned, this question relates not only to the number of magistrates that the section may make available or not. In fact, in this regard, the same error is being made when the reorder of judicial geography has been approved: we are, that is, regardless of the catchment area of the court itself. If we do not enter a numerical criterion relating to the area of judicial geography of a particular court, we do not do a complete job. In fact, many courts that have already been penalized, have been merged, have not been provided with sufficient resources in terms of the Registry but above all of magistrates, have inherited a very large basin of users. In my view, therefore, this is another criterion that we should have considered in this measure. It is not enough, therefore, just an objective criterion on the fundamental actors of the bankruptcy section, but it is also necessary to consider the catchment area. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-895.ana.u28	On behalf of the Assembly, I greet the teachers and students of the Liceo Scientifico "Leonardo da Vinci" in Sora, in the province of Frosinone, who are attending our work. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-895.ana.u29	He's enlisted to speak Senator Panizza. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-895.ana.u30	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, representative of the Government, the draft law that we are going to approve today is, albeit with some aspects that can still be improved, a positive novelty. First of all because it takes into account that the economic crisis that has gripped our country for many years has caused many situations of corporate crisis that, not always faultily, have led to the request to adhere to the agreed budget, to the declarations of forced liquidation or of real bankruptcy. For this reason we judge positive the will of the provision to promote every initiative that leads the company to avoid the bankruptcy. From the replacement of the term "failure" by the term "judicial clearance," to the replacement of the declaration of ex officio bankruptcy with the concepts of state of crisis and insolvency, to the introduction of an early warning phase aimed at anticipating the emergence of the crisis, conceived as an out-of-court and confidential instrument of support for companies, destined to lead to an assisted settlement of the crisis. As well as the possibility for the debtor to address the court to request protective measures to conclude the out-of-court agreement and the provision of premium measures for the entrepreneur who addresses the alert procedure. We therefore welcome all the measures that encourage the instruments of out-of-court settlement of the crisis, as well as the principles and criteria laid down for the reform of the preventive arrangement and the discipline of the remuneration of professionals in charge of procedures. Among the delegations entrusted to the Government with this provision there is also the discipline of the composition of crises from overindebtedness and the system of privileges and guarantees. An area closely connected with the so-called agreed budget, which now becomes only agreed in continuity, on which I, and other colleagues, have intervened in the past with several initiatives to request a revision of the instrument, and avoid its abuse or distorted use, to the detriment of creditors. I am referring in particular to the so-called blank agreement, which is used too often as an escamotage to delay payments to creditors over time, or even to evade them, through the establishment of new companies that took over the business. The data that we have tell you a lot about how many operators have used the arrangement to which they have had access indiscriminately and without filter any, companies that on the one hand wanted only to postpone or evade payments, others that instead were already decoctioned and not healable in any way. It is therefore right to intervene to revisit in depth an instrument which, although born with the noblest intentions, has produced disconcerting situations. Disconcerting because, through the arrangement, in many cases, the smartest or the most incapable has redone or discharged his difficulties on the skin of the honest. The company that was in crisis, in some cases simply because of its bad and senseless management, has relied on the company that produced, worked, who knew how to manage himself in a prudent and responsible way. As self-employed, we have spoken on this subject many times, both through agendas and with amendments adopted in the conversion process of Decree-Law No 83 of 2015, with urgent measures in the matter of bankruptcy. Finally, I presented bill No 2211 on the agenda today and in fact incorporated it into the measure under discussion, because it is also strong of the comparison with business associations and with important sectors of the crafts world, we are convinced that the agreement deserves a more robust and comprehensive review. Ultimately, we must make the agreement in continuity a balanced instrument between creditors' rights and the need not to disperse important corporate assets, because what has happened in recent years is something unacceptable. The government will have 12 months to implement the decrees. While we share the agreement in continuity, we hope that a minimum limit of the previously agreed creditors will be met, because even today, unfortunately, deadly speculations are taking place with creditors who are not paid and companies that detect firms in difficulty, which produce significant profits. I therefore believe that the rights of creditors before the agreement must also be more satisfied than they are today and that this injustice must be removed as much as possible through the measure we are examining. [[Applause from Senator Bondi.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-895.ana.u31	The general debate is closed.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-895.ana.u32	I call the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-895.ana.u33	Madam President, I should like to make a few brief comments. The first of these has emerged in a number of speeches, but I would like to make it very clear, apart from some comments that have come from the debate and which have tended to trivialise the concept. The reform we are examining is based on a completely revolutionary criterion in relation to the previous framework. The business crisis is not assumed from the point of view of penalising the entrepreneur, whose responsibilities will be established. The aim of the new bankruptcy law is to try to verify all possibilities to overcome the crisis, to prevent the country from losing an entrepreneurial unity and losing jobs. I believe that this is absolutely decisive and I think that those who have attended the courts know what this means in relation to the current bankruptcy proceedings. With the latter, the debtor becomes a victim, no longer has the right to speak and must suffer all the consequences of a procedure aimed at ascertaining the responsibilities and does not deal, if not to a minor extent, with the undertaking and its destiny. In the logic of this measure, instead, starting from the state of crisis, we try to verify the conditions to save the enterprise and therefore, in perspective, also the chances that the entrepreneur gone into crisis must have in his future life, without remaining penalized by an affair like the failure, that can happen also regardless of personal responsibility. If these are there, as the law will keep exactly the system of bankruptcies already in force, there will be no discount, but a more modern approach and corresponding to the current situation. And from this point of view, I want to ensure that within the delegated decrees the issue of the consequences for the entrepreneur will be properly assessed, with a strong emphasis between the insolvency attributable to the entrepreneur and the one due instead to causes superior to the government of the situation on his part. I believe that the example is extremely timely, in the sense that we are coming out of a decade-long crisis which, in some sectors, has led to the failure of countless companies because of factors that did not depend on their management (one among others, the construction sector, as a result of the contraction in the sector). From this point of view, I guarantee that there will be no goodism and that, in relation to the agendas presented - which the Government intends to accept, as it can say more authoritatively than I myself, there will be a great deal of attention to balancing the responsibilities properly in this perspective. There is a second issue that has been highlighted: that of the courts' districts. The opinions which will be expressed on the agendas on this subject will make it clear that the prospects opened with the delegated decrees, in accepting these same agendas, will give a balanced implementation of the subject. Finally, I would like to add one element, among the many others that would be there, which seems to me very important. In this measure, the rules governing the bankruptcy of groups of undertakings are introduced in a comprehensive manner. For those who work in the sector and deal with this activity, this is a very important issue, because the failure of the group of companies allows to some extent to limit the scope of the game of the Chinese boxes, as it involves the involvement of the companies of the same group and a joint treatment of their bankruptcy can allow to highlight the interweavings, the illicit operations and the transversal responsibilities within the group of enterprises. [[Applause from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-895.ana.u34	I call the representative of the Government.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-895.ana.u35	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, I speak very quickly to thank both the members of the Commission for the work they have done and all the parliamentary groups which have made it possible to achieve the objective of bringing this reform to this House and to proceed to its approval. Also from the speeches made this morning during the general discussion emerges a substantial sharing of the cultural approach that characterizes this reform that - let us remember - intervenes on a royal decree of 1942 and allows the overcoming of the stigma of failure, introducing very important novelties that both the rapporteur and other senators have highlighted and on which I do not dwell. I just want to say that the Government shares some of the critical points that emerged during the general discussion, in particular with reference to the need to find a balanced contemporaneousness between the needs of specialization and those of proximity and adequate compliance in the times of the new territorial structuring, as well as to consider the need to distinguish the consequences according to the behaviour of the entrepreneur. Now, with the examination of agendas, we will try to clarify these aspects with the adoption of some proposals which go in this direction. I would like to end by thanking the House, because the approval of the reform today allows the Government to exercise its delegation in time compatible with the end of the legislature.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-895.ana.u36	We shall now proceed to the examination of the articles of bill No 2681, in the text approved by the Chamber of Deputies. We shall proceed to the vote on Rule 1. BIGNAMI (Misto-MovX). We call for the vote to be taken by simultaneous ballot by electronic means. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Article 1. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the examination of Article 2, on which amendments and agendas have been tabled which are intended to be presented and on which I invite the rapporteur and the representative of the Government to give their views.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-895.ana.u37	Madam President, I am against all the amendments. I am in favour of the G2.100 agenda, provided that the following rewording is introduced, which concerns the arrangements. In the first paragraph of the device it is requested to replace the words "allow to eliminate or, at least, mitigate the responsibility of the administrators" by the words "introduce in the order premium measures in relation to the responsibility of the directors". The second point of the device is also requested to be deleted. I am therefore in favour of the G2.101 agenda (text 2), provided that the following rewording is introduced. In point (g) of the premises, replace the words "includes those with the surrounding area of at least 200,000 inhabitants" with the words "includes," except in detail and specific reasons, with a district of not less than 200,000 inhabitants. The same correction must be made to the first paragraph of the device, where there is the same sentence, which is asked to replace with the words I have just read. I also voted against the G2 102 agenda. I then express a favourable opinion on the agenda for G2.103, provided that the following rewording of the device is introduced: It commits the Government to consider whether it is appropriate to identify the courts competent to deal with ordinary insolvency proceedings relating to so-called upper threshold entrepreneurs in a number significantly higher than those in which the specialized section on business is established and tends to number not less than two for each court of appeal district, in order to prevent the reform from slowing down the time of the procedures resulting from an exponential and inproportionate increase in the number of procedures assigned to large courts that are not manageable with the resources given in question. Finally, I am in favour of the G2104 agenda.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-895.ana.u38	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-895.ana.u39	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-895.ana.u40	LO MORO (Art. 1-MDP). Madam President, I would like to add my signature to the agenda for G2,103 and I welcome the rewording proposed by the rapporteur. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator Caliendo, do you agree with the rewording proposals put forward by the rapporteur?
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-895.ana.u41	Madam President, as far as the agenda for the G2100 is concerned, I would like to point out that this agenda had already been accepted in the Commission, as it is formulated, both by the rapporteur and by the Government (I do not know whether the rapporteur has forgotten). I would therefore ask you to reconsider the proposed reformulation. With regard to the agenda G2.101 (text 2), I am in favour of the rewording proposed by the rapporteur. However, I would like to ask the Government and the rapporteur to take account of the fact that Senator Casson's G2.103 (text 2) is the same issue: it would therefore be appropriate for the same opinion to be given on both. I appreciate what the rapporteur has said, but - if I understand correctly - introducing the principle of two courts per district, albeit indicatively, seems to want to follow the same logic of error that led to the famous three courts per district in the revision of judicial districts. I think that the rewording of the proposal by the rapporteur, which I accept with regard to my agenda, can also be extended to the agenda presented by Senator Casson, so as to have a single answer. Otherwise, we will have a Parliament that gives two or three different interpretations to the same issue.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-895.ana.u42	Let's hear Senator Pagliari on these remarks.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-895.ana.u43	Madam President, as far as the agenda for the G2100 is concerned, if it has already been adopted in the Commission, I think we must maintain the wording proposed there. However, since it has already been accepted into the Commission, I would ask Senator Caliendo to withdraw it, as it is useless. As regards the agendas G2.101 (text 3) and G2.103 (text 2), the two wordings do not in fact contradict each other. In fact, on one agenda there is reference to a measure of not less than 200,000 inhabitants, in the other to a number of courts not less than two for each district of Court of Appeal. So the two predictions are basically not at odds. In any case, I have no difficulty in standardising the two wordings, but I would like to stress that if we are uniform, with regard to the concerns of the world of lawyers, we are going to narrow the perspective. On the one hand, we have the criterion of not less than 200,000 inhabitants; on the other hand, the minimum criterion of the two courts for each Court of Appeal. I would sincerely avoid deleting one of the two criteria, because they are not in conflict and incompatible. Then, I repeat, if you want to try to unify the two concepts and introduce them both on the same agenda, you can do that. But it seems to me that there are two positive criteria in relation to what is desired.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-895.ana.u44	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-895.ana.u45	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-895.ana.u46	Mr ASTORRE (PD). Madam President, if Senator Caliendo agrees, I would like to add my signature to the agenda G2.101 (text 3).
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-895.ana.u47	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-895.ana.u48	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-895.ana.u49	Mr Giovanardi (PL-Id) Madam President, I too would like to be able to add my signature to the agenda G2.101 (text 3).
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-895.ana.u50	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-895.ana.u51	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-895.ana.u52	STEFANI (LN-Aut). Madam President, we also ask, with the permission of Senator Caliendo, to be able to add the signature to the agendas of the day G2.100 and G2.101 (text 3).
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-895.ana.u53	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-895.ana.u54	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-895.ana.u55	RUTA (PD). Madam President, I would just like to point out that I believe that what Mr Pagliari says is true, namely that the agendas are not incompatible with each other. However, I would ask you to be able to sign Senator Casson's G2.103 (text 2) agenda, which clearly defines how the competent courts are to be identified. But I believe that the two proposals can be condensed into one agenda. The rapporteur, Mr Pagliari, is right. If we make this effort, I think we will all have an even clearer reason than an address that we can give the government for the delegation. We would go exactly in the right direction, because I believe that the need to focus not only on the big courts is unanimously shared, because it would be a slowdown. This seems to me to be a positive rationalization.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-895.ana.u56	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-895.ana.u57	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-895.ana.u58	LUCIDES (M5S). Madam President, I too would like, if possible, to sign the agenda G2.101 (text 3).
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-895.ana.u59	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-895.ana.u60	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-895.ana.u61	Rossi Luciano (AP-CpE-NCD). Madam President, if Senator Caliendo agrees, I would like to subscribe to the agenda G2.101 (text 3) which undoubtedly deserves attention, and it seems to me, from the impressions we are gathering, that the Government can give more more attention.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-895.ana.u62	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-895.ana.u63	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-895.ana.u64	DE PETRIS (Misto-SI-SEL). Madam President, we are signing Senator Casson's G2.103 (text 2) agenda and we are asking, if possible, for a single agenda, to which, of course, this subscription would be transferred.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-895.ana.u65	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-895.ana.u66	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-895.ana.u67	BUCCARELLA (M5S). Madam President, I and the other Members of the Group are also tempted, as Mr Lucidi has done, to ask for his signature to be added to the agendas of G2.101 (text 3) and G2.103 (text 2). However, if it is possible to carve out a time for the Government and the rapporteurs to reconsider the situation, which is obviously one of the crucial points since there is a widespread interest in the issue of the judicial geography of the new courts that will deal with the new competitive procedures, I would invite the Government and the majority to change their assessment - with some very slight rewording - on the agenda G2.102, at the first signature of Senator Lucidi. This agenda aims to maintain the current competences in the Italian courts that survived the first "desertifying wave" of the last Governments, with a forecast of the extension and adaptation of the staff of the magistrates and staff even with non-togated components having certain characteristics. If the Government, with the acceptance of the reworded agendas of Senators Casson and Caliendo, makes this commitment - as much as an agenda may be worth - to find alternative solutions taking into consideration the population living in the surrounding area or the number of courts per court of appeal, perhaps it would be appropriate to reconsider it now and maintain territorial competences as they are currently, providing reasonable measures for staff adjustment. I do not, therefore, ask to add my signature to the agendas that are gathering so much consensus, although acceptable to some parties, but I would support, for the 5 Star Movement Group, the opportunity to "own" the agenda G2.102 and to ask for its acceptance.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-895.ana.u68	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-895.ana.u69	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-895.ana.u70	Mr Rizzotti (FI-PdL XVII). Madam President, I would like to put my signature on agenda G2.101 (text 3).
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-895.ana.u71	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-895.ana.u72	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-895.ana.u73	DE PIETRO (Misto-FdV). Madam President, I too would like to place my signature on the agendas of G2.101 (text 3) of Senator Caliendo and G2.103 (text 2) of Senator Casson. I believe that Senator Bignami also agrees with this request.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-895.ana.u74	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-895.ana.u75	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-895.ana.u76	URAS (Mixed-Mist-CP-S). Madam President, in asking on behalf of myself and Mr Stefano to sign the agendas for G2.101 (text 3) and G2.103 (text 2), I would, however, like to say a word in favour of the unification, if possible, of the device, because perhaps we would be able to obtain a formulation that would help the different situations in our country. I say this because these are subjects of this kind with a simplified representation of Italy, but that is not the case. There are regions that have concentrated millions of inhabitants in little space - such as Rome and Milan for example - and there are situations where, instead, the inhabitants are "spamata" in vast territories, moreover little served from the point of view of the local transport networks and in great difficulty from this point of view. The first view of the state - the constitutional state - was to bring service closer to the citizen, not to oblige the citizen to approach service; this principle, which is sacrosanct and which we should bring back to the norm in everything we do, probably, even in this circumstance, we have failed to implement it. I therefore support, together with my colleague Mr Stefano, the two agendas, which seem to me to be a step forward towards a specification, but if it were possible to do a rewording that would cover this concept, perhaps it would be better.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-895.ana.u77	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-895.ana.u78	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-895.ana.u79	FLORIS (FI-PdL XVII). Madam President, on behalf of the Forza Italia Group we support Mr Caliendo's agenda, G2.101 (text 3).
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-895.ana.u80	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-895.ana.u81	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-895.ana.u82	FALANGA (ALA-SCLP). Madam President, I also appreciated the intention of some of my colleagues to ensure that the two agendas, Senator Caliendo's G2.101 (text 3) and Senator Casson's G2.103 (text 2) can be brought together on a single agenda. However, I must point out that there is such a substantial difference between the two agendas that it does not make such a hypothesis possible. Senator Casson proposes to implement the staff of the judges of the bankruptcy chambers already existing with the participation, inside, of professional figures such as lawyers who have gained some experience and accountant doctors who had the same requirements. Well, I think that all this has a very substantial effect on the compositions of the colleges of the courts of the bankruptcy chambers; among other things, beyond technical competence, a bankruptcy procedure, as we know, is full of exceptions, which are of an exquisitely procedural nature and which require specific competence, not only in commercial matters, but also in matters of civil procedural law. Now, to envisage an implementation, as Senator Casson suggests, in one verse, seems difficult to me to realize; on the other hand, we cannot leave the current competence to the courts, as they are today. There is probably no experience on the ground in the judicial offices; then there are small courts that do not have a staff that can guarantee the establishment of a section specializing in bankruptcy matters. To expect, however, as Senator Caliendo does, to urge the Government to identify those courts that can guarantee a high level of professionalism and an adequate institution of bankruptcy sections seems to me the most reasonable way. Therefore, with the entire ALA-Civic Choice Group, we ask Senator Caliendo to authorize us to put our signature on the agenda G2.101 (text 3). Indeed, there is no doubt that the agenda signed by Caliendo is easy to implement and goes in the most reasonable and fastest direction, which the Government will then be able to follow with the related measures to be issued.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-895.ana.u83	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-895.ana.u84	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-895.ana.u85	BUCCARELLA (M5S). Madam President, I am speaking only in order to clear out doubts about the current debate. I do not know whether Senator Casson's first-signed agenda has been signed by any other colleague of his Group. However, I would like to remind my colleagues that they should have joined, that that agenda, as reworded, was basically emptied of the basic principle, which is also common to the agenda presented by us, namely that of maintaining the existing courts. The agenda presented by Senator Casson, thus empty, has therefore lost its concrete significance, while remaining an agenda. That is why I call on my fellow Members, who have said that they want to sign this agenda, to reflect on the fact that we are no longer thinking about the text of the agenda that we can read in the dossier which has been distributed to us, but about the rewording proposed by the Government and which I believe has been accepted, once the agenda has been done precisely by Senator Lo Moro. I therefore intervene once again and then I am silent - not forever, but at least for half an hour - so that it remains a testimony, in the Reports of today's sitting, that those who are supporting the need to maintain unchanged the current territorial competences of the existing courts, in the matter of procedures related to the crisis of enterprise and bankruptcy, is the 5 Star Movement. To this end, I propose for the last time an invitation to the Government - obviously not to wrong Senators Caliendo and Casson - so that we can reconsider the possibility of saving these competences, which is then the issue that interests those who are intervening here. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-895.ana.u86	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-895.ana.u87	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-895.ana.u88	CALIENDO (FI-PdL XVII). Madam President, I would like to remind Senator Buccarella that the original text of the agenda signed by Senator Casson, of which a reworded text is being discussed, inspired, indeed copied, an amendment signed by Senator Lumia and other Senators of the Democratic Party, which aimed to introduce the possibility of maintaining all the courts. On that amendment by the Democratic Party, the Budget Commission expressed its opposition, because there would be no possibility of financial cover for all courts. At that point, in the course of my examination in the Commission, I found that I did not have the opportunity to receive support on my agenda and I took into account the possibility of establishing a principle of enlargement, as much as possible, of sections for the company, because otherwise it would be too narrow an alley. 11:15 a.m. (Follows CALIENDO). That is the logic behind the reformulated text and I hope that the Government - for this reason I have spoken earlier - will give a single response to the agenda signed by Senator Casson and mine: otherwise, if it were not so, it would probably pose some problems. If we have one answer, the problem does not arise. In fact, I believe in the commitment of the rapporteur and in particular of the Government to take into account those elements that recommend increasing the number of courts dealing with the proceedings in question.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-895.ana.u89	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-895.ana.u90	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-895.ana.u91	Mr Pagliari, rapporteur. Mr President, I am quick to say that if the two rapporteurs agree to incorporate each other's criteria into their agendas, the two texts can be standardized. CALIENDO (FI-PdL XVII). Mr President, I do not accept this proposal. Mr Pagliari, rapporteur. Then everything remains as it is.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-895.ana.u92	I understand that the Government's opinion is against all the amendments.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-895.ana.u93	Mr President, the Government's opinion is against all the amendments. I would like to point out to Senator Caliendo, as we have already said in the Commission, that the Government shares the spirit of the G2.100 agenda, which essentially aims to introduce specific rewards or sanctions depending on the behaviour of the entrepreneur. The important thing is that it is clear that we are not talking about two separate procedures, but only about reward or sanctioning consequences. With this specification, the Government can accept the agenda, as had already been the case in the Commission.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-895.ana.u94	So keeping the text unchanged, as proposed by Senator Caliendo? CHIAVAROLI, State Secretary for Justice. Yes. BUCCARELLA (M5S). It has been reworded by inserting the term "premium" not the term "sanctionary." CHIAVAROLI, State Secretary for Justice. The Government is then prepared to accept the agenda G2.101 (text 3), while on the agenda G2.102 the opinion remains opposed, because it denies the criterion of specialization of the judge, which is a criterion also required in Europe. The Government's opinion is therefore favourable on the agendas G2.101 (text 3) and G2.103 (text 2), for which we share the rewording proposed by the rapporteur, as they try to reconcile the need for specialization with that of the judge's proximity. On the agenda, Mr G2,104, presented by Senator Uras, the Government's opinion is opposed, as the current criteria for the territorial distribution of seats are being asked to remain unchanged. The Government asks Senator Uras to share instead the agendas of the day G2.101 (text 3) and G2.103 (text 2), which meet the same requirement and try to counter it with the need for specialization, which is the one contained in the delegation. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator Uras, do you accept the government's invitation?
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-895.ana.u95	Mr President, we have already accepted this invitation by signing the two agendas G2.101 (text 3) and G2.103 (text 2). Obviously, the issue that arises is known: if we treat Italy as if it were one thing and we cannot understand that there is a territorial diversity, that there is a different condition compared to the processes of depopulation, that there is a different condition compared to the organization of general services, we do not respect the meaning of Article 5 of the Constitution, which requires the State to operate the decentralisation of public services to ensure equality between the citizens of our country.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-895.ana.u96	So you accept the government's invitation to withdraw the agenda? URAS (Mixed-Mist-CP-S). Yes, I welcome it, Mr President.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-895.ana.u97	We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 2,100. MARTELLI (M5S). We call for simultaneous ballots to be carried out by electronic means. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 2.100, tabled by Senator Stefani and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Let us move on to amendment 2.27, on which the 5th Commission has expressed its opposition under Article 81 of the Constitution. BUCCARELLA (M5S). We are asking for the vote. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Pursuant to Rule 102- bis of the Rules of Procedure, I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 2.27, tabled by Senator Giarrusso and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 2.101, tabled by Senator Stefani and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 2.102, tabled by Senator Stefani and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 2.103, tabled by Senator Stefani and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I would ask the draftsman of the agenda, Mr G2,100, if he insists on the vote. CALIENDO (FI-PdL XVII). Yes, Mr. President. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of the agenda G2.100, presented by Senator Caliendo and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). I refer to the nominal vote by simultaneous ballot of the agenda G2.101 (text 3), presented by Senator Caliendo and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of the agenda G2.102, presented by Senator Lucidi and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of the agenda G2.103 (text 2), tabled by Senator Casson and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). The agenda was withdrawn. I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Rule 2. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the vote on Rule 3. MARTELLI (M5S). We call for the vote to be taken by simultaneous ballot by electronic means. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Rule 3. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the examination of Article 4, on which amendments and agendas have been tabled which are intended to be presented and on which I invite the rapporteur and the representative of the Government to give their views.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-895.ana.u98	Mr President, I am against all the amendments. On the agenda, Mr G4.1, by Senator Cappelletti and others, the opinion was in favour, provided that the following reformulation was introduced: It is requested to replace the device with: • commit the Government to ensure, in accordance with the instruments offered by the current discipline, the monitoring of the preventive phase also of the companies listed on regulated markets and of the companies defined as large by the EU legislation •. The G4.2 agenda can be accepted as a recommendation with this rewording: Recommends the Government to consider also the possibility of providing a time limit of six months and in any case short to identify the appropriate measures to remedy the state of crisis.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-895.ana.u99	Mr President, I agree with the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-895.ana.u100	I ask Senator Cappelletti if he accepts the rewording of the agenda G4.1 and, at the same time, the inclusion of the agenda G4.2 in the new text as a recommendation. Mr Capelletti (M5S). Yes, Mr. President. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 4.1. BIGNAMI (Misto-MovX). We call for simultaneous ballots to be carried out by electronic means. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 4.1, tabled by Senator Cappelletti and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 4,100, tabled by Senator Stefani and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 4.11, tabled by Senator Giarrusso and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 4.12, tabled by Senator Buccarella and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 4.14, tabled by Senator Cappelletti and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 4.15, tabled by Senator Giarrusso and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of the agenda G4.1 (text 2), presented by Senator Cappelletti and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). As the authors do not insist on the vote, the G4.2 agenda (text 2) is accepted as a recommendation. I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Rule 4. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the vote on Rule 5. BIGNAMI (Misto-MovX). We call for the vote to be taken by simultaneous ballot by electronic means. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Rule 5. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the examination of Rule 6, on which an agenda has been tabled which is intended to be presented and on which I invite the rapporteur and the representative of the Government to give their views.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-895.ana.u101	Mr President, I am against the G6.19 agenda.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-895.ana.u102	Mr President, I agree with the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-895.ana.u103	We shall now proceed to the vote on the G6.19 agenda. BIGNAMI (Misto-MovX). We call for simultaneous ballots to be carried out by electronic means. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot on the agenda G6.19, tabled by Senator Buccarella and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Rule 6. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the examination of Rule 7, on which amendments have been tabled and an agenda to be presented and on which I invite the rapporteur and the representative of the Government to give their views.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-895.ana.u104	Mr President, I am against all the amendments and the agenda.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-895.ana.u105	Mr President, I agree with the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-895.ana.u106	We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 7.3. BIGNAMI (Misto-MovX). We call for simultaneous ballots to be carried out by electronic means. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported).
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-895.ana.u107	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-895.ana.u108	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-895.ana.u109	BUCCARELLA (M5S). Mr President, Amendment 7.3 aims to introduce in a regulatory manner a rotational criterion for the appointments by professionals of the various treatments or procedures governed by Article 7. It is an amendment that wants to affect those realities, so frequent in our courts, so all too often, beyond the inevitable criteria of discretionary evaluation of the appointment of this or that professional, of this or that specialized study in the matters in question, there is a sort of distortion of the balance of appointment within the individual fora, which should be discouraged with much clearer criteria that require a rotation in the custody of the assignments. The amendment, in its letter a-ter), also provides for a list to be published on the Internet and for appointed professionals to be evaluated by the court so that the quality of the service rendered can also be guaranteed. Perhaps the rapporteur mentioned the possibility of accepting an agenda just now, so I ask him if he can speak briefly. I would remind you that we have approved certain agendas in the Commission, some of which, at least those proposed by our Group, were in this direction. Without prejudice to the explanation of vote in favour, I would ask the rapporteur to speak on this point.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-895.ana.u110	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-895.ana.u111	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-895.ana.u112	Mr Pagliari, rapporteur. Mr President, an agenda on the rotation principle as indicated in Amendment 7.3 could be accepted. I would just point out that the agenda should not refer to the court, because the register is national. The criteria of rotation and advertising are good, so if Senator Buccarella agrees to turn Amendment 7.3 into an agenda, my opinion is in favour.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-895.ana.u113	Senator Buccarella, do you agree to turn Amendment 7.3 into an agenda after the amendment proposed by the rapporteur? BUCCARELLA (M5S). Yes, ma'am. It would be interesting to know with what premise the agenda would be accepted, whether a commitment to the Government or a commitment to consider whether it would be appropriate to consider it as appropriate. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the representative of the Government to comment on this.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-895.ana.u114	Mr President, the Government accepts the G7.3 agenda with a commitment to assess whether it is appropriate and with the clarification made by the rapporteur. In fact, the register is no longer held by the individual courts but is a national one.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-895.ana.u115	Senator Buccarella, do you accept the proposed wording? BUCCARELLA (M5S). Yes, Mr President, and I request the vote on the agenda. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of the agenda G7.3 tabled by Senator Cappelletti and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 7.9 tabled by Senator Giarrusso and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 7.11, tabled by Senator Buccarella and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 7.12, tabled by Senator Cappelletti and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 7.13, tabled by Senator Giarrusso and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of the agenda G7.1 tabled by Senator Giarrusso and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Rule 7. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the vote on Rule 8. BIGNAMI (Misto-MovX). We call for the vote to be taken by simultaneous ballot by electronic means. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Rule 8. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the vote on Rule 9. BIGNAMI (Misto-MovX). We call for the vote to be taken by simultaneous ballot by electronic means. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I would like to refer to the vote by a simultaneous vote on Rule 9. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the debate on Rule 10, on which an agenda has been tabled, and I would ask the rapporteur to explain it.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-895.ana.u116	Mr President, I withdraw the agenda because it has already been accepted in the Commission, both by the Government and by the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-895.ana.u117	So the agenda for G10.100 has been withdrawn. We shall now proceed to the vote on Rule 10. BIGNAMI (Misto-MovX). We call for the vote to be taken by simultaneous ballot by electronic means. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Rule 10. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the vote on Rule 11. BIGNAMI (Misto-MovX). We call for the vote to be taken by simultaneous ballot by electronic means. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Rule 11. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the vote on Rule 12. BIGNAMI (Misto-MovX). We call for the vote to be taken by simultaneous ballot by electronic means. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Rule 12. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the vote on Rule 13. BIGNAMI (Misto-MovX). We call for the vote to be taken by simultaneous ballot by electronic means. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Rule 13. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the vote on Rule 14. BIGNAMI (Misto-MovX). We call for the vote to be taken by simultaneous ballot by electronic means. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Rule 14. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the vote on Rule 15. BIGNAMI (Misto-MovX). We call for the vote to be taken by simultaneous ballot by electronic means. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Rule 15. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the vote on Rule 16. BIGNAMI (Misto-MovX). We call for the vote to be taken by simultaneous ballot by electronic means. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Rule 16. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B).
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-895.ana.u118	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-895.ana.u119	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-895.ana.u120	Mr Giovanardi (PL-Id) Mr President, I only speak to declare my vote in favour.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-895.ana.u121	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-895.ana.u122	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-895.ana.u123	STEFANI (LN-Aut). Mr President, as has already been pointed out in the general debate, the draft law before us provides for and includes hypotheses and forecasts on which it is not possible to vote against. Certainly, there is the overcoming of the concept of failure as a purely punitive institution. Let us remember that the competition procedures were originally born with the sole objective of ensuring the so-called par condicio creditorum. The bankruptcy intervened precisely in order to allow all creditors to be treated in the same way and thus be able to satisfy themselves on the assets of the failed company. There was a strongly negative and almost punitive connotation: failing also resulted in a form of elimination from social life. Today, especially with the bill of delegation to our examination, there is the overcoming of this concept and, as happened in recent and less recent legislative measures that have modified the bankruptcy law, the objective of favouring and promoting a path of business continuity. In fact, the draft law provides for priority to be given to proposals that lead to the overcoming of the crisis, even when agreed. Of course, applause can come for the prediction, which in some ways is contained in two institutions already existing in our system, aimed at activating procedures for the assisted composition of crises, to be carried out in the composition bodies within the chambers of commerce. I would like to say here that perhaps we do not know how the rule laid down in Article 4 can then be incorporated into the legal order, but it can only be seen in a good way, even if it raises doubts that this type of intervention should take place at zero cost. In fact, as provided for in the last article of the bill, it would appear that no new or higher charges should be imposed on public finance. It is not understood then how these organisms can live except by tax or other forms of payment; on the point, to posterity the harsh judgment. I also note that we are talking about a delegated law and these laws conceal great mysteries and great uncertainties. Then, when implementing and issuing legislative decrees, it is never known what the fate might be. The laws of delegation have hidden many pitfalls and here too we find ourselves with a norm like this, which would have the presumption of restoring the plant of the bankruptcy law, which has been the subject of several changes, which have caused its disorganicity and difficulty of reading. However, we want to focus on the critical aspects of the draft law, as has already been pointed out in the general debate, and as has emerged during the vote on the amendments and the debate on the agenda. There is a problem that concerns the competence of what the new bankruptcy court would like to be, almost all concentrated at the headquarters of the business courts. We cannot be silent about the fact that already during the work of the Commission chaired by Dr Rordorf, who suggested the establishment of this new law, the problem had arisen of how to resolve the two different interests: on the one hand, to have a judiciary specializing in bankruptcy law and therefore suggest a path of concentration of the court; on the other hand, to ensure that the contact that has always been between the lawyer, the citizens and the court of failures, as located in the various provincial offices, with the risk - and that is why this choice has been made, which we do not share - of weighing down the workload that already insists on the business court. Let's remember some data, which in some ways can also disturb. At present, the sections have an increasing workload. In 2016, compared to the previous year, there was 20 percent more proceedings (72 percent more than in 2013). If by one verse it is understood that the business court works, in the sense that people appeal to it (although, by the way, it is very expensive, since the unified contribution to rooting a case is twice as much as an application of equal value in an ordinary court), on the other hand towards the times of the definition unfortunately have been slowed down. If 74 percent of the cases were settled in one year in 2014, in 2016 - that is, only two years later - they have already dropped to 57 percent. That's the problem. Are we not going to charge the court and burden it with proceedings that will deal almost exclusively with the court? But above all, as has been pointed out on the agendas, divide the various competences, as we want to do in the bill, between the court of failures, which will then go to the capitals of the Region or the most important courts, and, for those that remain, the ordinary court, will not be able to create application problems or more problems compared to those that want to be solved? In essence, we are faced with these usual, continuous problems concerning the distribution of loads. We also saw it in the reorganization of judicial geography: to try to streamline, it weighed down; to try to solve, additional problems have been created. Then, in the end, in Italy everything is accepted and everything is passed, but our hesitations on the bill, despite the vote and the acceptance of the agendas, remain; indeed, perhaps they have been further confirmed by the vote and by the decisions on the agendas. If we read well, the agendas are all aimed at inviting the Government to review and re-evaluate the distribution of competences at the corporate court, then future court also of failures; if we all agreed and if we all voted them, it means that the law has a problem. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group.]] So it means that you should have changed the law on that point, otherwise you can't see why there is a global agreement on intent and there can't be the same global agreement when instead it's time to change the law. This confirms that, when implementing the legislative decrees, no account will be taken of the agendas, the commitments made and today's vote, as is often the case. Therefore, it will only be words in the wind, while, as unfortunately has been pointed out also by voices coming from the lawyering and from the world of those who work in the field of failures, there may be problems. We need closeness, as we have always said. Today we are talking about autonomy, as we are doing in Lombardy and in Veneto for the referendum, but in some ways we continue to insist: the proximity of the judicial office to users is also a way to control justice and verify what is around a bankruptcy court; putting miles away means not only increasing costs, but also creating a distance of verification and control. In the end, we are talking about failures and we must draw a conclusion too, because we are now at the end of the parliamentary term. In hitting companies with failures, you hit the territory. The exponential increase in failures in recent years denounces the fact that we are experiencing a very serious economic crisis that affects our companies and failure does not only mean that entrepreneurs lose money, but also that workers lose jobs. If the company fails then, our economic system has also failed. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group]] And in the reform that is being proposed, we do not see a solution, because we find measures in the legal field... [[The microphone is automatically switched off.]] We need to overcome an orderly problem and think about how to find solutions to the crisis in our system. There is no point talking about reforming these rules: we are here discussing the systems and codes when our companies are really failing outside. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-895.ana.u124	I would remind my fellow Members that respect for time, perhaps even by giving up some of the minutes available, would allow us to vote this morning. The first to speak in an explanation of vote was Senator Falanga, who I do not see in this House and who therefore intends to give up and cooperate in this respect.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-895.ana.u125	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-895.ana.u126	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-895.ana.u127	LO MORO (Art. 1-MDP). Mr President, I will certainly accept your invitation to be brief. In anticipation I announce the vote in favour of the Article 1 Group - Democratic and progressive movement. Moreover, our colleagues in the House of Deputies voted in favour in February 2017 and there are no grounds for voting in favour of the measure, despite the change that has taken place in the meantime. As I enter into the substance of the provision, I immediately say that, being a delegated law, the judgment is given on the content of the delegation and on the principles, because, as someone said earlier, we certainly do not have any guarantees today on how the delegation will be implemented, even if it is provided for in Article 1 of the bill that the legislative decrees will be adopted on a proposal from the Minister of Justice, in agreement with the Minister of Economic Affairs and Finance and with the Minister of Labour and Social Policy - the three major Ministries - and will have to be submitted to the scrutiny of the relevant parliamentary committees. I referred to these three ministries, because this also helps to frame the measure. In fact, it is not only a procedural matter and a matter of justice, but also a fundamental amendment that almost totally replaces - I imagine, in the end, entirely - Royal Decree No 267 of 16 March 1942, issued seventy-five years ago, in a direction that was really needed on the territory and in all the Italian courts. This is an important change, not only because of the scope of the amendment, but also because of the cultural and judicial policy approach. Someone has already mentioned overcoming the concept of failure; I would say that it is the concept of failure that has been overcome. Those who have had the opportunity to declare failures know how difficult it was to tell a person who had failed, perhaps not to the many people who with that failure then concretized hypotheses of fraudulent bankruptcy or anything else, but to the people who had really had difficulties, often to manage individual enterprises, therefore without any screen and without any shield. As everyone will remember, until a few years ago failure followed a series of truly questionable consequences, which made and refer to another era: not only a social disvalue, but also, for example, the impossibility of having the electorate active and passive. This concept is now lacking and is not a formal or nominalistic fact, but a substantial fact. What changes with this delegation to the Government, and that will have to change then with the legislative decrees, is precisely the optics: it is no longer a question of penalising the entrepreneur who does not make it, but of maintaining the consequences of the case (even the most serious, in the case of dishonest entrepreneurs) and at the same time of protecting the companies and therefore the workers. That is why I referred to the concert with the Ministry of Economics and Finance and the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy. When it was declared and declared a failure, with the law still in force, the first operation that the curator carries out is to quantify the privileged claims of the workers but then, in reality, it is consecrated, at the same time, the end of the occupied state. It is not of particular importance to have a privileged credit, when the procedure means the end of a job. The change is therefore not lexical, neither when you start from the bankruptcy to arrive at the judicial liquidation, nor when you start from the state of insolvency to arrive instead at the definition of the state of crisis, which obviously comes before the state of eventual insolvency. So there is an attempt to save businesses and it is an attempt that puts all debtors on the same level. It is important that in the delegation it has been clarified - and those who have practice of failures know that this is a very insidious point - that it will not be more a matter of distinguishing between one debtor and another, with cases on which the jurisprudence has had to make way and help the bankruptcy courts to understand who they were before, how much of being able to subject to the procedure of ascertaining the state of crisis, and therefore of insolvency, every category of debtor. This is also a quality point. I will mention only those points which seem to me to be of particular quality and I will not, of course, deal with the whole issue in the few minutes I have available. Another point which I believe is very important and which is contained in the same Article 2 is that which provides for the institution, at the Ministry of Justice, of a notice of the curators. Senator Buccarella said well before, speaking of the need for this register to be managed with judgment and transparency, providing for rotations, but I would not be too rigid in all this, because the custody of assignments is attributed to a court and in the border courts, compared to difficult and complex failures, compared to failures of companies managed outside the legality or by subjects that, perhaps with the shield of legality, manage companies financed with money recycled, it is often difficult to find curators. So let the record come, because this will avoid that on the territory it becomes incarcerated of failures and will avoid so many twists that we have seen on the territory. We also welcome the criteria, but with a certain mental elasticity, because we know that they are diseases of companies, they are states of crisis and insolvency, they are companies that are not good. We also know - and the law of delegation is well aware of this, when it states that bankruptcy offences remain unchanged - that in most cases, those that have most toiled not only the courts, but also the Italian economy, are failures of wooden heads, of companies managed on behalf of others and of companies with which recycling or self-cycling is done. So let us also have a certain ductility. Another valuable element, always on the subjective level, seems to me to be that of Article 3, which deals with groups of undertakings. In judicial cases, it was often difficult to hit the Chinese boxes, which someone mentioned in this House, and to hit the right person. In fact, organizing companies in an artificial way, one could avoid the failure of the company that held the command also from the managerial point of view, of the governance and economic, instead declaring failed enterprises that they were completely empty. The element that is missing here is evident from the same title of the measure: "Delegates to the Government for the reform of the disciplines of the crisis of enterprise and of the insolvency". In fact, looking favourably at the extension of the discipline to groups of enterprises, we must say that the list is not complete because, despite the content is very exhaustive, strict on many principles and less on others, there are enterprises that escape this measure and this delegation, which are perhaps the ones that justified the concerted action with the Ministry of Economic Development. I am referring to the largest corporate groups, and today in Italy we have many in crisis, an example for all is Alitalia, which escapes this measure, because it does not concern the extraordinary administration. Since the time available to me is almost over, I would like to make one final point. Article 12 solves very important problems on the territory, because it makes the concept of custody prevail. In my opinion, the profession of the notary has gone away losing its effectiveness, with all the rules that have limited the powers and duties of this type of professional. In my opinion, the guarantees in favour of the buyers of buildings to be built, as referred to in Article 12, give important answers. In fact, very often, in the fallout stages, we have seen people who actually failed on their own and lost all their assets, because they had invested their savings in apartments that were never built. Overall, our opinion is positive. There is a lack of rules, which, on the other hand, did not fall within the bankruptcy law, but rather under Law No 95 of 1979, but we will vote in favour.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-895.ana.u128	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-895.ana.u129	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-895.ana.u130	BUEMI (Aut (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT)-PSI-MAIE). Mr President, by accepting the invitation to be concise, I am voting in favour of the Group for the Autonomous, Italian Socialist Party and MAIE, aware of the fact that an important measure is being carried out. We express a very positive opinion: it is a good law, expected for years, that completely changes the regulatory approach moving from a sanctioning phase towards companies in difficulty and from a negative attitude to a complete reversal of the approach, having as the main reference point the maintenance in life of the enterprise, as not only heritage of owners and entrepreneurs, but also heritage and wealth of the country. The introduction of the auditor's obligation for smaller companies, those with more than ten employees and more than 2 million annual turnover, and the adoption of the preventive action criterion, in order to avoid crises and also to lead to small enterprises, which are often lacking in this respect, to efficient and rational management, in line with the principles of good governance of the company, should be considered among the important measures envisaged, albeit penalising small enterprises. Certainly, it remains the critical point of the choice of the curators and judicial administrators because surely there is no evaluation of a criterion of fairness of weight of the assignments and, in this sense, it is hoped that the Government, through the delegation, will exercise a precise regulation of the matter in order to avoid actions that do not conform to the fundamental principle of thirdness of the action of the judge regarding the assignments, so as to avoid favoritism that also the chronicles have emphasized. The criminal situation, from the point of view of the liability of the directors, remains unchanged. It is, overall, a good measure, apart from the criticisms that have been made, more driven by a preliminary position than by a matter of substance. I believe that the country has long been in need of this law and today we, approving the text that has arrived to us from the Chamber, conclude an iter of which we must all be honored, because we owe our order, despite the difficulties of this legislature, of a measure definitely indispensable in order to make our country modern also from this point of view. [[Applause from Senator Longo Fausto Guilherme.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-895.ana.u131	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-895.ana.u132	You have the floor for an announcement of your vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-895.ana.u133	FALANGA (ALA-SCLP). Mr President, I do not know what an announcement of a vote means. I am voting in favour of my Group. I note, Mr President, that you have just introduced a new type of intervention limited to the announcement of a vote, simply because when I was called it was under that door.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-895.ana.u134	Let's get Senator Falanga out of his voice, because he's complaining about the reality of the facts. The possibility to intervene was a courtesy that was addressed to her, even if she was not present when he was called. It's all in the record. We record your explanation of vote in favour. FALANGA (ALA-SCLP). You are now taking the floor so that I cannot say that you do not speak in an responsive manner. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I'm censoring your position, Senator Falanga. You are requested to be in the Chamber when you have to speak. FALANGA (ALA-SCLP). I was in the Chamber, under that door, and you should look at the whole House, not just your colleagues in the League! PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I'm looking at the whole House. FALANGA (ALA-SCLP). You have to look at the whole House.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-895.ana.u135	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-895.ana.u136	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-895.ana.u137	ALBERTINI (AP-CpE-NCD). Mr President, I am voting in favour of the People's Alternative Group. The time available, even if halved, will allow me some comment on the salient features of the bill that we are approving. The first argument of positivity is a scenario and, that is, a complete corpus iuris in the matter of bankruptcy is formed with the intervention. Until now the interventions had been dictated in different circumstances, especially by emergencies, and had no overall rationality and organicity. This is remedied by the legal provision that we are approving. The ratio has been widely debated, but I am pleased to be able to point out it: the possibility, even in the presence of company crisis, to continue the activity of the company, overcoming the crisis, with a series of interventions that start from the alert procedure in order to face the crisis itself with the institution of a procedure particularly interesting and useful and, that is, the composition assisted in order to favor the overcoming of the insolvency. Failure is a substitute for the management of the insolvency crisis. The bankruptcy law dates back to 1942, then reported in 2006 and amended several times, seven since then. The picture, therefore, is composite. This legislation, as well as the profile that I said at the beginning, namely the appropriateness of all legislative acts, is respectful of the principles developed by Europe and the United Nations Commission on International Trade Law. It is set up, as other colleagues have pointed out, and I would like to stress this, the group agreement, which is a very important issue in order to avoid any distortion of companies which have already occurred and which have caused a component of the whole to fail, to the detriment of creditors, completely preserving the usefulness of the operation, without suffering the consequences. Assisted composition is perhaps the real novelty of this intervention. It provides preventive monitoring, so as to contain damage and save the company. The agreed advance is the subject of attention; the agreed pure liquidation has finally been exonerated from the legislation, allowed only when the proposed debtor also provides other external resources, in addition to the existing ones, with an appreciable increase in the assets, which in any case allows the satisfaction of at least 20% of the unevaded creditor mass. It was better regulated the agreement in business continuity, providing for the mixed agreement, with a connection between the business continuity and a simultaneous partial liquidation of insolvencies. Particular attention has been paid to the powers of the curator, who is the real dominus of judicial winding-up, with precise rules that strengthen and clarify the role of the curator. The debtor's right to information is also provided, which in the legislation in force was, instead, unaware of what happened to his assets, thus allowing him to stay in touch with the reality that he created, even if it was vulnerated by company crisis, if he could reclaim it in positive terms, after fulfilling his commitments. The matter of the composition of the crisis and debt dates back to Law No. 3 of 2012 and has, in terms of experience, had rather poor results. In fact, the rule under consideration, of which we assume responsibility with the favorable vote, provides for a revision of the entire system of privileges, which has led, in the last ten years, to a normative stratification, therefore to a difficulty on the part of those who have to manage the entire plant and to a difficulty for the chirografari creditors to be satisfied. I then point out the insertion, in article 11-a (it is a significant detail), of the control of legality by the notary, especially in order to remedy the disapplication of the guarantee surety in favor of the promittent buyers of the property, that it was not substantially applied. (at 12.10 a.m.) (Following ALBERTINI). In order to prevent the irreparable disasters of companies, there is also an obligation, including for limited liability companies, to appoint supervisory bodies if there is an inconsistency in the relationship between the company's assets and debt. Finally, the last aspect, perhaps the most innovative and most important, also de iure condensing: the establishment of a specialised judge, who can follow, by competence, experience, functionality, intervention ability, with more appropriate professionalism cases of this kind. In this regard, it should be pointed out to the Government that the Assembly has expressed its broad support in this direction. The business court has worked and it is one of the most significant reforms we have introduced during this parliamentary term. It is precisely in this scenario and in this context that the organizational, professional, managerial resources of the justice system for entrusting the specialized judge with the management of insolvency cases must be identified, so that this rule can usefully be applied which, I repeat, as I said at the beginning, has our full agreement and our vote in favour. [[Senator Dalla Tor's applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-895.ana.u138	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-895.ana.u139	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-895.ana.u140	MINEO (Misto-SI-SEL). Mr President, I agree with what Senator Lo Moro has said in good shape and this will allow me to be even shorter in my speech. The Italian Left will vote in favour of this measure, because an opposition force does not vote against each party taken. It is a bill of delegation and it is true that the governments in this legislature have exaggerated, abusing the laws of delegation. In this case, however, the delegation derives from the work well carried out, in 2015, by a ministerial commission. Therefore, the indications given to the government are quite clear and it is functional to democracy that the government puts them in place and that Parliament, as a natural, controls them. The delegation, if used correctly and not abused, is also an indispensable instrument of democracy. Coming to the merits, there is a semantic effort in the provision, so bankruptcy is now called judicial liquidation. I could be ironic about this semantic reformism, inspired by a politically correct voucher, which is rampant in our country. I have recently checked for acts concerning me and have noticed that the word divorce is always replaced by euphemisms. The fact remains that divorce is divorce and failure is failure. However, I can understand that, in this case, we wanted to separate the term failure from the concept of guilt, because it is true that, especially in times of crisis such as this, failure or insolvency do not always derive from a fault of the entrepreneur, but can be motivated by other reasons. But when there is fault, it must be prosecuted and can be prosecuted by the measures currently in force. If you have not already read it, I recommend reading a nice article written with four hands and signed by Sarzanini and Fubini, on the "Corriere della sera," which speaks of a claim for compensation for 400 million euros to 35 managers of Banca Etruria; this, however, is another story. With regard to the substance of this measure, I would just like to mention two reasons for voting in favour. The first is that, in the delegation to the Government, the protections to the employment and salary of the workers and also to their rights in case of change of property are confirmed. The second is that it insists on the specialization of the magistrate, who is fundamental in this type of process, and it is explicit the need for a strengthening of the judicial offices for this purpose. That is something we often say, and the Minister knows it, because he has heard us say it in the Commission. I therefore hope that it will actually be done. I therefore declare the Italian Left's vote in favour. [[Applause from the Misso-SI-SEL Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-895.ana.u141	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-895.ana.u142	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-895.ana.u143	BUCCARELLA (M5S). Mr President, the 5 Star Movement shared the general plan and the approach of the draft law under consideration, aimed at reforming all the discipline of bankruptcy and bankruptcy procedures, sharing the will to get away from the stigma of the failed entrepreneur, that figure daughter of the legislation of the 1940s, which, as was also recalled by those who preceded me, even defined failure as civil death. By sharing the general system, including in the presentation and illustration of the amendments in this House, we have highlighted a vulnus, which concerns us very much and which is related to the need, in our view, to retain competence for competition procedures in the current ordinary courts. On the point we had proposed, maintaining the current territorial and functional competence, to be able to integrate the colleges also with non-togated members, of course having specific requirements of technical competence, experience and, above all, independence, also with respect to situations of conflict of interest, chosen from among the members of the professional offices of lawyers or doctor accountants and accounting experts or between subjects who have carried out functions of management, control and administration of companies for shares and who, for these reasons, have proven managerial skills. Unfortunately, our invitation, which was also on the agenda, was not fully accepted by the Government. We will see if the agendas that have been accepted, aimed at limiting the deserting scope - yet another - of the measure will then have practical application. What worries us, in an overall view, is that with the provisions of the draft law under consideration, even bearing in mind the draft law for the reform of the civil process - if it will have an effective outcome in the normal way, but which is still in the Commission for now - which provides, as we know, for the extension of the competence of the specialised sections of the courts of the enterprises, we can create a situation of greater difficulty for the entire justice system. In that bill of civil trial reform, in fact, there is an increase in the jurisdiction of the honorary judge and it is easy to imagine that there will be a clogging of many so-called medio-large surrounding courts, while the medium and small ones will end up having substantial decreases in litigation and penances and there is to be feared that with the next unsolicited and denied reform of judicial geography, in which it is already expected that not necessarily a provincial capital should be the seat of court, many courts will have slopes destined to shrink and therefore it will be easy to say that they no longer serve and that they must be closed. The approach of the last governments, starting with that of Monti, not only the current one, to solve the problem of justice with measures aimed at discouraging the protection of rights, recurs whenever we talk about measures such as this, having a legal nature as well as procedural. We therefore propose this issue because it is the reality that is represented to us by the territories, by the courts, by the voices of businesses and citizens, who complain about this aspect. Judicial desertification, the increase in the cost of access to civil and administrative justice have, unfortunately, been and are still precise political objectives with which these governments aim to resolve the problem of backwardness, litigation and possible infringement proceedings initiated by the European Union. We are trying to counter this legislative policy and we fear that the bill we are considering today will be another piece that fits into this framework and to make the costs, as it is inevitable that it will happen, will once again be the weakest subjects, the small enterprises and perhaps just those that are still waiting, on the part of the State, for the payment of their invoices (I do not remember, at this moment, how much the sum, in billions of euros, that the Italian companies are still waiting for from the State). In this overall context, a further wedge has been inserted, with the provision relating to the courts, which is likely to definitively undermine the delicate balance of supply and demand for justice on Italian territory and for this reason we will not be able to vote favorably on the draft law under consideration. I therefore announce the abstention vote of the 5 Star Movement Group. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-895.ana.u144	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-895.ana.u145	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-895.ana.u146	CALIENDO (FI-PdL XVII). Mr President, Minister, this draft law, which has also found our cooperation and support, is based on some fundamental concepts. In particular, not only do we replace the term bankruptcy with the term judicial winding-up, but there is particular attention to what, Minister, was a forced interpretation of the judiciary in the 1970s when, instead of declaring bankruptcy in relation to the economic crisis, it resolved the situation with the controlled administration in order to have no more or less a chance of recovering the remaining working capacity. This is the logic of the bill in our examination, according to which one cannot fail to take into account the fact that, despite the fact that during the prolonged phase of the economic crisis the activity of the directors had been carried out with diligence, it had reached the state of insolvency. The negligence of administrators is quite different, even if there is an economic crisis. In the law, therefore, there is also a contribution to resolving the insolvency crisis; in order to do this, however, we must have two concepts in mind, Minister. On the one hand, territorial jurisdiction is affirmed, which refers to the centre of the debtor's main interests. 12:22 a.m. (Follows CALIENDO). On the other hand, if one really wants to intervene in situations that also represent the possibility of resolving the crisis of the company, it is not necessary to concentrate everything in the business court. Minister, concentration in the business court would mean no more or less a lack of judicial intervention than is now guaranteed. For this reason, I have appreciated, and as a Forza Italia Group, the willingness expressed with your opinion in favour of our agenda, although with a rewording, which takes into account the need to identify different courts than the business court: on the one hand, in order not to slow down the business court's activity - so far this court has worked well; if we are serious about further tasks, the problem will become even worse - on the other hand, because having the measure the function of resolving the crisis also taking into account environmental situations, it is necessary to distribute skills capable of maintaining the efficiency of the business court but at the same time to ensure with the proximity of the judicial decisions, that there is an effective participation in that ascertaining possible resolutions of the crisis that must be preferred. I will not say much more, because the amendments and agendas discussed this morning show that, when there is, regardless of the political positions of majority and opposition, the awareness of working in the interest of the country, one adapts to certain assessments trusting in the legitimacy of the commitment that the Government has undertaken for certain situations to occur. With this hope and with this certainty that you will respond to the commitment you have made, we will vote in favour of the bill. [[Applause from the FI-PdL XVII, AP-CpE-NCD and ALA-SCCLP Groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-895.ana.u147	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-895.ana.u148	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-895.ana.u149	LUMIA (PD). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Minister, another reform reaches its goal. An important and structural reform; a long-awaited goal: perhaps for too many years. The bankruptcy procedures, ladies and gentlemen, were linked to another world, both economic and social as well as institutional. We were linked to the Fascist law of Royal Decree No 267 of 1942, which was subsequently amended over the years. The last amendment we fired was Law No. 3 of 27 January 2012. These changes, ladies and gentlemen, have had no positive effect. (at 12.26 a.m.) (Lumy followed). In fact, they have caused disruptions and have made the capacity to adapt to the real changes that have been produced in the world, as a matter of fact, sterile. Failures and suicides have been the tragic leitmotif of the crisis of these years. How to deal with the crisis, also from the point of view of competition procedures? What thread to hold in this difficult and complex labyrinth? And here is the reform: a reform that finally intervenes systematically on the competitive procedures and is finally able to confront the ugly beast of globalization. Globalisation is within us, demonizing it does not serve; suffering it is wrong and unjust. The open challenge is to govern globalisation by means of modern rules capable of providing economic operators with a harmonised framework, at least at European level. As the Minister knows, in the various summits and meetings in which the approval of the measure takes part in our examination was called for as a priority. That is why today's result qualifies parliamentary work and government action, as well as the closure of this legislature. Ladies and gentlemen, the paradigm of the failure is finally set aside: the failure as a stigma, as an infamous column, as a problem of the problems that have only one solution: to be erased in its dignity or even suicide as an extreme ratio. Well, all this is put aside. The crisis of these years gives us two lessons: the first is that many of the crises are of a structural type and they stick to the ability of the enterprise to keep up with the economy and the productive transformations. It also gives us another important signal and another teaching: enterprise is good in itself. It has a value and is built within its forces and qualities. The company even challenges the old entrepreneur-worker conflict and puts within its dynamics the ability to cooperate and invest together, including through a sharing of responsibilities, profits and losses. For these reasons, the reform is structural. It shifts the axis of the competition procedures on prevention, because it is necessary to identify the evil before it becomes concrete; it is necessary to identify the exit routes before they cause significant damage to the enterprise and, therefore, to the entrepreneur and to the occupational levels. We must accompany the crisis: to have more ways of government and more transparency around insolvency procedures, because we have had several signals, extremely negative, in bankruptcy courts. We need more specialised magistrates and a better definition of territorial competences: a capacity, in essence, to present to our country a level of reform able to better manage the evolution and the escape from the crisis that we are encountering in recent weeks and months. That is why we have given importance to the approval of this structural and important reform. I thank the rapporteur and all the groups, because we have worked together in the Commission on justice, and the Government has been able to transpose, through the agendas, some points that can qualify the law in the process of approving the delegations. That is why we in the Democratic Party, who have given a great deal of importance to the draft law before us, will vote for it with a conviction and also a welcome one. [[Applause from the PD Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-895.ana.u150	You have asked the Minister for Justice, Mr Orlando. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-895.ana.u151	Mr President, I would like to thank the rapporteur, the Commission and all those who have spoken. I stress that this reform is truly of epochal scope - and I never use these terms - for a very simple reason: the planting of the legislation that concerns bankruptcy dates back to 1942 with a distorted mechanism that has grinded, over these years, many resources both in terms of entrepreneurial capacity and in terms of resources related to material goods. I believe that with this measure we are not only able to review, as has been said, the stigma, which is often no longer justified in a globalised economy, but also not to waste entrepreneurial capacity. You can be good entrepreneurs and have had a first business experience not happy. The measure also contains a positive intervention on the use of goods and procedures, as has been mentioned. There is a focus on a point that I consider to be fundamental: the search for the preservation of business activity. This is a fundamental point for our country. We align ourselves with the European indication, but we do so taking into account the peculiarities of our system and the need to build self-analysis tools for companies which, being often familiar in nature, do not always have that internal articulation capable of assessing the actual financial conditions. The alert procedures, for which, in the exercise of the delegation, we will have a particular attention in order to take account of the peculiarities of our system, allow a self-analysis regarding the course of the entrepreneurial activity. I would like to make one last point: I am sorry that there is no favorable vote of the 5 Star Movement that has been politically characterized on the theme of attention to those who have stumbled into the crisis. I consider the transition from the idea of failure to the idea that we propose with this law not only a semantic change, but a different legal treatment that I believe should be properly considered. However, if we want to make sure that the situation of serious opacity and lack of specialisation that has often accompanied bankruptcy proceedings is overcome, we must work on specialisation. We cannot allow very small courts to deal with failures that are disproportionate to their real capacity for intervention, and on this point I do not consider desertification to be the fact that perhaps 50 kilometers more must be done to address a judicial office where there is actually a specialization able to give an answer. I consider one with the law that we are approving two measures that we have already taken and the law allows one third of them: the departure of the credit and debt register and the sales portal. For the first time in Italy we have a unique portal of all sales involving goods subject to bankruptcy proceedings. It is a fundamental step, because it means having homogeneous prices in the valuation of goods, after years in which the same good could be valued 5 in one Region and 20 in another Region. Now we have a further step that would really be the leap in quality and that we are trying to achieve: to build a parallel market for all goods subject to bankruptcy procedures.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-895.ana.u152	Minister, thank you for your speech, but thank you very much. His speech on the substance could reopen the debate. [[Protests from M5S and LN-Aut groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-895.ana.u153	I shall conclude, Mr President. I consider this step, that is the construction of a parallel market, a further qualitative leap that I believe is in the interest of companies and our country. I hope that all political forces will take up this call. [[Applause from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-895.ana.u154	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-895.ana.u155	Senator Calderoli, although I understand and can already anticipate the meaning of your speech, you have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-895.ana.u156	Mr Calderoli (LN-Aut). Mr President, I would like to point out, not because it will be useful for Mr Orlando next time, because I do not think he will be able to hold this office for long, that such speeches are being made in response. Otherwise, Rule 99 (2) of the Senate Rules provides for the opening of a debate in which a group representative may participate for no more than ten minutes, or an hour and forty minutes. Such an intervention at 12.35 is therefore sudden. It would have been better if it had been in response. However, given that the term of the legislature is now running out, a yogurt model, I am good and I do not wish to do so. [[Applause from Senator Repetti.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-895.ana.u157	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-895.ana.u158	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-895.ana.u159	CRIMI (M5S). Mr President, I would like to speak on a point of order. We do not accept the Minister's irrational intervention, because he could also arrive earlier and make the reply at the appropriate time rather than delegate the Undersecretary. We do not accept this because your speech was not a thank-you, but a political analysis of explanations of vote. We therefore call for action to be taken to respond to what the Minister has said; Mr Buccarella is ready to reply and I also call on the other groups concerned to respond to the Minister and any accusations he may have made against the groups that have decided not to vote. I therefore formally request the intervention of my Group in the person of Senator Buccarella. [[Applause from Senator Moronese.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-895.ana.u160	Rule 99, paragraph 2, of the Rules of Procedure has already been explained by Senator Calderoli. We understand the need to intervene and therefore has the power to speak Senator Buccarella, but bearing in mind the circumstances and the time necessary to reply.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-895.ana.u161	Mr President, this is a proper reply, since the Minister, on the subject, has made specific comments, citing our Group with reference to the criticism we have made and to the reason why our vote was not favourable, while sharing most of the objectives, probably partly achieved and attainable by the draft law. That is, I refer to the geography of justice and to the small courts. Minister, you referred to the need that, with a view to optimising the resources available, the courts too small could take on competence and competition procedures, perhaps of particular complexity or social scope, with staff, skills and professionalism on the part of the magistrates who might not be up to the task. If I understood you correctly, that's the meaning. At the same time, I repeat, first of all, that the agenda presented by us is the result, as always when it comes to technical and specific topics, not only of the direct experience of those who speak and of other members of the Group, but also of qualified inputs from outside; in this case I have no difficulty in referring to the congressional forensic body, which raised the argument that I tried to represent in the Assembly. In other words, I am referring to the need for the current ordinary courts to be maintained, in order to meet the possible problems which you, Minister, referred to, with an increase in staff who were not staffed, and therefore also not magistrates, in situations of maximum transparency, lack of conflict of interest and guarantee of professionalism and ability; this measure could probably ensure that the risk that you feared might not exist. In the face of this commitment by the Government, also organizational and legislative, there would be, on the other side of the scale, the possibility to tell our companies, especially the small ones and in difficulty, that there is a justice that, at least in the most delicate moments of the business crisis, is also physically close. Mr. Minister, like me and the law enforcement agencies, you will know how badly this country is being harmed by the physical remoteness of the places where justice is administered. This is one of the elements that are contributing to the sense of distrust towards the institutions and the Government. That is why I wanted to take advantage of the fact that you have entered into the substance, giving satisfaction to certain points, in order to have the opportunity to represent what I have tried to say to you and that, I understand, it is neither the subject of amendments nor of agendas adopted in the sense we wanted. I hope, however, that this can be the subject of reflection for those who will command the Dicastery in the coming months, hopefully someone who can be more free to move and protect businesses and the right of access to justice, perhaps of the 5 Star Movement. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-895.ana.u162	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-895.ana.u163	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-895.ana.u164	STEFANI (LN-Aut). Mr President, I take advantage of this reopening of the debate to clarify certain aspects, because perhaps, during my explanation of vote, I did not do so fully. We in the Northern League Group will also abstain from voting on the measure. It is regrettable that abstaining from the Senate has a different value than it has in the Chamber of Deputies, where the Northern League Group has already abstained. In fact, our vote of abstention does not really want to be an opposition to much of the measure. As we said in the general discussion, there are parts that we certainly share, like the idea of changing the nature of the bankruptcy procedure, to abandon that punitive sense with which it was born in '42, instead giving priority to the aspect of business continuity. This is a very important step. It is important to distinguish the factors that led to bankruptcy and insolvency. Unfortunately, as has been seen in recent years, failures are also a consequence of changes in the market: some sectors are imploded, have not developed properly and unfortunately have seen many of the companies operating there die. In the measure, however, there is a delicate passage, on which we have discussed a lot, so much so that all the agendas presented both by colleagues of the 5 Star Movement and by colleagues Caliendo and Casson were aimed at reviewing the implantation of the jurisdictions of the bankruptcy court, let's call it so, that it will coincide with that of the companies. That passage is important. Let us remember that at present, as was said before, the business courts have had an increase and certainly an increase in current practices, also due to the fact that some regulatory changes have imposed that the procedure be dealt with before the business court. The worrying fact is not the increase in current practices and proceedings in the business court, but the timing for the adoption of decisions, which unfortunately increased in the space of two years. Since the right hand must know what the left is doing, then let us bear in mind your reform of the civil process, which, I regret to say in these terms, has been completely bogged down in these Aules, although it was important and felt, because it was an opportunity to review the civil code system. Let us remember that this reform provides for a great increase in the powers of the courts of undertakings, which does not correspond to an increase in the number of staff, nor to the number of specialised sections. We need to consider the possibility of law-making the reform of the civil trial, which involves increasing the competence of the business court. It is not said that this does not happen: it certainly will not happen in this legislature, but it is assumed that the draft law, given the advanced stage of discussion, will be re-presented in the new legislature which will begin shortly. Increasing the competence of the business court and, in addition, adding competences on competition proceedings will only lead to an increase. As has been seen in the course of the work in this House, there was an opportunity to speak. All the agendas were adopted unanimously or almost unanimously (perhaps there was no unanimity for a few runaway votes, rather than for a matter of will). However, the agendas should have been amended so that they could make changes to the content of the measure. We know what the value of the agenda is, unfortunately, sometimes - or perhaps always - ignored. We are already talking about a delegation law (and, therefore, we have difficulty in thinking that there will be implementing legislative decrees) and now we are dealing with agendas that will not win much and will be able to proceed as if nothing had been done. The measure under consideration missed the opportunity to review and calibrate competence. For this reason, we would like to see further discussion of this issue on the part of everyone, even if we know that it is now too late. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-895.ana.u165	Pursuant to Rule 120 (3) of the Rules of Procedure, I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of bill no. 2681, as a whole. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). The draft law No 2211 is therefore absorbed.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-895.ana.u166	Ladies and gentlemen, I warn you that, at the motivated request of the Groups, Article 1 - Democratic and Progressive Movement and the Italian Left, the closing of today's afternoon sitting will be early at 6 p.m. The Council for Rules of Procedure shall be convened at the end of this sitting of the Assembly.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-895.ana.u167	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-895.ana.u168	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-895.ana.u169	ROMANI Maurizio (Misto-Idv). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I take advantage of the fact that yesterday was World Mental Health Day to talk about the issue of mental illness, bearing in mind that 25% of the total working days lost are linked to depression. It was already shown that absence from work and precariousness are associated with an increased risk of depression. Out of more than 28 million workers, about 6 million Italians - one in five - suffer from work stress, with prevalence of women. Over 3,200,000 are working women with stress problems - connected and psychic discomforts. Of these, about a million suffer from a clinically relevant and deserving specialized condition, 500,000 for anxiety disorders, 230,000 for insomnia and 220,000 for depression. Among the determining factors are the strong working pressures, the cultural barriers that make the managerial career of the woman more difficult and challenging, but above all the assignments linked to daily life and the role of care giver within the family. Depression is today the second crippling disease in the world and it is estimated that in 2030 it will be number one, with very high social costs and a strong economic impact. According to everything I have said, I appreciated the bill Lorenzin, which provides, among other things, for biologists and psychologists to enter fully into the health professions. I would like this detail not to go unnoticed and I hope it will be the beginning of a small cultural revolution around some issues that I am extremely dear to. Over the last few years we have seen a dramatic increase in cases of depression, in addition to the birth of a series of disorders whose lowest common denominator is almost always stress. Today's world has evidently set rhythms that are not for everyone and are not always compatible with a serene life and the reasonable level of well-being that everyone needs to live. In this era of speed, superficial relationships, anger and ideological wars it is the mind that pays for it, our brains, our ideas and our dreams. From a clinical point of view, this can easily lead to a degradation of the psychophysical conditions that, if not detected and cured in time, can take an impressive amount of forms, all negative. Suicide, extreme and tragic consequence of certain depressive disorders, is the word that you tend to avoid, but that indicates something that exists and that is to be fought. In the same way, nutrition as a habit has faded, adapted to the rhythms imposed by society, when instead it should have been the opposite. A healthy relationship with food is extremely much more possible if this is accompanied by a peaceful psychological condition. So depression, in all its meanings, is still at the heart of a cultural debate rather than a scientific one. The workers know perfectly well what it is and know the pathology and gravity of the situation; all the others, however, often do not recognize it as such. A depressed subject passes through a person who is unwilling or who is only going through a period. The inclusion of certain figures in the health professions is an important awareness, to which I hope it will follow a more subtle, but also more important, social and cultural. [[Applause from Senators Bencini, Bignami and Idem.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-895.ana.u170	The motions, questions and questions received by the Presidency will be published in Annex B to today's report. I recall that the Senate will return to public session today, at 4.30 p.m., on the same agenda. The sitting was closed at 12.54.
