ParlaMint-IT_2017-09-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-881.ana.u1	The sitting is open (9:34 a.m.). The Minutes shall be read. Mr SAGGESE, Secretary, read the Minutes of the afternoon sitting of the previous day.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-09-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-881.ana.u2	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-09-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-881.ana.u3	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-09-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-881.ana.u4	URAS (Mixed-Mist-CP-S). Mr President, I request the vote on the Minutes, subject to a quorum check. Verification of quorum
ParlaMint-IT_2017-09-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-881.ana.u5	I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators, by electronic procedure. (The request is supported). I therefore call on the senators to make their presence known by electronic means. (Follows the quorum check.) The Senate has a quorum. Resumption of the debate on the Minutes I put the Minutes to the vote. It's approved.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-09-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-881.ana.u6	The list of senators on leave and absent on assignment received from the Senate, as well as further communications to the Assembly, will be published in Annex B to today's Minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-09-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-881.ana.u7	I would warn you that qualified votes can be taken in the course of today's sitting by electronic means. Therefore, from this moment the period of 20 minutes from the notice provided for in Article 119, paragraph 1, of the Regulation (9:39 hours) begins.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-09-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-881.ana.u8	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-09-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-881.ana.u9	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-09-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-881.ana.u10	AUGELLO (FL (Id-PL, PLI)). Mr President, I am speaking only because, during the debate on the motions for resolutions on banks, we arrested the explanations of vote in front of a proposal for mediation, which was interpreted by the Undersecretary Baretta on behalf of the Government, accepted by all the Groups which had submitted the motions. These included me, as the first signatory to one of the motions. However, the commitment of everyone in this House was not to delay the conclusion of the examination and the vote beyond the next day to discuss the motions, that is to say next Tuesday. Everyone has more or less absent. The technical problem now is that a group leader must be summoned to make it possible to maintain this commitment, all the more so since our schedule foresees for next Tuesday the discussion of the motions on the commemorative monuments of Christopher Columbus in the United States. Having already finished the debate on the motions on banks, it would be possible to conclude with the vote the examination of these motions in a reasonably short time and then continue with the timetable already set. I represent this need because this was the agreement that emerged in this House, as will be remembered by all the Members who were present. For a purely technical problem, we have not yet been able to define a change in the timetable to make it possible to comply with this commitment. I therefore entrust this requirement to you and to the House, hoping to find a quick solution, perhaps with a quick convocation of the Conference of Leaders to change the timetable.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-09-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-881.ana.u11	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-09-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-881.ana.u12	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-09-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-881.ana.u13	DE PETRIS (Misto-SI-SEL). Mr President, I rise on the same issue as Senator Augello. Just before we arrived at the explanations of vote and the vote on motions, we had reached agreement in this House to make an effort to sum up, but with the commitment of everyone to conclude the examination at the next Tuesday sitting devoted to motions. In order to do this or to reach an agreement between the Heads of Group and this item is placed on the agenda of Tuesday's sitting, or the Conference of Leaders must be convened. I would ask you, Mr President, to speak for this request.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-09-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-881.ana.u14	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-09-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-881.ana.u15	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-09-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-881.ana.u16	Mr Capelletti (M5S). Mr President, on behalf of my group, I support the request to amend the timetable or to convene the Conference of Leaders. On the other hand, not only the representatives of the Groups in the Senate, but also the representative of the Government had undertaken to submit a proposal in the very short term, if not in the immediacy; therefore the opportunity next Tuesday could be the most appropriate one to finalize the issue of the motion on banks.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-09-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-881.ana.u17	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-09-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-881.ana.u18	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-09-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-881.ana.u19	FORNARO (Art. 1-MDP). Mr President, on behalf of our Group too, I would like to join in the request made by Senator Augello and the previous Members. Last Tuesday we concluded the debate on a sensitive and important topic for public opinion such as the one on the management of banks and we did so in a very positive climate, as I think everyone appreciated the willingness of the Government to seek a synthesis. This presupposed, however, the convening of the Conference of the Leaders in order to schedule for Tuesday the final discussion on the motions. Therefore, we too are making the same request, so that the matter can be resolved in the direction indicated.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-09-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-881.ana.u20	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-09-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-881.ana.u21	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-09-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-881.ana.u22	Mr Russo (PD). Mr President, I would like to speak briefly to confirm also by the Group of the Party of European Socialists that, precisely in the light of the debate and agreement reached last Tuesday, we consider it obvious and desirable that on Tuesday the work of this House should start from the very motions on banks.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-09-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-881.ana.u23	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-09-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-881.ana.u24	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-09-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-881.ana.u25	MALAN (FI-PdL XVII). Mr President, the Group of the European Forza Italia supports this request, so that we can come to the end of the debate on the motions for resolutions on banks on Tuesday, which we certainly think is important. After all, when the discussion was interrupted it was quite clear that the understanding was this and we believe that it is logical and necessary that this understanding be kept true. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. He asked the government representative to intervene. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-09-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-881.ana.u26	Mr President, I confirm the willingness of the Government to conclude the debate on the motions for resolutions on banks at Tuesday's sitting, as the senators have hoped.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-09-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-881.ana.u27	I will represent to the President of the Senate the unanimous will of the Assembly which, given also the willingness of the Government, could lead to the decision, without the need to convene the Conference of the Leaders, to carry out the discussion of the motions in the matter of banks Tuesday morning, in place (or previously, if there were the time) of those concerning the commemorative monuments of Christopher Columbus, that could possibly be discussed if the discussion on this point was concluded. However, I will represent the request to the President of the Senate and any consequences on Tuesday morning's agenda will be communicated to the Groups to organise the speeches and other initiatives.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-09-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-881.ana.u28	The next item is the continuation of the debate on draft law Nos. 951 and 1082. I remember yesterday's afternoon sitting when the general debate was over. I call the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-09-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-881.ana.u29	Mr President, representative of the Government, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to take the opportunity of this reply to provide some clarification, if there were still doubts, because it seems to me that yesterday, in the context of the general discussion, some colleagues, in particular Senator Sonego, have expressed some concerns about the source used as a reference to arrive today to the approval of the detachment of the Municipality of Sappada from the Province of Belluno, in the Veneto Region, and its aggregation with the Province of Udine, in the Friuli-Venezia Giulia Region. I would like to make it clear that the proposed text, approved by the Commission on 2 February 2016, which we are about to approve, is fully part of the path and procedure provided for in the second paragraph of Article 132 of the Constitution. This article provides that the Provinces and Municipalities that so request are detached from one Region and aggregated to another when the request of the institution concerned, after popular referendum and after hearing the Regional Councils, is approved by law of the Republic. I would like to mention the point - but it was already made at the session of 31 May last by the President of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, Senator Salvo Torrisi, having been the particularly in-depth issue in that forum, with the participation of colleagues of all the political forces present - that the constitutional provision does not distinguish according to the ordinary or special nature of the Region, just as in the particular case that we are interested. In fact, the Municipality of Sappada asks for the detachment from the Veneto Region and the annexation to the Friuli-Venezia Giulia Region, whose Statute has been approved by constitutional law. There is therefore no need for a constitutional law. The provisions referred to refer to all the Regions, without exceptions to the procedure, if one of the Regions concerned, as in the present case, is endowed with a Statute approved by constitutional law. Moreover, the need for a constitutional law was excluded precisely from the decision of the Constitutional Court no. 66 of 2007, which was also recalled yesterday, when it dealt with the case of the detachment of the Municipality of Noasca from the Piedmont Region and the aggregation to the Valle D'Aosta. I would also point out that this requirement is excluded from Article 46 of Law No 352 of May 1970. In thanking all the Members of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs of the various political forces, who have had the opportunity to discuss this subject in such a detailed and detailed manner, and in particular the then President of the Commission Anna Finocchiaro and the current President Salvo Torrisi, I wanted to make it clear that the need to identify precisely the type of source to be used is the specific competence of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs which has assessed it in depth. The procedural procedure began in October 2013 and I would also like to remind you very appropriately - I am particularly concerned - that the popular referendum that the community of Sappada held in 2008 has achieved not only the prescribed majority, but a broadly favourable outcome, I would say plebiscite. Therefore, the request meets all the requirements of the procedure indicated: geographical continuity, economic and social homogeneity, historical and cultural proximity of the Municipality of Sappada to the Friuli-Venezia Giulia Region. It is not only an economic issue, but a much more complex one; it has deep historical-cultural and also linguistic roots. In conclusion, I would like to see a large majority of this House's approval: for nine years, the people of Sappa have been waiting for this vote by Parliament. Today we can finally respond, after many years of waiting, to the needs of an entire population. We know that this is a very significant vote. Sharing in the Commission has been broad and I hope that very quickly we can proceed in this House too, precisely to mean an expected and fundamental step which responds to a need expressed in a plebiscitous way by an entire community, starting on an important path - we see it also in these days, in these hours - of respect for the principle of self-determination of peoples. We are in 2017; since 2013 the process has been dealt with in a very complex and in-depth way; therefore, in thanking my colleagues again, I hope that the passage of approval can also be rapid in the Chamber of Deputies. [[Applause from the PD Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-09-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-881.ana.u30	I call the representative of the Government.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-09-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-881.ana.u31	Mr President, this measure is, in my view, very contextualised and some considerations must be debilitated, which I have heard during various speeches. I do not think that we should draw any general conclusions from the Sappada affair, on which the Government gives a favourable opinion, and I would like to say this to a number of colleagues who have spoken on this matter. I say this to my colleague D'Alì, because the story of Sappada has nothing to do with the issue of the reorganization of local territorial authorities, present in the draft constitutional reform, then rejected by the citizens, leaving in limbo a series of situations, including that relating to the Provinces; the story of Sappada, however, goes beyond that context. I say this to my colleague Sonego, because the theme of ethnicity, in anthropological terms, has nothing to do with the story of Sappada. If anything, there is a theme of common customs, of shared sociality within the state, interborder and not extra-border. So it is not an ethnic affirmation, but a reunion of communities, within a different local administrative entity. See that the story has little to do with the theme of specialty: the question of Sappada has been present for decades, when the theme of specialty was not yet part of the debate and discussion. Of course, I do not deny contextuality, but certainly the reasons have more to do with history than with the current administrative and institutional context. I would also like to say to my colleague, Mr Marin, that this affair has nothing to do with the Lombardy referendum in Venice, which, moreover, in the light of international events, I would like to maintain with particular care. These two referendums are public demonstrations urging the doing, I dare say to conceal the fact, given the willingness of the current Government and the previous to address the issues of the implementation of Article 116 of the Constitution, with protocols of understanding with the two Regions, never required and never implemented by the two Regions themselves. [[Applause from the PD Group]] I would say that this issue must be dealt with rigorously and without renouncing responsibility, but without attenuating the responsibility of the fact. Sappada is historically Carnic: it has been said in various interventions and this is testified, moreover, by the continuous belonging to the diocese of Udine. The break occurred in the middle of the nineteenth century, due to a dominion outside Italian history. In a short time, however, after that passage to the province of Belluno, the population asked for the reunion to the province of Udine, in 1966 with a popular petition and in 2008 with a referendum plebiscitarius, now recalled. Community life is linked to the wider carnival community. Precisely for this reason the relevance is not the specialty, but the community. I would not even speak of the self-determination of the peoples: it has nothing to do with the Sappada affair with the subject of self-determination, while it has to do with the reunion of the Community. There is one fact of particular importance: both regions, both the donor and the recipient, have expressed a favourable opinion. Therefore, it is a case that I would define more unique than rare, a very specific and particular condition, punctual and not extensible to other situations. Finally, I would like to say, with regard to the subject of the instrument used, that in terms of constitutionality the Department of Studies of the Senate has been clear, stating that: "the procedure described also applies when, as in the case under consideration, it is expected that a local authority will be detached from a region with ordinary status (in the case of Veneto) and the aggregation to a region with special status (in the case of Friuli-Venezia Giulia). The procedure provided for in the second paragraph of Article 132 does not distinguish between Regions with ordinary statutes and Regions with special statutes (the boundaries of which are identified by the statutes approved by constitutional law) In fact, Article 132 of the Constitution, while in the first paragraph it says that "It is possible by constitutional law, after hearing the Regional Councils, to arrange the merger of existing Regions or the creation of new Regions" in the second paragraph does not make any reference to laws of constitutional rank and simply says that "It is possible, with the approval of the majority of the populations of the Province or Provinces concerned and of the City or Municipalities concerned expressed by referendum and by law of the Republic (...)". Therefore, it is in no way recalled the need for a constitutional rule for the passage of the Municipality of Sappada from the Veneto Region to the Friuli-Venezia Giulia Region. For these reasons, the Government gives a favourable opinion on the draft law and already anticipates the opinion in favour of the two amendments that have been tabled. [[Applause from the PD Group and Senator Bisinella.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-09-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-881.ana.u32	I would like to say that the Presidency - and it is being distributed - has received the opinion of the 5th standing Commission on the draft law under consideration and on the amendments, which will be published in the annex to today's report.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-09-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-881.ana.u33	Mr President, I am in favour of Amendments Nos 1,100 and 1,200. I would point out that this last amendment incorporates the indications of the Budget Commission, which essentially correct, as regards the financial coverage of this proposal, the starting date from 2017, because of course the text was dismissed by the Commission last year and therefore it was necessary to update the starting date and the reference to the 2017-2019 three-year budget, with the consequent deletion of the fifth paragraph.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-09-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-881.ana.u34	Mr President, I agree with the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-09-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-881.ana.u35	We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment No 1,100. BIGNAMI (Misto-MovX). We call for simultaneous ballots to be carried out by electronic means. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1,100, tabled by Senator Piccoli. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1,200, tabled by Senator Torrisi. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B).
ParlaMint-IT_2017-09-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-881.ana.u36	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-09-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-881.ana.u37	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-09-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-881.ana.u38	BELLOT (Misto-Fare!). Mr President, Mr Undersecretary, ladies and gentlemen, today we finally listen to the voice of Sappada and the sappadini; the voice of a population that has chosen not to scream and to carry out its demands with exemplary determination and innate dignity. I wonder and ask you, ladies and gentlemen, can politics afford not to listen? Or worse, as happened in recent months for Sappada and as has happened for too many years for all the other municipalities referendari of Belluno (and not only, but of our entire nation), can pretend not to hear? Today, ladies and gentlemen, it is an important day, as I said yesterday and I repeat it in conclusion of my speech. I think it is also in terms of responsibility and reflection on the role of politics and of Parliament. I should therefore also like to thank the members of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and the Budget for understanding the reasons for the draft law under consideration and the citizens of Sappada. In addition to the will expressed in a referendum, the constitutionality of the measure has also been supported by the 1st Commission and the budget cover by the Commission, so I would like to thank my colleagues. I would also like to call for reflection first of all to those in this House who have preferred to postpone, always to those who, in summary, have deliberately chosen not to listen. The reason for this attitude is known, I would say sadly characterizing and at the same time distant from the duties, functions and tasks that are called upon to carry out those who have the privilege of sitting among these benches. Today Sappada turns the page and I apologize to the sappadini for the delays they have had to suffer because of other people, other colleagues, or the politics in general who did not want to listen to their requests. I apologise to them and to the citizens of all the municipalities that have been waiting too long for answers that are due and no longer to be postponed and to which I express my full solidarity. From me and the Fare Group! With Tosi, I extend to the administration and citizens of Sappada sincere and true wishes of heart for the new path undertaken, trusting, as has been requested by others and the rapporteur herself, the seriousness of the political forces that today with this favourable vote are committed to supporting and accelerating the whole process of approval. I hope that this passage will not be the end of this bill, but that as soon as possible the House will have the opportunity to discuss it and approve it before the end of the legislature, because otherwise it would really be an unforgivable and unforgivable act on the part of color that today are posing to give an answer, but then behind the scenes maybe work in a different way. My appeal is so that there is the correctness, seriousness and honesty to respond to the citizens to the full and give them the proper response that has remained firm in a correct and silent way, without protests or demonstrations, still with the conviction that there can be a window for a confirmation that politics is close to the citizens. [[Applause from the Mixed Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-09-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-881.ana.u39	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-09-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-881.ana.u40	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-09-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-881.ana.u41	DAVICO (FL (Id-PL, PLI)). Mr President, distinguished colleagues, what we are about to adopt is not a short-term rule, but what many of us consider to be a genuine act of justice in favour of the people of Sappa, who for ten long years have been waiting for Parliament's green light to give rise to an instance which was right in a referendum and which was later endorsed by the Regional Councils of Veneto and Friuli-Venezia Giulia. In this sense I immediately declare the vote in favour of the Federation of Freedom Group (Idea-People and Freedom, PLI). Today, therefore, we have the opportunity to finally offer an answer to the request that comes to us from Sappada that, like so many other questions received from different Italian localities, has unfortunately been lying for years, thus contravening a specific democratically expressed will by a whole community in the now distant 2008. We are called, without further delay and without hesitation, to give the green light to the reunion of a community, the Sappadine one, which geographically, historically and culturally is linked to Carnia. The rule in question, which I myself promoted as a co-signator in 2013, is essentially an act due also to the internationally recognized principle of the self-determination of peoples also within the same nation: a principle also recalled among the fundamental ones of our Constitution that, precisely because of the need to guarantee the local communities the possibility of self-determination and in the will not to impose other obstacles to this right, allows us to approve this rule without the formalities and majorities established, instead, for a law of constitutional rank. The opportunity represented by this vote allows us to bring to light another great problem that afflicts the area of the Venetian Dolomites and in particular the whole of Cadore. In fact, the strong and clear request from Sappada, in addition to finding its roots in history, language, in the tradition of a community that has German-speaking origins and common traits with the nearby localities of Carnia, is inevitably motivated also by an economic factor. It does not escape, in fact, that all the Cadore, as well as other mountain and foothill areas of Veneto bordering Trentino-Alto Adige and Friuli-Venezia Giulia, today suffer from a huge gap towards the nearby Trentino and Friulian localities that can enjoy all the undeniable benefits coming from the autonomous regional administration. The disparity between ordinary regions and autonomous regions in these mountainous territories of Veneto, and not only there, is extremely evident and is lived every day on the people's hands. Services, infrastructure, tourism promotion, support for the development of new receptive and commercial activities are markedly different between Veneto on the one hand and Trentino and Friuli on the other. A situation that, over the years, has caused a marked enrichment of South Tyrol, the tourist development of Carnia and, at the same time, a progressive impoverishment of the adjacent Belluno resorts. There is no doubt that the reality of the Autonomous Regions has favoured the development of the territories that have been able to enjoy all the constitutionally guaranteed benefits for these areas; so it was not for the Belluno, but also for parts of Vicenza and felt that suffer an economic situation of less well-being than other neighbouring municipalities, but belonging to different Regions. A condition that has not only economic but also social implications and which inevitably results in the abandonment of the mountain communities of Veneto by young people forced to go elsewhere in search of a job and the possibility of leading a dignified life. Therefore, the will expressed by the community of Sappada, which has the right reasons to ask to be aggregated to the province of Udine, must come to this House also as a request for more attention from the Government, the administration and - not least - the legislator towards entire territories forced today to face up to a limited availability of tools to meet the increasingly competitive tourist and social offers of the surrounding areas. A problem that cannot be solved with an endless series of detachments from Veneto and aggregations to neighbouring regions, but that requires, even in compliance with Article 9 of our Constitution, the adoption of a policy of valorization and support to mountain and foothill areas that preserve a significant part of the environmental and landscape heritage of our territory. Otherwise, in the coming years we will risk having to redraw the borders not only of these Regions but also of others who in Italy find themselves experiencing the same disadvantage. Hoping that the measures necessary to support the less developed mountain areas can be elaborated and adopted soon and well and new development policies will be conceived for this and for many other more disadvantaged territories, I reiterate the support of the Federation of Liberty Group to the legitimate request made by this community of our compatriots that by culture, feeling and tradition gravitated on the province of Udine, of which it was also an integral part until 1852, and that already for a long time, too, awaits an answer in this sense to resume to live and hope in a condition that it considers better.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-09-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-881.ana.u42	Senator Stefani could have spoken in an explanation of vote, but she is absent for the well-known political reasons.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-09-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-881.ana.u43	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-09-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-881.ana.u44	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-09-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-881.ana.u45	LO MORO (Art. 1-MDP). Mr President, the arguments and the problematic nature of the debate on this draft law, both in the Commission and in this House, lead us to look carefully and in some way with concern at procedures aimed at varying regional boundaries. It is a concern which has been taken up by several colleagues and which our Group shares. Today, however, it is a question of expressing our views on a specific case, and that is what we must look at in order to express our orientation and our vote. The detachment of the Municipality of Sappada from the Veneto Region and its aggregation with Friuli-Venezia Giulia takes place against an expression of will in this sense almost plebiscytic of the sappadini, which took place in the referendum of 9 and 10 March 2008, in which 75% of those entitled took part, who expressed themselves almost unanimously, i.e. 95% in favour. It also happens with the favourable opinion of the Councils of the two Regions involved and above all it takes place on the basis of solid historical, cultural and linguistic reasons in favour of the reconstitution of a community that, although divided from a geographical point of view, has never seen the solid bonds that hold it together fail. On the substance, therefore, the draft law goes in the right direction. I would add that there are no problems at procedural level and, indeed, the existing legislation is fully respected from the second paragraph of Article 132 of the Constitution. In this last profile I add, with reference to the circumstance that we are about to sanction the transition from a Region to an ordinary statute to a Region with a special Statute, that the procedure provided for in the Constitution does not provide for any distinction and is applicable to the transition from one Region to another regardless of whether it is Regions with an ordinary statute or Regions with a special Statute. The Undersecretary, who gave the Government's opinion, also stressed this fact a short while ago. For these reasons, in agreeing on the substance of the draft law, which has behind it a referendum and the opinion of the two regions involved, on behalf of Group Article 1 - MDP, I declare the vote in favour of the draft law under consideration. [[Applause from the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and ……]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-09-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-881.ana.u46	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-09-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-881.ana.u47	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-09-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-881.ana.u48	DE PIN (GAL (DI, GS, MPL, RI)). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the municipality of Sappada finally passes from Veneto to Friuli-Venezia Giulia. The citizens of Sappada feel Friulian, always close to that territory; a closeness that is expressed not only in terms of geographical contiguity, but also in terms of economic structure and historical and cultural proximity. The referendum was overwhelmed by the yes with 95% of the votes and nine years after this clear result it is clear and necessary that citizens should have a definitive response. Sappada, until 1852, was part of the province of Udine and the socio-cultural ties certainly remained, including the dialect of the areas. Beyond the economic-cultural reasons, I am in favour of this detachment because the popular will must prevail, because so specifies our Constitution, beyond any calculation or political deployment. It is no coincidence that popular rights that can be exercised mainly through legislative initiative and referendums are a non-negotiable prerogative. The failure to respect the expression of the majority of voters would be devastating in a democracy of our kind and would risk creating an ever deeper groove between citizens and states and we really cannot afford it. The aim is to create a political class capable of respecting the will of the people, also and especially when it manifests itself with different orientations from the desires of the party, in order to fill more and more the deficit of representation experienced by many citizens. Mr President, for all these reasons, I am voting in favour and in favour of my Group's Grand Autonomous and Liberty Group.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-09-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-881.ana.u49	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-09-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-881.ana.u50	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-09-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-881.ana.u51	ZELLER (Aut (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT)-PSI-MAIE). Mr President, the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats is in favour of this. We believe that the referendum vote and the will of the citizens of Sappada must be respected. There are also the positive views of the regions concerned. We are of the opinion that, in this specific case, there are all the cultural, linguistic and historical presuppositions to support the passage of the Municipality of Sappada from the Veneto Region to the Friuli-Venezia Giulia Region, also because - I regret to say - the Veneto Region, for its minorities (including the Ladin minority of the three municipalities of Cortina d'Ampezzo, Villa Longo and Colle), has never done more than so to support its historical but also linguistic and cultural reasons. This also explains the tendency to join the regions with a special neighbouring statute, in this case Friuli-Venezia Giulia and, in our case (i.e. the Ladins), the Trentino-Alto Adige/Südtirol Region. On the other hand, we are concerned about the instrument used, i.e. the ordinary law. We have always - and not only us, but also a large part of the doctrine - argued that to modify the territory of a region with a special statute serves a constitutional law. This is for the simple reason that the territory of the Region under special statute is governed by the statutes themselves, i.e. by a constitutional standard. It is clear that, if you change the territory of a Region with a special statute, in extreme cases the nature of the specialty may fail. For example, since all the municipalities of the Province of Belluno have asked for the aggregation of the Region Trentino-Alto Adige-Südtirol, if this passage is permitted by ordinary law, the nature of the Region with Special Statute, the linguistic composition and perhaps, if the municipalities of Belluno were aggregated to the Autonomous Province of Bolzano, also the relations between the various language groups would be totally distorted. We are therefore of the opinion that we should act with a constitutional law. For this reason, we too, proposing the passage of the three municipalities of Cortina d'Ampezzo, Colle Santa Lucia and Livinallongo del Col di Lana to our Region, proposed the instrument of constitutional law. I am aware of the Constitutional Court's ruling No 66 of 2007 which states otherwise, but the Court allows ordinary law as an instrument and does not require it. It would therefore be more appropriate to proceed in this way, even in order to avoid negative precedents, which are not respectful of special autonomy. We do not all have a unanimous position on this within our Group. As I said, on the subject we share the passage of the Municipality of Sappada to the Region Friuli-Venezia Giulia, but with an instrument that does not seem to us the most appropriate one. That is why part of our group will vote in favour and another part will abstain.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-09-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-881.ana.u52	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-09-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-881.ana.u53	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-09-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-881.ana.u54	WRITER IN TOR (AP-CpE-NCD). Mr President, I would like to point out that my Group will vote 'yes', but I have to say very strongly that both in Parliament and in the Veneto region there is a great hypocrisy about what we are saying and doing: that is my opinion. Let us bear in mind that in the last twelve years in Veneto there have been thirty-one referendums to pass municipalities to Friuli-Venezia Giulia or to Trentino-Alto Adige. Repeat, 31 referendums. Of them, almost all have won the yes; only sixteen of them have reached a majority of 51 percent and are therefore valid. Therefore, when we say that we want to respect the will of the people, we must know that in Parliament's classrooms in the coming years we will have to say yes to sixteen municipalities if we want to be consistent with what we are saying. The same must be done by the Regional Council of Veneto, the Regional Council of Friuli-Venezia Giulia and the Provincial Councils of Trentino-Alto Adige. Now Mr Zeller has said that he is willing to receive Cortina, as if to say: give us the gold that is good for us, but the rest we do not want. It's easy to reason this way. Why have these 31 municipalities asked to move to the Friuli-Venezia Giulia Region or to Trentino-Alto Adige? Look, I'm a Venetian, but I'm a councilman in a municipality that borders Sappada. The real reality is that here too there is a great mystification: we speak of culture, of many things, of history, of ethnicities. The banality is only one: the citizens of those municipalities on the border see the difference of the transfers of the State to the Regions Friuli-Venezia Giulia and Trentino-Alto Adige. Let's not make fun of each other. In all the border municipalities there are different stories, different cultures and more. So we have to say bread to bread and wine to wine. The State has adopted a number of laws on border areas to deal with this problem, for example the so-called Brancher measures. However, these laws have not been financed, at least in part, and the differences in transfer are evident. We therefore think of resolving the problem by agreeing to democracy and respect for the will of the people; that is very good. I repeat, however, that there are sixteen municipalities for which we must ensure that the people's will is respected. I also assure you that, once we start this phenomenon, given the absence of a fair response from the State to transfers between the Regions with ordinary statutes and those with special statutes, border by border, between many municipalities, there will be a run for this road. Therefore, if Parliament and the State do not review and balance transfers and policies with these regions, we will risk creating a condition of inequality that will not be understood by citizens. October 22 is not a date in its own right; the vote in Veneto for the autonomy of the Province of Belluno and for the greater autonomy of the Region, is also the result of the sedimentation of a question regarding these policies, to which no answer has been given. Citizens, who confront each other every day with differences one meter across their borders, perceive these things. I repeat, then, that we are opening a path that we underestimate and perhaps give the wrong answer to. Therefore, despite the fact that my Group will vote in favour of this measure in our examination, I believe that Parliament must make an important reflection on these issues. [[Applause from the AP-CpE-NCD Group, PD and FL (Id-PL, PLI).]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-09-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-881.ana.u55	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-09-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-881.ana.u56	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-09-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-881.ana.u57	DE PETRIS (Misto-SI-SEL). Mr President, the Senators of the Italian Left will vote in favour of the bill when we examine it. Moreover, both in the course of the work done in the Commission and in the various attempts to approve it, we have always done our part. We will vote in favour because we fully agree on the need to respect democracy and the will of the citizens, in a situation that is not similar to many others. We are in fact faced with the situation of a community, which is a linguistic enclave and also from the point of view of traditions; it has gravitated for centuries and continues to gravitate, for economic interests and affinity, around the Province of Udine. It is clear that we must not emphasize this; we are not talking about self-determination. I understand that the recent events in Catalonia can also bring to mind a debate here, which perhaps would also be appropriate. We are, however, about to respect the outcome of the referendum. I would also like to point out that ten years have passed, and this has therefore been a very long and difficult process. There is also an issue, raised by my previous colleague, which we will have to bear in mind. I have heard a veiled concern that many other municipalities can take the same path. It is therefore up to us, the Government and Parliament, to address the issue of the territorial rebalancing of transfers. I would remind you that there is a widespread disparity in Italy and that the municipalities and local authorities, because of the heavy and substantial transfers and cuts, have endured great sacrifices. It is clear, then, that some pressures, which may be of an economic nature, must be governed seriously by the subject we are dealing with. Another thing is a situation like the one that has come to create in the Municipality of Sappada, because - I repeat - we are talking about a Germanophone enclave and a community that has cultural affinities and historical traditions with the territories of Friuli-Venezia Giulia and Carinthia. Therefore, the referendum is indeed the democratic expression of a will that should be considered natural in this case. It is then evident that, being the economy of the Municipality of Sappada based exclusively on winter sports and the mountain, the attraction towards a Region with special statute like Friuli-Venezia Giulia also has economic motivations. Precisely for this reason, with reference to other aspirations and issues that are being posed in our country in many municipalities, especially in border areas with Regions with special Statute, I believe it is time to address with seriousness also the theme of a rebalancing of transfers, both in perspective, that on the occasion that shortly is offered to us by the financial maneuver. In my view, the procedures have been constitutionally correct and, therefore, I believe that from this point of view there is absolutely nothing to say, as confirmed by the Committee on Constitutional Affairs. For all these reasons, I confirm our vote in favour. [[Applause from the Misso-SI-SEL Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-09-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-881.ana.u58	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-09-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-881.ana.u59	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-09-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-881.ana.u60	ENDRIZZI (M5S). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the fact that we are discussing in the Assembly the detachment of the Municipality of Sappada from Veneto only today, eleven years after the start of the process, is emblematic of the abyss that separates these Palaces from the territories and of the lack of attention - I want to be courteous - that the majority addresses to the legitimate will of citizens and local administrations. Eleven years have passed and there have never been any difficulties or obstacles, yet the saps are still suspended waiting for their will and rights to be recognized. It is not surprising, then, if the government party continues to take sound and emblematic rejections to the administrative authorities. I think of Genoa and Pistoia, but also Carrara, Fabriano and Guidonia, where the 5 Star Movement was chosen. And it is not long before we present ourselves, more or less disguised, behind the screen of other civic lists, because if that is the way in which the majorities of government occupy Parliament, their distance from the citizens is now sidereal. Pass me a bitter beat: the real detachment is not that of the Municipality of Sappada from Veneto to Friuli-Venezia Giulia, but that between PD and citizens. The approval process of this bill proves that to say the least embarrassing. [[Comments from the PD Group]] Let's go through it again. In July 2007, at the request of more than 400,000 citizens, the City Council decided to refer an advisory referendum for the passage of Sappada to the Autonomous Region of Friuli-Venezia Giulia, within the Province of Udine. The vote was held on 9 and 10 March 2008: the turnout was 75.3 percent (i.e. 903 voters) and the yess won with 95% of the votes. On 18 March 2009, the Provincial Council of Udine approved the agenda for the passage of Sappada to the Friuli-Venezia Giulia Region. Both the Regional Council of Friuli-Venezia Giulia, on 23 November 2010, and the Regional Council of Veneto, on 28 June 2012, expressed their favourable opinion. On 8 January 2014, the Parliamentary Committee on Regional Affairs also gave a favourable opinion. Then? Then, although it was a simple and shared bill, which could have been fired in a few hours, the popular will has never been given space in the calendar of the 1st Commission, occupied as it was by the "deformed" of the Renzian PD. I am referring to the wretched Delrio law, which has pretended to abolish the Provinces, but it has only distorted them and removed them from the popular vote, and the fake abolition of the financing of the parties, reworded under disguised lies, and then ended up with an unconstitutional electoral law valid only for a House, whose effects we now see, because they would have repaired with the reform of the Constitution. The reform of the Constitution has been degraded to the sanatorium of an ordinary law. It wasn't a "deform" that Italy needed, because others were the urgencies, but it was the PD's job to strike power. These are the logics. The times in the Commission have always been decided by the Democratic Party, forcing when they needed propaganda ads and slowing down when it bothered them. So the law on lobbying, the one that protects those who denounce corruption (the so-called whistleblower) and many other measures such as this bill, have been frozen, while measures have gone forward that honestly, colleagues, you cannot define priorities. It took more than two years for this measure to be scheduled and, at that point, it was sufficient to verify that the request met widely the requirements of geographical continuity, economic and social homogeneity and historical-cultural proximity of the Municipality of Sappada to the Region of destination, provided for by the law, to understand that it was a almost obvious and very rapid passage. Then again, nothingness. Despite repeated protests and complaints from local institutions, today that, I repeat, we are in September 2017 and another year and a half has passed, we are approaching the end of the legislature and still lack the passage to the House. Why? Should we think that there is some kind of allergy to the majority of government - and to the Democratic Party in particular - to accept the will of the people? [[Comments from the PD Group.]] The facts indicate it. Think of the annoyance for the popular consultation on a possible greater autonomy for Veneto and Lombardy: Government and PD had the courage to say it's wasted money. Would it be a waste to ask citizens what they really want? For you, perhaps, but I remember that this alleged waste was wanted by the Government, denying the election day that would save, yes, 14 million euros public. The refractory nature of the PD to the popular will, however, has distant origins: we saw it with the betrayal of the outcome of the referendum on public water of 2011, first treated sufficiently, then, at the last moment, shared, on the wave of millions of signatures, and then definitively betrayed in this legislature with the law Madia. We saw how vile the referendum against drilling was in 2016: citizens collected millions of signatures for six referendums, the government got scared and what did it do? In extremis, he changed the law, mowing five; on the survivor the state silence of the new RAI wanted by the PD, during the campaign referendaria has dropped. They play the same game with the referendum on work, with the addition of an atrocious mockery on vouchers: once again, citizens collected millions of signatures, but the government changed the law, to avoid a referendum that would be an avalanche for the Democratic Party and then, escaped the danger and vile citizens, basically reintroduced the vouchers, with characteristics, in some ways, absolutely identical. Are we aware of the confrontation with democracy? How important, then, Mr President, for this majority, which betrays an entire nation, the request of a local community? In these months, both in the Conference of the Leaders, and in the Assembly, the 5 Star Movement has repeatedly called for the timing of the measure under consideration, finding a wall of rubber of opposing votes and referrals by the majority. Today, which perhaps pays, more close to the general elections, you can see a light at the bottom of the tunnel in which this measure had fallen. Again, however, I repeat, there is no transition to the Chamber and here I want to reiterate some concepts of absolute importance. The first is that the Five Star Movement is, by its principles, in favour of all the instruments of direct democracy, first of all the referendum, which is the highest expression of it. The second is that the Five Star Movement opposes and strongly opposes the suffocation of the rebellious territories. I am sorry what I heard from Mr Dalla Tor just now, because we must defend the popular will of the Venetian Municipalities, when it is legitimate and based on a right. We cannot give oblique reasons that are beyond the specific merit and careful evaluation of the legitimacy of the request. Any other community that affirms the principles of self-determination in accordance with the Constitution of the Republic must be respected. We demonstrated this respect with the battle in defence of the Constitution and local autonomy, won on December 4, 2016. We show this today, in accordance with Article 132 of the Constitution, by voting, of course, in favour of the draft law for our examination. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-09-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-881.ana.u61	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-09-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-881.ana.u62	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-09-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-881.ana.u63	SMALL (FI-PdL XVII). The ordinary bill to our attention consists of a single article that regulates the procedure for the detachment of the Municipality of Sappada from Veneto and its aggregation to the Region Friuli-Venezia Giulia in accordance with the procedure referred to in Article 132, paragraph 2, of the Constitution. Obviously, the forecast in this text takes into account the decision expressed in the consultative referendum of 9 and 10 March 2008 of the Sappada community. It, after passing the quorum provided for by Law No 352 of 1970, with 95 percent of the votes in favour, chose to join the Region with which it borders, leaving the Veneto Region to which it currently belongs. Moreover, the two regions affected by the territorial variation expressed their favourable opinion, as required by the constitutional norm, thus offering Parliament a further element, albeit not binding, as the Province of Belluno and that of Udine spoke in a favourable sense. Sappada, as has been said, is a small municipality (1,300 inhabitants) close to the homonymous Dolomite peak, on the Carnic Alps, crossed by the river Piave. The history of Sappada starts from the 10th century and is mainly linked to the Province of Udine, which leaves in 1852, to pass to that of Belluno. In the village, which is a place with a strong winter and summer tourist vocation, with an extraordinary environmental heritage, there are three different museums (ethnographic, peasant civilization and the Great War) synonymous with a lively variety of cultural and artistic initiatives strongly rooted in the local tradition. In the valorization of its own tradition and culture and in the recognition of Sappada as a German-speaking linguistic island, a vocabulary of the Sappadino dialect has also been developed, born from the need to create an instrument within the reach of anyone who wants to consult it. In short, we are faced with an active reality that, considering its origin and its civil and religious stone, is certainly more recognized in the Friulian reality than in the Venetian one. Therefore, a set of singular characteristics, which, at a first and superficial approach, could be sufficient to motivate the detachment. Mr President, it is necessary, however, to go further: the request of the inhabitants of Sappada brings back to the economic and social hardship experienced daily by the ordinary territories adjacent to areas of regions with differentiated systems. The request of Sappada brings back to the concrete need of a mountain territory to modernize the tourist offer in the plant and the receptive part, and responds to the needs of those who work, those who undertake, those who provide services and those who benefit from it. It concerns the daily lives of citizens, businesses and bodies. It also responds to the need to have adequate administrative and financial instruments to support the development of the territory. There is no doubt that one of the reasons that supported the broad success of the referendum among the population is the need to be able to look towards a future characterized by economic, administrative and legislative conditions more conducive to development. In other words, attempts at migration to regions with special status by ordinary territories are caused by strong existing imbalances affecting, particularly in this period of unfavourable economic conditions, small local realities, in particular families and businesses, resulting in depopulation and economic and social impoverishment. Not only the municipalities bordering Friuli as Sappada, but many others in the Province of Belluno have declared themselves in favour of the transition to another Region (Lamon, Voltago Agordino, Sovereign, Taibon Agordino, towards Trentino-Alto Adige). At the same time, the case of Sappada is the emblem of criticality concerning the East, 28 municipalities of Veneto, bordering Friuli-Venezia Giulia and 35 municipalities bordering, to the West, the Trentino-Alto Adige. In the absence of incisive actions that address the condition I mentioned, we will be faced with a real devastating domino effect for the Province of Belluno and ungovernable, in the case of the other part of the Venetian territory, motivated by anachronistic privileges and guarantees that, moreover, the constitutional reform rejected on December 4 had not even - faultfully - remotely faced, revealing a political action of the Democratic Party unable to give the necessary answers of fairness and equal competitive opportunities to the populations concerned, together with the inability to face the plan of a new and efficient government of the territory, expressing, in my opinion, the political arrogance of this position and the lack of will to listen to and accompany the territories. On the other hand, the resistance shown on several occasions to the timing of this measure is the further proof of insensitivity to the problem. The answers expected from the populations concerned therefore concern the relationship between so-called ordinary territories and territories with special status, with all the load of unequal treatment that this brings with it. Precisely for this reason, and in order to contribute to the search for practical solutions, I had presented and had requested several times the calendarization of the bill n. 2279 shared by the Association of Border Municipalities, concerning actions and projects in favour of the territories of the municipalities of the Veneto Region neighboring the Friuli-Venezia Giulia Region, taking up the model of the border funds recognized to the territories of Veneto and Lombardy neighboring the Region Trentino-Alto Adige/Südtirol and known as funds Calderoli-Brancher, improving, if possible, the modalities of disbursement especially regarding the strategic profile attributed to these funds. If a serious examination had been initiated, which is a prerequisite for appropriate measures, we would probably not be here to discuss the subject on the agenda. Even the ordinary actions allowed to local and territorial authorities can not come to the aid, waiting that the last Governments Monti, Letta, Renzi and Gentiloni have reduced to impotence the municipalities, have eliminated the concrete possibility of adequate territorial programs by the Regions with ordinary statutes, have eliminated the operation of the Provinces as an effective instrument of coordination and programming through the implementation of the law Delrio, literally leading them to the operational and financial disaster. I am sure that the consultative referendum that will be held in Veneto and Lombardy on 22 October will help to clarify to all that it is necessary to assign further forms of autonomy to the Regions with ordinary statutes, proceeding to an indispensable rebalancing of the administrative system of our country as the very presupposition of the social cohesion of the territories. In conclusion, Mr President, I personally consider it necessary, even if it is painful for me in Belluno, to allow the saps to take this new path, while at the same time hoping that Parliament and the Government will respond urgently and in an organic way to the serious issues that today's decision leaves unsolved behind. That is why I am voting in favour of our Group. [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-09-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-881.ana.u64	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-09-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-881.ana.u65	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-09-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-881.ana.u66	Mr Russo (PD). Mr President, as many previous Members have repeatedly mentioned, today the Senate is finally called upon to adopt a draft law which - we have to admit - comes to the attention of this House with some guilty delay. In fact, the rule that, pursuant to Article 132 of the Constitution, arranges the detachment of the Municipality of Sappada from the Veneto Region and the aggregation to the Region Friuli-Venezia Giulia was born as a response, euphemistically not timely, to the initiative taken by that territory even ten years ago, when the City Council made the request for a popular consultative referendum in order to allow the citizens to express their opinion on this matter. Well, as we know, the will of the sappadini was clear: the vote was held on 9 and 10 March 2008 and, out of a total of 1,199 entitled, as has been pointed out, they went to the polls 903 voters, 75%, and of these 860 they spoke for the yes: 95%. I would add, then, to what emerged in this debate two very brief considerations and a reflection linked to the topicality of what is happening in these hours in Europe. Anyone who knows the reality of that territory knows that the reasons of the sappadini are, from the historical point of view, absolutely founded. Although Sappada has been part of the Province of Belluno for more than 150 years, it retains an original German-speaking cultural and linguistic identity, probably rooted in the settlement of a nucleus of Austrian families in the 11th century. From that moment Sappada belonged to the gastaldia of Carnia (incorporated in 1420, along with all the territories of the patriarchate, in the dominion of the Republic of Venice), and, just after the alternation of the French and Austrian dominations, was detached from Carnia, then from Friuli, in March 1852, when from the Province of Udine passes to that of Belluno (already among the protests of its inhabitants). It should also be remembered that, during the Second World War, the country was part of the Free Republic of Carnia and that for ecclesiastical jurisdiction it remained, without any continuity, linked to the diocese of Udine, heir to the suppressed patriarchate of Aquileia. From a cultural point of view, therefore, there is no doubt that Sappada has a strong affinity with the nearby Carnic communities, with which it has always shared, as well as the profile of the common mountains, culture, values, territory, destiny and hardships, and that the referendum of ten years ago represents a strong and legitimate demand for self-government and Alpine administration capable of involving and relaunching the entire area-system of Carnia and Val Degano. In this connection, I would like to refer to a second point. In addition to the historical reasons already mentioned, it must be reiterated that the expectations of the citizens of Sappada are absolutely legitimated by the path that has been followed under the constitutional dictation. For this territory, in fact, the requirements of the law are fully valid: the geographical contiguity, the same economic and social structure, the historical and cultural proximity, as was recalled precisely by the meritorious initiative of my colleague Isabella De Monte. And, even more decisive, there has been an affirmation of the univocal and clear popular will, beyond any reasonable doubt. I will return shortly to some of the problems that some Members have legitimately expressed in the debate, but I believe it is absolutely necessary to acknowledge that when citizens express themselves with such strength, unity and determination, through an instrument recognised by our Constitution, it is the obligation of the legislator to offer an adequate response and corresponding to the democratically expressed aspirations. We could - and we have done so in the context of constitutional reform too - discuss for a long time whether a referendum is always and in any case the best and most faithful way of recognizing the will of the people, but it is certain that when the citizens have spoken it is impossible to ignore it. In this connection, I would like to draw attention, in conclusion, to the reflection of my colleague, Mr Sonego, who yesterday stressed the risk, which is now dramatically topical in the light of the Catalan affair, of affirming a purely national and identity principle in the definition of borders (in this case, regional but also state borders). I say to my colleague that his concern in general terms is certainly also ours, but this is a different case, as the Undersecretary Pizzetti has well recalled and that the absolute and transversal unity of intent of the citizens of Sappada, the justification of their aspiration, the pronunciation favorable, then only partially retreated for instrumental electoral contingency, of the Regional Councils of Veneto and Friuli-Venezia Giulia, make absolutely clear that there are no elements of a distorted and potentially conflictual use of this affair. One thing must be said about this, even in future memory. I believe that a different reflection would in all probability have made the Senate Assembly if this choice had created or had been born of institutional rifts, territorial conflicts and unilateral claims not shared by majorities that, instead, we could define almost plebiscites, and if the recognition of the will of the sappadini had not been so general and transversal. Then, thankfully, there is Europe: the events of these hours remind us of something that we should always keep in mind and that we would like to be of good hope (it is a wish that we express for the positive solution of the institutional crisis that is affecting Spain). If it is true, in fact, that the condition of minorities and territorial specificities, their autonomy, the recognition of their specific characteristics and their rights, their protection are, as we sometimes wisely say, the best thermometer of the proper functioning of a democratic system, it is equally true that history teaches that often, precisely in the name of malicious separatist aspirations, by exploiting tragic events of linguistic and cultural minorities, by aiding one against the other national groups, forced into unnatural borders, the twentieth century has seen the worst nefariousnesses and worst mistakes made. That is why we believe that Europe, which is not - and we should always remember - but a group of minorities, is the best framework within which the right demands for the protection of minority groups and the different aspirations of the territories will have to find more and more listening and, if possible, a general standardisation, now entrusted to the national states. It is precisely the common European context that is the best guarantee that this will become an opportunity for greater cohesion and not a reason for divisions and conflicts, which we want to leave permanently to the history of the last century. That is why the Democratic Party will vote in favour of this proposal when we consider it. [[Applause from the PD Group and Senator Bisinella]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-09-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-881.ana.u67	We shall therefore proceed to the final vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-09-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-881.ana.u68	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-09-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-881.ana.u69	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-09-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-881.ana.u70	ISGRO CHOLIPOTI' (FI-PdL XVII). We call for the vote to be taken by simultaneous ballot by electronic means.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-09-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-881.ana.u71	I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I refer to the nominal vote by simultaneous ballot of the unified text of the draft law no. 951 and 1082, composed of only Article 1, in the amended text, with the following title: Distack of the municipality of Sappada from the Veneto region and aggregation to the Friuli-Venezia Giulia region. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). [[Applause from the PD and Mixed Groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-09-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-881.ana.u72	The next item is the debate on draft law Nos. 2304 and 2355. The report has already been printed and distributed. I would ask the rapporteurs whether they intend to supplement it.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-09-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-881.ana.u73	Mr President, the bill, which contains provisions for the celebration of the two thousand years since the death of Publius Ovidio Nasone, which we will vote on today, is a further component, after other measures such as those relating to cinema and live entertainment, which mark the valorization of our immense cultural heritage and a special attention to the formation of young people. The grandeur of Publius Ovid's literary work Nasone is recognized worldwide, two thousand years after his death, as a common heritage. The present bill submitted for consideration by the Assembly is the result of the synthesis of two draft laws, namely the Senate Act 2304, at the first signature of Senator Pelino, and the Senate Act 2355, at the first signature of Senator Pezzopane. The 7th Commission, in addition to a unified text, proposed by the rapporteurs through various stages in which both the rapporteurs' amendments and amendments of various parts of the Commission were accepted, produced a final text which was widely shared, which saw the broad and cross-cutting adherence of political forces, with the abstention of the 5 Star Movement and the Left-Italian Ecology Freedom component of the Mixed Group. Thanks to this unified bill the work of Ovid, for too many years marginalized from the high school benches because it is foreign to the classical Oratian and Virgilian composure, characterized by a passionate and unconventional vein in contrast with the traditional values of the Augustan Rome, a vein that flows free and determines the modernity of the poet and the work, opens to a greater and more widespread knowledge of students, through projects and initiatives of public and private bodies, in a program of national and international cultural events that also promote the valorization of the Ovidian places. Sulmona, the ancient Sulmo, is the land that two thousand years ago gave birth to the elegiac poet, March 20, 43 BC. Son of a wealthy family of the equestrian class, at the age of twelve he moved to Rome, together with his brother, to complete his studies of grammar and rhetoric. But he did not become a ruler: he immediately felt inclined to poetry. After a visit to Athens, to the cities of Asia Minor and Egypt and a year's stay in Sicily, contrary to his father's will he devoted himself to literary studies, entered the circle of Mecenate and had stimulating contacts with the most important poets of the time: Horace, Propertius, Virgil. He then produced works such as the Amores, the Heroides, the Remedia amoris, the Metamorphosis, the Fasti, but above all what was the poem in elegiac distichous, the work of maturity that perhaps cost him exile: the Ars amatoria. We are in the historical period of the Augustan pax, in which the costumes and morals, with the Hellenistic influence, tend to relax. Ovid, the youngest of the elegiac poets, rejects the contradictions of time, rejects the fixed and rigid values of the old Roman society, to open up to the fashions of time, according to the taste of the public. In 8 A.D. it falls into Augustus' misfortune and is relegated to the distant Tomi, today Constance, in the Scizia, center on the Black Sea in the current Romania. In the work Tristia, which he writes in exile, he writes: "Perdiderint cum me duo criminale, carmen et error, altrius face culpa silenda mihi". I mean: "Two crimes have lost me, a carme and a mistake: and the fault of the second I must keep silent." From here he continues to write other memorable works, such as the Epistulae ex Ponto and, indeed, the Tristia. Despite the great literary fervour, the author will never succeed in obtaining, until the end of his life, the longing return to his homeland. His attempts to convince the emperor, first Augustus, then Tiberius, proved completely useless. He will die in Tomi on A.D. 17, without ever having had the chance to return to his native land. It is therefore important today, after two thousand years, that our country proudly remembers the great elegiac writer who gave lustre to the world. This act aims to render justice to Ovid, honor his memory, but above all to enhance, protect and put at the center of the attention of the cultural world and in particular of young people his prestigious figure, through initiatives of research and promotion of his places and his literary work. In the merit of the article, asking also for help to Senator Marin who has drawn up the report with me, I must say that Article 1 defines the purposes of the bill aimed at safeguarding and promoting the cultural, historical, artistic and literary heritage of Publio Ovidio Nasone in the national and international context. Article 2 lists in detail the different interventions to be undertaken to promote its figure and work, financing in the years 2017 and 2018 projects of promotion, research, safeguard and knowledge of life, work and places related to the figure of Ovid. In particular, it is expected: the support for educational and cultural activities aimed at promoting, in Italy and abroad, the knowledge of his life and his work; the restoration, restoration and reorganization of the historical and artistic materials of Ovid; the identification in the city of Sulmona of a suitable place to host the Ovidian museum; the restoration of buildings and the reorganization of the places linked to his life and his work, in Sulmona and in the Peligna Valley; the establishment of an Ovidian literary park, as a tourist-cultural itinerary; the realization of an institutional twinning between the city of Sulmona and the city of - Rome, where he stayed for a long time - and the continuation of the twinning existing between the city of Sulmona and the city of Constance, Romania, place of exile. It is also envisaged to promote research and study activities in the Ovidian field, including through the publication of new materials and the provision of scholarships for university students and second grade secondary schools. It is therefore a perfect synthesis between the Ministry of Cultural Heritage and Activities and Tourism and the Ministry of Education, University and Research. Article 3 establishes the Committee promoting the knowledge of the life and work of Ovidio, chaired by the President of the Council of Ministers, composed of the Ministers of Cultural Heritage and Activities, Tourism and Education, University and Research, or by their delegates, the President of the Abruzzo Region, the Mayor of the Municipality of Sulmona, the President of the Tourist Destination of Sulmona-DMC Heart of the Apennines, three persons of clear fame of Latin culture and literature, experts of the life and works of Ovidio, appointed by decree of the Minister of Cultural Heritage and Activities and Tourism, in agreement with the Minister of Education, University and Research. The Promoter Committee shall remain in office until 31 December 2018, the date by which it shall send the President of the Council of Ministers a final report as well as the statement, which shall be in full transparency. A Scientific Committee, composed of no more than ten personalities, is to be set up to formulate the general guidelines for the initiatives referred to in the preceding Articles. The three experts appointed are legally members of the Scientific Committee, including the Committee elects its coordinator. It is therefore a complex structure, but slim at the same time. The Promoter Committee shall, on the basis of the guidelines of the Scientific Committee, draw up a programme of activities, monitor their implementation and identify the actors implementing each specific activity. It is also planned to publish all expenses, final activity and reporting on its website. In conclusion, the members of the committees are not granted any remuneration (this seems important to me), while the operating costs are borne by the extraordinary contribution referred to in Article 4. An element of novelty in the text concerns the establishment of a committee of young students of the Ovidian work, under the age of twenty-five years, called the Committee of the Fifty Ovidians, selected with a special call for proposals to the promoting committee and elects three representatives who participate in its work. It will also be possible to grant good studies to the members of the committee for particular initiatives to promote and deepen the work of Ovid. Finally, Article 4 provides for an extraordinary contribution of EUR 350 000 for each of the years 2017 and 2018, in favour of the Promoter Committee, for the preparation and implementation of a programme of financial interventions. I have to say thank you to the whole Commission because there really has been great harmony in the process of this draft law in which we have incorporated various proposals which we have tried to accept and harmonise as much as possible and which have led to a single design. It is another important piece for the formation of young people and for the recovery of our strong cultural roots, not to be forgotten, even after two thousand years. They must never be forgotten, even in these places. [[Applause from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-09-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-881.ana.u74	Mr President, I agree with the remarks made by Senator Fasiolo.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-09-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-881.ana.u75	I declare the general discussion open. She's enlisted to speak Senator Pelino. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-09-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-881.ana.u76	Mr President, representative of the Government, ladies and gentlemen, Publio Ovidio Nasone is the most modern among the ancients, so we could define it. To him one owes a work that, although more than two thousand years have passed, still shows all its extraordinary relevance. The measure proposed to the Assembly by the Public Education Commission, cultural assets of the Senate, which results from the unification of two draft laws presented, the first at the beginning of 2016 by the undersigned, proposes, precisely, to celebrate the two thousand years since the death of the Latin poet, in 17 AD, in Tomi, on the Black Sea. Ovid was born sixty years earlier in Sulmona, Abruzzo. The bill aims to assure the city of Sulmona, the Province of L'Aquila and the territory of the entire Abruzzo Region the possibility to remember adequately the figure and work of the great poet. This is an event of considerable importance and of a wide cultural scope, which certainly required a legislative intervention able to outline the framework of the events, the bodies dedicated to the promotion and formulation of the guidelines, as well as the resources necessary to carry out a series of important projects. Sulmona, the province of Aquilane and Abruzzo will therefore be at the center of a series of cultural initiatives for the promotion of the Ovidian work and for its development. There are various celebrations, especially in his city, already begun and which are continuing during this 2017. We are, in fact, in a center where you can breathe daily the presence of Ovid, a city that brings in its city symbol the acronym SMPE: "Sulmo mihi patria est", a verse taken from the Tristia, one of the most praised works of the poet. In Sulmona, a city that gave birth to him, also the municipal library and the classical high school bear the name of the great poet. Ovid is the author, among other things, also of Metamorphosis and Fasti, more mature works, to which were added other elegiac poems of the period of exile, including the Epistulae ex Ponto, through which he addressed elegies to the characters of Rome of his time, in order to plead the cause of the end of his exile and the return to Italy. But his end, as said, took place in a distant land, both from his hometown, and from the capital of the empire, which had adopted him and made him famous. A Roman poet, but of Abruzzo origin, moved very young to Rome, where he studied grammar and rhetoric, even before dedicating himself to poetry. He had been exiled in today's Constance, Romania, after having fallen into disgrace, under Augustus, because of a carmen, who had struck the sensibility of the first Roman emperor Ars amatoria is the masterpiece of Latin erotic poetry, where the elegiac poet treats the art of loving, intriguing the Roman women of the time, making many matrons fall in love, including, perhaps, Livia. And that interest in him by the third wife of Octavian Augustus was perhaps the cause of his exile. The bill provides for a series of interventions to be carried out during this year and during next year, 2018, in order to promote research and knowledge of life and work, but also of the places where Ovid lived. The first two articles outline the aims of development and promotion of the Ovidian cultural heritage and the range of initiatives aimed at achieving this ambitious objective, giving importance to the work and places of the Ovidian figure. These initiatives will cover the current year and will continue in 2018. Conferences, historical re-enactments, valorization of the places, cultural events to spread the work of the great poet with a wide range characterize a season that will bring the city of Sulmona to the center of attention, national and international. And the promotion will have to start from the many projects that are already underway and that are being developed during this year. In this sense, the recovery, reorganization and restoration of the artistic work and historical material will have to be promoted, precisely in order to host it in a museum of Ovid, to this end identified in the city of Sulmona. The reorganization and, where necessary, the restoration of buildings, of the places where Ovid lived and wrote, both in Sulmona and in the Peligna Valley, are part of the aims of this bill, which also aims to establish an Ovidian literary park, constituting a new tourist and cultural itinerary. There is also a series of twinnings between the cities that hosted Ovid: Sulmona, Rome and Constance. 11.15 a.m. (Follow PELINO). But we also consider it very important to provide scholarships for high school and university students who are engaged in research in the field of Ovidian studies. The researches are also promoted to facilitate the possible identification and publication of unpublished materials of the great poet. To coordinate what is hoped for a vast work of Ovidian celebrations, a promoting committee is established by this law, composed of the President of the Council of Ministers and the Ministers of Cultural Heritage and Activities and Education, as well as the President of the Abruzzo Region and the Mayor of Sulmona in order to enhance the figure of Ovid. A Scientific Committee, set up by the Promoter Committee and composed of a maximum of ten personalities of Latin culture and literary art, will be responsible for formulating the general guidelines of the initiatives indicated. There will also be a committee of young scholars (with a maximum age of 25 years) who will have the task of making proposals to the promoting committee. These young scholars will be selected with a special call from the Ministry of Education. Obviously, the purpose of this provision is also to promote a greater international diffusion of the work and thought of the Latin poet. The bill is entrusted with a not excessive, but symbolically adequate, budget of 350,000 euros for each of the years 2017 and 2018, based on the private budget of the institutes pertaining to the field of archives and libraries, in the estimate of the expenditure of the Ministry of Cultural Heritage and Activities and Tourism. We are committed to being of spur and control, so that that financial dowry can be used to the best and lay the foundations for continuing this year also in the coming years, as an invitation to progress in the study and celebration of the modernity of a great ancient poet, indissolubly linked to his hometown, Sulmona. [[Applause from the FI-PdL XII and PD Groups. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-09-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-881.ana.u77	Senator Ferrara Elena is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-09-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-881.ana.u78	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, Secretary-General, with reference to the text we are debating on the celebrations of the figure of Ovid on the anniversary of the two thousand years since his death, I would like to pay attention to the three aspects which I consider to be the most representative of the great Latin poet. The first aspect is the cultural importance of Ovid's work. He is deeply aware of the Latin language and the Greek language and for this reason reading Ovid today means drawing directly from one of the richest sources of ancient culture and, therefore, of Western culture. A fundamental writer of the Augustan era together with Virgilio and Orazio, Ovid is a poet at all round both because since his formation he decides to abandon the political cursus honorum in order to devote himself full time to the activity of writer is because, during his prolific literary activity, he experiences almost all poetic genres, always reaching unparalleled peaks. He debuted in the elegiac poetry with the Amores, then moved to the tragic theater with Medea and later to the epistolary genre with the Heroides; Overtakes the moral precept with Ars Amatoria and finally reaches artistic maturity with his masterpiece, the poem Le metamorphoses. And it is precisely on Metamorphosis that I would like to pay attention in the analysis of the second aspect related to the importance of Ovid, as a poet of cultural memory. Metaforfosi, in fact, are not simply an anthological work in the strict sense, but first of all a reworking of Greek knowledge in a Latin key. Ovid is a conscious re-elaborator of the past: he treasures the Greek Hellenistic culture, which in turn had stopped to reason on classical Greek culture, and weaves the praises of the past using mythology as a key to the story. The awareness is all the clearer if you think of the work as a learned and programmatic dialogue with the past by a present that was living at that time a modern myth. Ottaviano Augusto, the first emperor of Rome, after many years of fratricidal struggles that had redesigned the hegemonies in the Mediterranean, precisely in the years of maximum activity of the poet, realizes the dream of a universal peace that unites all the culture then known under the Roman aegis. In Metamorphosis we find the summa encyclopedica of Greek-Latin culture and the historical testimony of a golden age. But that's not all. The third aspect for which Ovid is a necessary reference figure for our culture is that he is poet of the future and with Metamorphosis he draws a cultural project that is destined to cross the centuries. He, in fact, first of all identifies a theme that is the basis of each of his stories: change. The change is for Ovid, and thanks to him also for us, a new philosophy of knowledge. Metamorphosis is understood as a methodological approach to research: the awareness that everything is destined to change, in its form, but not in its substance. This is the beating heart of the Ovidian work, and this is what makes him one of the most current ancient writers today. His teaching is all the stronger the more he moves away from historical contingency to reach the search for human nature. Ovidian characters in fact, even if they are often semi-gods, fauns and nymphs, are ultimately forged with a very deep humanity. Their changes are often painful and irreversible, but never unaware: this is the concept I want to deepen. They are always the result of a choice that Ovid places as an indispensable prerogative in his stories: knowing where we come from gives us the freedom to choose where we want to go, without necessarily choosing the best for us. This is a very important concept. To Ovid is sufficient, in fact, a conscious choice and it is awareness that allows us freedom. This aspect makes Metamorphosis is not so much a current work, but rather a timeless work. In this regard, we must greet with pleasure and encourage more initiatives such as the one promoted by RAI, which decided to transmit the integral reading of Metamorphosis, read and translated by Vittorio Sermonti, aired on Radio 3 every afternoon from July 10 to September 5 of this year. Ovid is the leading exponent of a literature that is the daughter of a culture born and developed in the great basin of the Mediterranean. The Roman civilization, albeit from an imperialist perspective, had since its first territorial conquests the intelligence to respect and treasure the cultures of the peoples it conquered, first of all the Greek people. Roman political union has been made possible for over a thousand years since the respect of Mediterranean cultures: this dialogue has led to the development of modern Western culture. The measure that we are discussing today, with the measures aimed at young scholars and the education sector (have already been listed), is fully in line with the direction desired by an agenda that we approved in 7th Commission (also approved by the Government), during the discussion of the Senate Act 2371, of which I was rapporteur, concerning intangible cultural heritage, which since 6 April this year is State law: No 44 of 2017. In the system we read at the first point a commitment to the Government to ensure continuous awareness, especially in school policies, for the concrete protection of the Latin and Greek languages, as a maximum expression of the cultural substance of Europe, brought to different parts of the world. Europe as a whole, in fact, recognizes in Greek and Latin civilizations the historical roots of its own world and the inexhaustible treasure of the common memory of the old continent. An important answer is given precisely by this bill and the Government must be thanked, because it is supporting it and carrying it forward. On the other hand, this bill is part of various provisions, not only those of a celebratory nature, but those of production and promotion of humanistic culture. Let's think, for example, of Legislative Decree No. 60 of 2017, following Law No. 107 of 2015, the aforementioned Law No. 44 of 2017, but also of the Convention of Farola, whose ratification we expect to be brought here as soon as possible, which brings to the attention above all the speech of memory and inheritance. We also hope that this bill will be finally approved as soon as possible in order to give reason for the design operation that is already in place and that has been remembered by colleagues and allow an operation that we all care about. I therefore thank those who promoted the bill, Senators Pezzopane and Pelino, colleagues speakers, Senator Fasiolo and Senator Marin, aware that this law is symbolically covered by a further meaning in the face of the adversities that specifically the territory from which the proposal comes has had to face in recent years. The valorization of these places, symbol of the life of Ovid, like the city of Sulmona that gave him birth, are precisely the strengthening of the cultural identity that from Ovid, poet of memory and philosopher of change, can draw. We can really draw great drive and trust in the future. The experiences that are promoted in the bill precisely for the youngest, I think are in this sense fundamental in order to rebuild within those territories the drive and the drive to seek, from their territory to a dimension of culture and civilization much more extended, going towards Europe and at international level. Then let the twins and these works come; let the search come. In fact, I remember that there are still unpublished materials. We have therefore spoken of Ovid as a connoisseur of the Greek-Roman language and culture, as a poet of cultural memory and a philosopher of change. I conclude by observing how at the basis of these aspects we must consider Ovid the son of a culture that is matrix of all cultures, that must not be annihilated in the consideration of a past culture, but nourished with the same nourishment with which Ovid nourished his characters: attention to man. [[Applause from the PD and FI-PdL Group XVII.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-09-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-881.ana.u79	I thank Senator Elena Ferrara. I also listened to Senator Pelino and I must say that I found their speeches very interesting. In fact, we are not used to talking often about culture here, so listening to these speeches I think is good for everyone. Among other things, the young people who are today our guests who come from Vigasio, in the province of Verona, the teachers and students of the Institute including Italo Montemezzi are lucky, to whom I welcome. Today we are on the subject: through Ovid, we are talking about school and your education. It is therefore a fine solicitation for the teachers who accompany you. Welcome and have a nice stay. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-09-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-881.ana.u80	Senator Bignami is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-09-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-881.ana.u81	Madam President, it is certainly commendable that the Republic is celebrating the anniversaries for the two thousand years since the death of Ovid, for the one hundred and fifty years since the death of Gioachino Rossini and so all the others. The resources allocated for the operation of the relevant sponsoring committees and for the financing of the projects assessed are derived from the expenditure chapters within the Ministry of Cultural Heritage and Activities and Tourism, already fed in a stable form with a special rule included in the budget law. Certainly, the commitment is not excessively burdensome for a country like Italy, which can be well numbered in comparative terms, at least compared to the rest of the European countries, such as the one with the greatest territorial density of cultural assets. In the case of the draft laws under consideration we are talking about a spending commitment of 700,000 euros total for the celebrations of Ovid, 700,000 euros total for the celebrations of Gioachino Rossini and 3.450,000 euros for the celebrations of da Vinci, Raffaello and Dante Alighieri. These are celebrations that certainly, in addition to the intrinsic cultural value attributed to them, will generate positive falls for the territories in which they will take place. My vote on the measures under consideration will therefore certainly be in favour, because culture, especially when strongly fueled by initiatives aimed at safeguarding the memory and the figure of illustrious characters, with particular attention to the programs that will be carried out, is always a positive factor of growth for our boys, men and women of tomorrow. However, I cannot fail to stigmatize the fact that for about 240,000 disabled students in Italian schools these initiatives will not be fully accessible due to the endemic shortage of teachers of support, this problem, which emerges with all its seriousness since the beginning of the school year. I therefore appeal to the Minister of Cultural Heritage and Activities and Tourism and to the Minister of Education, University and Research to ensure that the committees promoting the celebrations, when defining the projects eligible for funding, take due account of those who address, involve and encourage the participation of disabled students. Culture is a right of all, no one excluded, and it cannot and must not face obstacles, not even the lack of support teachers. Finally, but not least, I would like to make a comment. We are here to discuss, throughout the week, the Municipality of Sappada and the celebrations of Dante and Raffaello in an Italy of emergencies. In an emergency Italy, do we think about this? And yet, we have a security emergency, with the increase in rape and feminicide, now on the agenda. We need culture: we introduce culture of respect. We have the emergency of poverty, with the need, also here, for culture, for the culture of sharing. We have an emergency of democracy, and here too we need culture. Without forgetting that, one step away from the end of the parliamentary term, we still do not have a common text on the figure of the caregiver. I shall conclude by saying that if we want to talk about culture in this House, we must refer not only to the memory and history of its arts, but also to that of acceptance and inclusion. If we want our children to accept disabled people at school, we must educate them to always consider the last and to always think, first, about the helpless. Then yes, we will have the ruling class we want. Then we will really have who will be able to remove Italy from the pantanus in which it is located. [[Applause from Senator Bell.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-09-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-881.ana.u82	The general debate is closed. As the rapporteurs do not wish to speak in response, I call the representative of the Government.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-09-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-881.ana.u83	Madam President, as has been said by the senators who spoke before me, this is a rather special day, because we approve a measure that supports the Ovidian celebrations and it is a Thursday morning when we talk here, in the Senate of the Republic, about culture, remembering an eminent figure in our history and literature. Since there is also a high school, I intended to speak because, among the various important aspects that have been emphasized of the thought of Ovid (the most modern of the ancients, as Senator Pelino said, and the poet of memory, as Senator Elena Ferrara reminded us) there are two words on which I would like to reflect together with you. These are words that have been graffiti on a wall of Herculaneum, morieris Tomi, you will die at Tomi. Recent epigraphic studies have tried to interpret these two words: it was probably a transversal message of electoral type, but also a veiled threat, addressed to a citizen of Herculaneum, who, applying for a public office, had to consider being obsequient to the power, otherwise risked to end Ovid, you will die at Tomi. It is important to remember in this House, in the Italian Parliament, that those who aspire to represent the public must, on the one hand, avoid any attempt at undue pressure on his activity and, on the other hand, have as an example exceptional figures such as Ovid, who was not only a great poet, but also a person included in the life of his time: he belonged to the equestrian order, but never belonged to the laticlavium, wanting to remain free and not succub to a power that, in his time, was particularly permeable and invasive, that of Augustus. Rather he participated in the circle of Messalla Corvino and not in that of Mecenate and perhaps this intellectual independence - I say this to the boys who are present in the gallery - cost him the exile to Tomi, from whom he never returned and which makes him, among the greats of Latin literature, one of the greatest for moral uprightness and the ability to interlogate with power, always remaining consistent with his ideal principles. I am pleased that in the measure we are about to approve, if the House considers it, also scholarships are included to encourage our young people to deepen the thought of Ovid, a great literary man, but really great Roman citizen and therefore illustrious example to be remembered in this House to celebrate in the best way the bimillenary of his death. [[Applause from the PD and Aut groups (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT) - PSI-MAIE).]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-09-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-881.ana.u84	I would like to inform you that the Presidency - and I am in distribution - has received the opinions of the 1st and 5th standing Commission on the draft law under consideration and the amendments, which will be published in an annex to today's report. We shall now proceed to the vote on Rule 1. BIGNAMI (Misto-MovX). We call for the vote to be taken by simultaneous ballot by electronic means. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Article 1. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the examination of Article 2, on which amendments have been tabled, which are intended to be presented, on which I invite the rapporteurs and the representative of the Government to give their views.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-09-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-881.ana.u85	Madam President, I would ask the authors to withdraw Amendments 2.1, 2.2, 2.4, 2.5, 2.6, identical to 2.7, 2.8 and 2.9, otherwise I am against.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-09-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-881.ana.u86	Madam President, the Government gives its assent to the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-09-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-881.ana.u87	We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 2.1. BIGNAMI (Misto-MovX). We call for simultaneous ballots to be carried out by electronic means. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 2.1, tabled by Senators Petraglia and Bocchino. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 2.2, tabled by Senators Petraglia and Bocchino. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 2.4, tabled by Senators Petraglia and Bocchino. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 2.5, tabled by Senators Petraglia and Bocchino. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of Amendment 2.6, tabled by Senator Gotor, identical to Amendment 2.7, tabled by Senators Petraglia and Bocchino. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous vote on Amendment 2.8 tabled by Senators Petraglia and Bocchino. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 2.9, tabled by Senators Petraglia and Bocchino. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the vote on Rule 2.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-09-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-881.ana.u88	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-09-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-881.ana.u89	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-09-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-881.ana.u90	WOMAN (M5S). Madam President, I would ask you to have the card removed from the absent Senator Secretary's device. (Senator Secretary Sibilia removes the card from the absent colleague's device.) PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Good. I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Rule 2. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the examination of Article 3, on which amendments have been tabled, which are intended to be presented, on which I invite the rapporteurs and the representative of the Government to give their views.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-09-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-881.ana.u91	Madam President, I would like to call for the withdrawal of all the amendments from 3.1 to 3.18, with the exception of Amendment 3.100, on which the opinion is, of course, in favour. On Amendment 3.19, I would like to make a call for withdrawal or for it to be turned into an agenda.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-09-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-881.ana.u92	Senator Petraglia, do you accept the rapporteur's invitation? PETRAGLIA (Misto-SI-SEL). Yes, Madam President, I agree to turn the amendment into the G3.19 agenda.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-09-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-881.ana.u93	Madam President, I agree with what the rapporteur has said and I accept, on behalf of the Government, the G3.19 agenda.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-09-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-881.ana.u94	We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 3.1. BIGNAMI (Misto-MovX). We call for simultaneous ballots to be carried out by electronic means.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-09-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-881.ana.u95	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-09-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-881.ana.u96	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-09-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-881.ana.u97	WOMAN (M5S). Madam President, obviously few have accepted the previous invitation. I volunteer to move between the benches to remove the ballots of absent senators, if it becomes difficult for those sitting on the bench of the Presidency.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-09-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-881.ana.u98	I urge the Senator Secretary to proceed with the removal of the ballots of absent senators. (Senator Secretary Sibilia proceeds to remove the ballots of absent senators). I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether Senator Bignami's previous request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 3.1, tabled by Senators Petraglia and Bocchino. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 3.4, tabled by Senators Petraglia and Bocchino. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by a simultaneous vote on Amendment 3,100 tabled by the rapporteurs. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Amendment 3.5 tabled by Senators Petraglia and Bocchino. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Amendment 3.6 tabled by Senators Petraglia and Bocchino. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of Amendment 3.9, tabled by Senators Petraglia and Bocchino. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 3.11, tabled by Senators Petraglia and Bocchino. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 3.12, tabled by Senators Petraglia and Bocchino. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 3.13, tabled by Senators Petraglia and Bocchino. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 3.16 tabled by Senators Petraglia and Bocchino. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 3,18 tabled by Senators Petraglia and Bocchino. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Having been accepted by the Government, the G3.19 agenda will not be put to the vote. I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by a simultaneous vote on Article 3 in the amended text. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the examination of Article 4, on which amendments have been tabled, which I would ask the authors to explain.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-09-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-881.ana.u99	Madam President, Amendment 4.1 concerns cover-ups, which is a bit of a recurring issue in measures of this kind. Essentially, the coverage of this text is dependent on the funds allocated to institutions in the field of archives and libraries. It is, therefore, a round game inside the MIBACT. I understand, Madam President, Madam rapporteur, that there may be contrary opinions from the Budget Commission on this amendment, but I think it would also be right to give a signal from this House and all my colleagues that the coverage should be based on really additional funds and not just rounds all within the MIBACT. We will, of course, hear the rapporteur's opinion, but I would like to say right now that we are prepared to turn Amendment 4.1 into an agenda, perhaps by committing the government - I am thinking of the next Stability Act, for example - to re-integrate the necessary appropriations with truly additional resources. If there were this commitment from the Government and the rapporteur, we would certainly appreciate it by withdrawing the amendment and turning it into an agenda.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-09-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-881.ana.u100	Senator Bocchino, does this also apply to Amendment 4.2, which has the same characteristic? BOCCHINO (Misto-SI-SEL). Yes, ma'am.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-09-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-881.ana.u101	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-09-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-881.ana.u102	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-09-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-881.ana.u103	PELINO (FI-PdL XVII). Madam President, I withdraw Amendment 4.3, not because I did not believe in it because I amended it, but because it seemed to me to understand that, compared to our requests, the Government could not grant more than it has granted and therefore, as they say, "better than nothing." I am therefore obliged to withdraw it. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the rapporteurs and the representative of the Government to comment on the agenda.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-09-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-881.ana.u104	Madam President, I am in favour of acceptance.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-09-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-881.ana.u105	Madam President, the government accepts the agenda for amendments 4.1 and 4.2; this is also a requirement of the Commission. Within the limits of public finance, we will try to place adequate resources.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-09-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-881.ana.u106	Having been accepted by the Government, the G4.1 agenda will not be put to the vote. Amendment 4.3 has been withdrawn. I call on the rapporteurs and the representative of the Government to make their views known on the G4100 agenda.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-09-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-881.ana.u107	Madam President, the opinion on the adoption of the G4100 agenda, where it has been reworded, is in favour. A part of the text should be expunged which, if agreed, could become as follows: in the premises, after the words "considered that" I propose to maintain the part in which it is said that the measures of a different nature elaborated in the examination of the Chambers find financial cover through reductions in the authorization of expenditure within the same section, to eliminate the rest, until the words "the state of abandonment" and then to continue with: "it commits the Government to adopt compatible with the needs of public finance appropriate legislative initiatives, aimed at promoting investments for culture in general and, more specifically, to find additional resources within the framework of Law No 420 of 1997".
ParlaMint-IT_2017-09-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-881.ana.u108	I would like to summarise the rewording also for the benefit of Senator Montevecchi, who will have to accept or not accept the amendments proposed by the rapporteur, and for the benefit of his colleagues. After the premises (page 8 of the file), it remains a first paragraph, following the words "considered" that "the remaining part" is eliminated and finally, in the disposition part, the Government undertakes to adopt what is required "compatibly with the needs of public finance." It is clear to me what we are dealing with here. We therefore await the reflection of Senator Montevecchi.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-09-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-881.ana.u109	Madam President, since the objective of the agenda is to push the government to look for additional resources, I am prepared to "purify" the text of all the politically relevant parties, because that is what I am being asked to do, in the sense that I am being asked to remove political reflections within this agenda, beyond the technical correction. Well: if this means that the Government is committed to finding additional resources, without always going to fish in the usual sector, moving resources instead of putting new ones, I agree to clean up the agenda of all political reflections, which I believe are valid and on which I hope the Government reflects, beyond the fact that they will be expelled from the text.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-09-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-881.ana.u110	Does the Government accept the agenda G4100 (text 2)?
ParlaMint-IT_2017-09-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-881.ana.u111	By saying that the space on the agenda is not the space for political reflection and since the text has been purified from these considerations, we accept the agenda so reworded.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-09-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-881.ana.u112	Having been accepted by the Government, the agenda G4100 (text 2) will not be put to the vote. We shall now proceed to the vote on Rule 4. BIGNAMI (Misto-MovX). We call for the vote to be taken by simultaneous ballot by electronic means. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Rule 4. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the vote on Rule 5. BIGNAMI (Misto-MovX). We call for the vote to be taken by simultaneous ballot by electronic means. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Rule 5. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B).
ParlaMint-IT_2017-09-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-881.ana.u113	We shall now proceed to the final vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-09-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-881.ana.u114	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-09-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-881.ana.u115	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-09-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-881.ana.u116	DAVICO (FL (Id-PL, PLI)). Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, the Federation of Freedom Group's consideration of this initiative can only be positive. The celebrations for the two thousand years since the death of Ovid take place in this House in the most appropriate way: by issuing legislation that allows the realization of projects aimed at promoting, researching, protecting and spreading the knowledge of life, work and places related to the figure of the Abruzzo poet. This task belongs to the state legislature, because the specific cultural initiatives worthy of funding, to be assumed within the scope of the promotion of cultural, historical, artistic and literary national heritage, such as the one contained in the proposal that we are going to vote on, must be guaranteed exclusively by state law. More generally, the proposal contained in the text concerns a common good par excellence, knowledge. It is a benefit to everyone, a positive sum game, because it can be fed together without the consumption of a single one excluding another partner from enjoyment. Our commitment must aim to ensure not only the information, the correct and comprehensive representation of the facts, life and works of Ovid, but also an even more preferable objective, because it is higher: to provide to anyone, in particular to students, the possibility of possessing a set of organic information, organized and elaborated in order to learn and disseminate the understanding and experience deriving from the knowledge of the Ovidian culture. We therefore welcome the measure, with particular praise for the part in which it aims to ensure support for educational and cultural activities in order to promote, in Italy and abroad, awareness of the importance of the life and work of Ovid. Similarly virtuous is the path taken to achieve the objective, i.e. the road of collaboration with public and private bodies, for the implementation of educational and cultural activities. The use of forms of public-private partnership is desirable, not only because it responds to the reduction of investment expenditure, to the optimization of operating costs, to the recognition of an active role of the private entity in cultural enterprise, as well as to the achievement of objectives of effectiveness, efficiency and transparency, but above all because this appears to us the main way to safeguard in general the cultural sector, in terms of organisational solutions able to promote proper administration and promotion of the sector itself. We conclude with the appreciation of a further forecast contained in the norm. We refer to the fact that the promoter committee is composed not only of apical offices of the Executive itself, as well as of a personality of clear fame of Latin culture and literature, experts of the life and works of Ovid, but also of a committee of young scholars of the Ovidian work, under the age of twenty-five years, called the Committee of the Fifty Ovidians. The ambitious objective, which aims to achieve important and concrete objectives, such as the promotion of knowledge, in Italy and abroad, of the life and work of Ovid, the recovery, restoration and reorganization of the historical and artistic material of Ovidiano, the restoration of buildings and the reorganization of the places related to his life and his work, the establishment of a Ovidian literary park and the promotion of research in the matter of Ovidian studies, also through the publication of new materials and the provision of scholarships aimed at students, is shared by us. That is why I declare the Federation of Freedom Group's vote in favour of this measure.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-09-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-881.ana.u117	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-09-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-881.ana.u118	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-09-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-881.ana.u119	Mr Barani (ALA-SCLP). Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, discussing this draft law gives us the opportunity to approve a very good initiative by Senators Pelino and Pezzopane, who with Ovid certainly share their birthdays, but at the same time offers us the opportunity to celebrate it two thousand years after its disappearance and to take inspiration from his extraordinary life and from his enlightening works to take the opportunity to reflect on various reflections. The legislative initiative on such an important commemoration has become necessary to make sure that everyone can find how the poet's genius in our school classes, those we, those of our fathers, our children (and hopefully different for our grandchildren) have been sometimes marginalized. Ovid, in fact, was too often "alternated" because far from the classic composure of his times. Perhaps the teachers or teachers know him little, so it is difficult to bring to schools a little or poorly known author. Two thousand years later we neglect the one who was, as well as a poet of immense greatness, a revolutionary, an anti-conformist, a forerunner. Two thousand years later we tend not to highlight the deeds, as well as poetry, of one of the greatest Italians; a man who two thousand years ago wrote the Metamorphosis, abnormal text and amazing literary creation; an epic poem in which Ovid collected all the human scibile and in which, however, he did not silence the truths of a social reality that he himself lived out of line. Two thousand years later this still seems to disturb us and, as unfortunately often happened, it has led to exile. In the work the Metamorphosis (in my opinion already the title could not be more revolutionary) Ovid encloses all the ugliness and beauties of the paths of life. In it Ovid dissects and does not hide the aspects of life as love as such and in all its forms (jealousy, envy, evil, lack of meritocracy, tyranny) and tells that if a mortal dares to compete with a god in singing, in poetry, in art he will suffer a punishment, no matter how good he is or how much better than the god himself. It's like it's in our day. Our country sometimes sins with the citizens who give it more lustre. In fact, in life, Ovid was very hindered: he certainly had a life outside the box, he was pointed out for things for which still today someone in the Belpaese would be upset: this is a lesson of the fact that it is not the years but the minds that lead to social evolution. He led a life over the lines with different wives and many lovers (many, many, of course also in the emperor's family is said) and had different contrasts with the politics of the time that brought him into exile, so they turned him away denying him the possibility to enrich with his thought and his reasons the people all. We did this with Dante, who is considered only the father of the Italian language: he too, contrasted for his life closely linked to the events of politics, was exiled and never saw his homeland again. Among other things, I have the honour to live in the land of Lunigiana that has hosted him in exile for two long years and where he wrote the wonderful songs of Purgatory, describing the landscape of that beautiful land. We did so with Machiavelli who, driven by the possibility of saving himself and pleasing those who could pardon him from his exile, wrote precisely in exile his greatest work, The Prince. Well, we did it for Bettino Craxi, the last Italian statesman from whom the country took the best, with whom Italy reached the top of the most industrialized countries, the dimension that politics should be non-conformist; yet the Belpaese, after taking the best that he could give, let him die in exile. Everyone knows that this was one of the few attempts to really change the political system and our country, but very few say so, even after years, and therefore try to manipulate history. In fact, many, while thinking these same things, do not tell you, because in the eyes of the public opinion Craxi is often remembered only for its judicial aspects and still today countering a stereotype is inconvenient. I believe that today we are investing more than well in our work in the Assembly to ensure that the commemoration of Publio Ovidio Nasone becomes law, because I firmly believe that this country, our Italy, must necessarily invest and ensure that cultural instruments become a pregnant part of our society. Of course, I have to tell the government that it is necessary to "grow old" our teachers, introducing young teachers into the school. The vision of things and diversity must never be overshadowed by sterile preconceptions, but must be illuminated, although not shared, so that the country learns to have an objective analysis as well as mass. The populisms do nothing but bring our best men into exile. In this, everyone must play their part: politics, which must always think about the good of the country, without throwing false baits at the citizens, bringing them to know many slogans and few facts; information, which for example cannot continue to have the presumption to lead the trials in the newspapers, demolishing the lives of people that our Constitution wants innocent up to the third degree of judgment, exiling them to not be able to continue their lives because branded by a public opinion that is training not to make discounts not to not have indulgence, indeed. But our teachers, our school, our school programmes, both public and private, have to do the most important part, because the Constitution says so. That is why I do not understand the meaning of the amendments tabled and against which our Group has strongly voted, because it is at school that our approach to life, culture and the community is born and growing and therefore we need to give our students all the means to be able to choose who they are. That is why, Mr President, I would like to conclude by saying that as I am going to the grave of Ovid, as I was in Ravenna at Dante's grave, and as I think it is right to go to Machiavelli's grave and all our great exiles, it is perhaps necessary that the rapporteurs also spread some ashes in their heads and go to Hammamet to the grave of Bettino Craxi. [[Applause from Senator Eva Longo.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-09-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-881.ana.u120	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-09-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-881.ana.u121	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-09-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-881.ana.u122	Mr Gotor (Art.1-MDP). Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, on behalf of Article 1 - Democratic and Progressive Movement, I express our consent to the bill establishing the Ovidian year and the celebrations of the anniversary of the two thousand years after the death of Ovid, as has been recalled, the immortal author of the Metamorphosis, an extraordinary collection of myths of transformation: men who become animals, plants, statues, sunflowers, spiders, bats, perhaps also (I don't remember) right-wing men who become left-wing and left-wing men who become right-wing. It seems particularly significant to me to do so today. This is in fact the day when the Senate is presented to the Commission a new electoral law, the Rosatellum or the Transformellum that you say you want, that, in case it was approved, would institutionalize the transformation by completing the Italian metamorphosis. In the name of the venerable Ovid we celebrate we will oppose, as we once said, but we will do so in Parliament and in the country. Today we support this bill dedicated to him, which plans to make known to students the work of Ovid and a program of national and international cultural events that promote the proper valorization of the Ovidian places, but with the spirit that I wanted to share with the Assembly. [[Applause from the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and ……]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-09-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-881.ana.u123	We can say, Senator Gotor, that you've taken it far in Ovid's assessment.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-09-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-881.ana.u124	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-09-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-881.ana.u125	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-09-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-881.ana.u126	Conte (AP-CpE-NCD). Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, the measure we are about to vote on is the result of intensive and fruitful work carried out by the 7th Commission. I remember that we started from two drawings of law, of Abruzzo origins, so to speak, later unified to pursue a common objective: to spread knowledge and deepen the study of the works of Ovid. With this measure we imagine taking a series of actions and initiatives, both public and private, as part of a programme of cultural events, national and international, that also promote the enhancement of the Ovidian places. Such projects seem most appropriate, since the literary work of Publio Ovidio Nasone has deeply marked culture and history from the Roman era to the present day. Definitely recognized as one of the greatest Latin poets, Ovid is still studied in the most prestigious universities in the world for modernity and topicality of language and content. This is precisely for an opera characterized by sincere passion and without stylistic constraints, which immediately made it a revolutionary and innovative poet. The measure aims to exploit the anniversary of the two thousand years since the death of the great poet to celebrate his figure and works, contributing to the maximum international diffusion of the work and the knowledge related to it. Article 2 lists the measures to be taken. The planned projects are to be implemented both in 2017, Ovidian year, and in 2018 and include support for educational-training and cultural activities; the restoration and restoration of the historical and artistic material of Ovidiano and the places related to his life and his work, in Sulmona or in the Peligna Valley; the establishment of an Ovidian literary park, as a tourist-cultural itinerary and a museum dedicated to Ovidio, in the city of birth; finally, an institutional twinning between the latter and the city of Rome, where he stayed for a long time, and the promotion of research in the matter of Ovidian studies, also through the publication of new materials and the provision of scholarships aimed at university students and secondary schools of second degree. It is expected that these activities will have to be coordinated by a promoting committee, in office until the end of 2018, which includes representatives of the Government, the Abruzzo Region and the city of Sulmona, as well as expert personalities of the matter. The action of the Promoter Committee will be inspired and monitored by a dedicated Scientific Committee. To these two bodies is added, with advisory function, a committee of young people under twenty-five, scholars of the Ovidian work, called the Committee of fifty Ovidians. All the activities of the bill are financed with an extraordinary contribution of 350,000 euros for each of the years 2017 and 2018. Ovid is still today one of the greatest writers of all time, with its inexhaustible intellectual vitality. The Middle Ages considered him not inferior to Virgilio and also had considerable influence on all the Italian humanistic poetry and on the learned style and the charms of the French-Dutch philologists. It is therefore important that Italy remembers this great poetic writer and composer who gave lustre to the Peninsula around the world. The history of a people also passes from the protection and valorization of its own culture that, with the present provision, is sought to protect, giving to posterity the prestigious figure of the Sulmonese author. We are sure that the projects will present wide and qualified levels of collaboration between institutions, schools and private individuals, at national and international level, also enhancing individual and autonomous proposals at local level or in individual cities. A virtuous system will be created, bringing together the optimisation of resources, the quality of proposals, the coordination of timetables and promotion activities at national and international level. The objectives of promotion, research, preservation and knowledge of life, work and places related to the figure of Ovid can be achieved with interventions to develop and strengthen existing and active structures and institutions on the places of Ovid. In conclusion, a country that remembers its past can aspire to become or confirm itself as a guide of protection and historical-literary celebration at an international level. A country that properly values the work of its most authoritative singers, founders of that classical culture at the base of our Italian soul, can find the right way to form the new generations and, therefore, its future. The measure before us contains the means to proceed in those directions. For this reason, I am voting in favour of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-09-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-881.ana.u127	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-09-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-881.ana.u128	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-09-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-881.ana.u129	BOCCHINO (Misto-SI-SEL). Madam President, when we have to make explanations of vote on such measures, I will tell you that we are always in a bit of trouble. On the one hand, we recognize the very high value that such a measure represents: the promotion of culture and of the Ovidian one in particular, in a territory that needs to start again, to grow and also to be reborn. And what, if not the cultural channels, are the best tools to be able to restart a territory? This type of approach sees us extremely favorable and we therefore welcome initiatives that celebrate illustrious historical personalities with initiatives that need to be properly funded. On the other hand, however, there are still problems about the way in which it is proposed to achieve all this. I would particularly like to look at three aspects of this measure which certainly need to be improved. The issue of funding has already been addressed in the examination of the amendments. We have seen that the Government has committed itself to finding a new cover, and we are very happy about that. However, we will monitor the Government's commitment and we will take care, in the forthcoming stability law, to make specific proposals also on the financing and coverage of the draft law under discussion, as well as those on Rossini and the centenaries of Leonardo, Dante and Raffaello, which we are preparing to discuss in this House and which suffer from the same problem. The coverage of institutions in the archives and libraries sector is particularly hateful. I remember that we, at the beginning of this legislature, fought a battle for the survival of state archives and libraries; there was also an appeal signed by many people, including scholars and intellectuals - I remember Eco, Montanari, Magris - to try to save these institutions. It seems that we have succeeded during the parliamentary term, but unfortunately, once saved, we start using them again as a reservoir to drain resources into other projects, even if it is worthy. This is not good, and it is particularly hateful to see that we draw on resources after we have found them laboriously to safeguard institutions pertaining to the field of archives and libraries, which - needless to say - represent our essence, the preservation of our past and our culture. There is another aspect that we must note and which presents some critical issues: the setting up of the committee referred to in Article 3 of the measure under discussion. This committee is even chaired by the President of the Council and there are also Ministers: therefore the Government is heavily involved in the planning of the Ovidian celebrations. This, in our opinion, is not healthy because it lends itself to being used distortedly. We would have preferred a much more slender committee in which only local personalities or scholars participated. Once again, there is also confusion between consultative bodies and executive bodies in this committee: there is a scientific committee, but some of its members are also members of the promoter committee. In fact, it would be healthier to clearly separate the consultative and proactive phase from the executive phase, so that there can be an even more effective balance and monitoring between these two bodies, which should be independent and which protect a more effective use of public money. This isn't there. In this respect we had tabled amendments to Article 3, but they were not accepted. We regret this, because this is not the best way to manage cultural initiatives. The subject of monitoring and control also remains open. The promoter committee publishes the final report on its institutional site, but there is no real control over how money is spent; there are no acts that can follow the report and thus allow the recovery of any structures. I hope so, but I am sure that will not be the case. Furthermore, there is no real mechanism of control and sanction that provides for the correction of these forms. This mechanism is provided for in Law No 420 of 1997. The proposal, from this point of view, is therefore weak and too top-down. Madam President, I would also like to mention the problem of strategy. Let us welcome the proposal for an Ovidian celebration in the territory of Abruzzo. In our country, however, there is no real territorial recovery strategy. Let us not hide, in fact, that the theme also involves the recovery of territories through cultural activities. Why do we have to reduce ourselves in the last phase of the legislature to enact a localistic measure relating to a specific region? The country has a problem of restart, a problem of underdevelopment in some regions and, in particular, in the South. So why not tackle this issue, which is strategic from a more general point of view? A cultural intervention plan should be drawn up, using not necessarily anniversaries, but also other forms of cultural intervention. It would be necessary to have a real plan of repartition of the most disadvantaged regions of the country through cultural interventions. This has not been done. We have not heard from the Ministry a real strategy in this regard and we are again reducing ourselves to examining local and local measures, in stages of the legislature that would lend themselves to other interpretations. We cannot fail to recognise the importance of these measures, but in order to clear the field of criticism that can be advanced, it would be necessary to launch a real strategy for the recovery of the territories through cultural interventions. Madam President, I have thus expressed the difficulty of our position in judging this and other speeches, but recognizing the importance of the event, the recurrence and the possible repercussions on the territory, we will not fail to vote in favour of the measure. However, I believe that another of the problems that should be addressed relates to the situation in Abruzzo in the aftermath of these events. We know, for example, about the Ovidian museum. What will happen to the structures that will be realized on the occasion of the bimillenary, once the lights will turn off on this event? What will remain in those territories and how will they exploit the infrastructure and initiatives related to the event? The law does not solve this problem, because the allocation is only for two years, but in a global strategy that, in our view, should actually exist, it will have to be addressed and resolved. [[Applause from the Misso-SI-SEL Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-09-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-881.ana.u130	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-09-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-881.ana.u131	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-09-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-881.ana.u132	BLUNDO (M5S). Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, when we talk about Publius Ovidus Nasone, we refer to a brilliant poet, endowed with a great improvisation, never cast in his verses, whatever the motivations and the souls that inspired them: love, personal, mythological. His works, two thousand years after his death, are now recognized by all as a patrimony of humanity and this Assembly could not be indifferent to this important anniversary: being so would have meant not recognizing his original and extraordinary poetic vein. The extreme ease of composition of which Ovid was endowed never defeated in the banal verse, but instead was his strength, his distinctive character, the authentic and the high demonstration of that immediate expression of the feeling that is poetry. His work goes far beyond the Metamorphosis mentioned today in the Assembly. If the intention is to enhance, make known to all and pass on to young people our heritage and our cultural identity, initiatives like this come well in the Assembly, in which we discuss culture, literature and literary works, which are the history of our country. It would be desirable to have more comprehensive legislation, as was requested on the approved agenda, at the first signature of my colleague, Mr Montevecchi. Ovid was born in Sulmona and for us Abruzzo is a pride, an indispensable reference point. On the subject, one cannot fail to point out that the measure under consideration in the Commission has had public education, cultural goods which are not very rapid, especially because the debate has developed on four different unified texts. Among the positive aspects there is certainly a desire to promote the Ovidian work at both national and international level. There are, therefore, not only the intention to celebrate an anniversary, precisely that of the two thousand years after his death, and the contextual will to enhance his work, but also the intention to spread the Ovidian thought in schools. This creates the conditions for Ovid's message to be projected into the future and become a formative element for our children, citizens of the future. Art, when it's true, goes beyond all time. Therefore it is an immense wealth that will be made available to our young people. It is a commendable approach that is unequivocally found in the firm intention to develop a serious research activity around the work of the great poet from Abruzzo, aimed above all at the collection of materials still unpublished. The draft law under consideration provides for a financial coverage of 350,000 euros for each of the years 2017 and 2018 and defines the objectives that must be pursued in the total sharing by the promoter committee and the scientific committee: the development of initiatives aimed at supporting the teaching-training activities to promote the Ovidian work; the recovery, restoration and reorganization of the historical and artistic material of the work of Ovidio, with the identification in the city of Sulmona of a suitable place to host the museum; the restoration of the places linked to his life and his work, located both in the city of Sulmona, and in the Peligna Valley; the establishment of an Ovidian literary park as a tourist-cultural itinerary; the realization of a twinning between the city of Sulmona and the city of Rome, the place of stay of Ovidio, and the continuation of the twinning between the city of Sulmona and the city of Constance, in Romania, place of his exile; the promotion of research in the matter of Ovidian studies, through the provision of scholarships addressed to students and secondary schools of second degree. This is an example of how our artists, poets and writers can become flyers for high-quality tourism. These objectives are certainly acceptable and I hope that their achievement will have important economic, employment and tourist-cultural repercussions, for the Aquilan Province and the entire Abruzzo Region. However, we do not understand the reason why in the promoting committee, in addition to the shared participation of the mayor of Sulmona, we must give space to the President of the Abruzzo Region and to two parliamentarians of the territory. In this way, ladies and gentlemen, there is a real risk of forgetting the good intentions of the draft law that I have stated, by making them go into the background, and of helping to fuel the feeling, which is now widespread, that politics seeks in every way to put the hat on every project. This is why many people can feel annoyance and consider these measures useless and instrumental, even in the face of the concrete and binding problems that citizens live every day. Therefore, my Group will vote to abstain on the measure, although we are pleased that during the examination in 7th Commission an amendment was approved at my first signature by which, to guarantee the values of transparency and advertising, always defended by the 5 Star Movement, it is expected that the promoting committee, by 31 December 2018, will publish on its institutional website, which will have to be implemented, the final report together with the acts and the statement on the use of the assigned contributions. We must always give citizens an account of how they use their money.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-09-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-881.ana.u133	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-09-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-881.ana.u134	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-09-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-881.ana.u135	PELINO (FI-PdL XVII). Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I will make a very brief explanation of vote on behalf of the Forza Italia Group in favour of this bill, which intends to celebrate the figure and grandeur of the literary work of Publio Ovidio Nasone. His intelligence and excellent poetic genius have deeply marked culture and history, from the Roman era to the present day. It is an extraordinary and unrepeatable opportunity to remind Italy and the whole world of the poetic qualities of Ovid, two thousand years after his death, as a patrimony of humanity. With the hope that the iter will proceed quickly to the Chamber and that it will become a text with a not excessive funding, but useful to assist the many initiatives already put in place in the local headquarters by the Municipality of Sulmona, the Aquilan Province and the entire Abruzzo Region, to celebrate the modernity of this ancient poet, the vote of the Group of Forza Italia will be favorable. [[Applause from the FI-PdL XVII Group and the Senators Fabbri and Pezzopane.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-09-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-881.ana.u136	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-09-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-881.ana.u137	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-09-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-881.ana.u138	Mr Pezzopane (PD). Madam President, honourable representative of the Government, rapporteur and colleagues, the Democratic Party very much welcomes and supports a bill that we strongly wanted, presented in April 2016. I am the first signatory, but I have the high honour of having with me to sign this bill President Napolitano, Sergio Zavoli, an important historian like Senator Corsini and many other colleagues. This has meant that the bill at our examination has been included in the debate on the Ovidian year with strong authority, to make everyone understand that we are not giving a gift or an obolo to a community, that perhaps organizes some festive initiative, but we are in a path that the Government has put on the field and that it puts in motion processes of high cultural value. It is no coincidence that yesterday we passed the bill of delegation on live performance and it is no coincidence that, as it is said in this Assembly, that finally in this legislature we have returned to reinvest in culture and to a financial commitment that goes beyond two billion, with the law on cinema and the other measures that well President Di Giorgi remembered during the debate on the bill of delegation. Therefore, the occasion of the bimillenary should not be considered as an initiative in the air or a game, but as an important cultural process that looks to the territories as places where a special work on culture can give a return, within an overall project that maybe also helps to promote tourism on the basis of the high cultural value of a past that speaks to the future. The occasion of the bimillenary has moved so much energy from intellectuals, students and other operators. Men and women who, in the name of Ovid, want to engage in an ambitious cultural project. With the approval of the bill on our examination it is as if the Senate - I say this with a little irony - carried out a symbolic act, aimed at lifting that decree by which, in the year 8 A.D., the Emperor Augustus elected the poet to Tomis, on the Black Sea. Actually Augustus, when he decided to send away from Rome the great Ovid violated some rules. The relegation, in fact, according to Roman law, was to be imposed following a public trial and had to be ratified by the Senate, but this did not happen. The dictator emperor decided on his own: Ovid leaves Rome and never goes back. Today, with the approval of this bill, though symbolically, we officially return the poet, singer of love, here in Rome, here in Italy, to the whole field and in all title. The places of Ovid, in the land of Ovid, are important. Remember that there is the temple of Hercules Curino, there is the fonts amoris, there are the remains of the villa of Ovid. There is a beautiful mountain, a Peligna basin, with Sulmona in the center and the mountains making crowns. There is the Morronese Badia and, just climbing on that road to the Maranes, you reach Fonte d'amore, the fountain celebrated by Ovid. In the shade of those trees resound the Ovidian verses, taken from Tristia, which were previously remembered: "Sulmo mihi patria est, gelidis uberrimus undis, milia qui novies distat ab Urbe decem"; My homeland is Sulmona, very rich in cold waters, which is nine times ten miles from Rome. Come back Rome. 2017, with this bill, is declared Ovidian year. I remembered those places of Sulmona because it was in those places for weeks that a criminal fire broke out and in those places the most positive forces were challenged. And it is always in Sulmona that in December he had to remember with pain, in the presence of the high offices of the State, the death of the young Fabrizia Di Lorenzo, hit by a terrorist act in Berlin. I quote this because I want to make it clear that with this important act we give that land a sign of quality and value, a sort of opportunity. The celebrations have already begun, the wait for this law was long and now we respond with the facts. The resources are important and although we would have wanted more, we do not remember such a high financial commitment in recent times. For this I would like to thank Minister Franceschini, Undersecretary Cesaro, Undersecretary Bianchi, who greeted President Marcucci, Senator Fasiolo and Senator Elena Ferrara, who fought for this bill, and many others. The celebrations have begun and with this bill they can have a strong support. I heard some of my colleagues concerned about the controls, but what could be more authoritative in the controls of the Court of Auditors and the Public Prosecutor of the Republic? Why, in the act of formulating an advanced law, which gives the territories so many opportunities, must we immediately criminalize those territories? If there are problems, the competent authorities will deal with them, we are now doing our job, which is certainly not to think that those resources can be misguided, but rather to give positive means to ensure that those resources, as we have done, give real possibilities. In the bill we think of the young Ovidians. This was part of my proposal and I believe in it a lot. With certainmen every year hundreds of youngsters engage in Ovid's studies. Those guys we thought about, and for those guys, we had a specific standard. Ovid said: "We praise ancient times, but we know how to move in our own. This is the message we give to those young people: while we praise the past times, we want to give them the tools to move in our times. [[Applause from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-09-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-881.ana.u139	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-09-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-881.ana.u140	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-09-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-881.ana.u141	BIGNAMI (Misto-MovX). We call for the vote to be taken by simultaneous ballot by electronic means.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-09-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-881.ana.u142	I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I refer to the nominal vote by simultaneous ballot of the unified text of the draft law no. 2304 and 2355, in the amended text, with the following title: The establishment of the Ovidian year and celebration of the anniversary of the two thousand years since the death of Ovid. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). [[Applause from the PD and FI-PdL XVII groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-09-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-881.ana.u143	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-09-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-881.ana.u144	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-09-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-881.ana.u145	DE BIASI (PD). Madam President, I would like to point out that I was unable to take part in the final vote, but my vote would have been in favour. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. The Presidency takes note of this.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-09-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-881.ana.u146	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-09-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-881.ana.u147	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-09-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-881.ana.u148	Mr Russo (PD). Madam President, I would like to put to the House the possibility of starting the examination of the next measure on Tuesday, because the time available to us would not allow us to exhaust it and considering that it deserves to be dealt with without interruption.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-09-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-881.ana.u149	Without comment, the request, which I share, is accepted.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-09-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-881.ana.u150	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-09-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-881.ana.u151	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-09-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-881.ana.u152	MANDELLI (FI-PdL XVII). Madam President, I would like to speak briefly to ask, through you, for the discussion of motion 1-00724 tabled on 2 February last, and the reply to question 3-03974, recently tabled, both at my first signature, on the subject of the European Medicines Agency (EMA). As you know, this very week will decide on the allocation of the headquarters of this Agency, an important fact for Italy not only in terms of prestige, but also from the economic point of view. Milan was chosen in the rose because, in my opinion, it has important characteristics: first of all the logistics, second the structure because, as you know, the Lombardy Region has made available the palace where the EMA could be located in free form, at least for the first year. Then, since there is a great will of the country and also an interest that this agency can come to Italy, I would like to urge that my motion be called into question in order to be able to make a parliamentary contribution to those who, then, must defend our candidacy in Europe, also having the support of a motion voted by Parliament. I hope, therefore, that the motion at my first signature will find a rapid timetable precisely so that the Premier, the Ministers and those who will be elected to defend the candidacy can be strong in a parliamentary decision. I remember the time: at the end of the month we will have the skimming from the 19 seats proposed; then, from 20 October to 20 November the vote. To this end, an interparliamentary group has also been set up with the aim of flanking the Government in this important battle. I therefore hope that the motion will be scheduled because a vote in favour could be of great help in demonstrating the will of the Italian Parliament. [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-09-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-881.ana.u153	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-09-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-881.ana.u154	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-09-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-881.ana.u155	BIGNAMI (Misto-MovX). Madam President, on 14 September I put a question, Act 4-08057, to find out how many disabled pupils were present in Italian schools of every order and grade, how many hours of support they needed and how many of them were covered by support teachers. These data were requested by Province and Region. The request was submitted in 2014 and 2015; the response was always partial: it would appear that the actual support time allocated to each individual student, according to the Undersecretary, cannot be detected centrally. There is therefore a void, certainly fillable, in the procedures for the collection of data by the Ministry. According to the MIUR this year, there are more than 234,000 disabled pupils, many of whom (one out of three) will not have a teacher of role support, at the expense of the continuity of teaching provided by law, thus losing a school and emotional point of reference every year. Disabled students have the right to education like everyone else. A decision of the Constitutional Court (No 275 of 2016) states: It is the guarantee of the incompressible rights that affect the budget, and not the balance of this to condition the due payment. I will continue to remember this bug here until I have an answer that will allow me to count on the calculation of efficiency. I have asked this question every year and every year I have been given unnecessary data because the data is used to make calculations. I conclude with a concern about the meaning of the word "continuity": when I tabled the amendment on the continuity of teaching and made it a battle that then led to a victory, I did not mean the continuity of the bad ways; I meant the continuity of the professional figures. [[Applause from Senators Bencini and Orellana.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-09-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-881.ana.u156	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-09-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-881.ana.u157	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-09-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-881.ana.u158	GIROTTO (M5S). Madam President, I am speaking above all to the Italians, as well as to my colleagues, saying to everyone that we are miraculously alive: we are literally alive by miracle, and that is not a way of saying it. In 1983, the alarm started from a Soviet base that five missiles with nuclear warheads had left the United States and were heading to Russia to strike it. Now, if there had been any official, any military, this story would have ended in the worst way with the nuclear holocaust because the military would simply have warned the Kremlin - in 1983 relations between the USA and Russia were bad - and the Kremlin would have given the order for the launch of counter missiles to the United States and would have been the nuclear holocaust. Instead, this military, incredibly and miraculously, realized that it was a machine error at the moment ununderstandable. It was only later discovered that a rare conjunction between the earth and the sun had deceived the satellite. This soldier understood that it was a machine error and took responsibility not to warn the Kremlin, literally saving the planet from the nuclear holocaust. I am talking about this because yesterday the ratification of a treaty began, voted in July of this year by 122 countries at the United Nations, which Italy did not vote. Its ratification has therefore begun and, for the time being, it has been ratified by three States, including Vatican City. Once again it is shown that the Pope is a figure who is doing more than all the world politics put together. Let us remember, among other things, that the Hague Court of Justice has ruled the illegality of atomic weapons. The Treaty I am talking about is about the dismantling of nuclear weapons and the necessary infrastructure. As I said, Italy did not sign it and did not ratify it: perhaps because we have an extremely servile attitude towards the United States of America? We have voted here in the Senate on a motion different from the one we have tabled and very weak from the point of view of our commitment to the dismantling of nuclear weapons. I would like to point out that, very cynically, from an economic point of view, maintaining, maintaining and updating nuclear weapon systems is so costly that if these resources were used to combat hunger in the world, it could be overcome. The dismantling will cost a great deal and we Italians are technological leaders in this sector, because we are dismantling our nuclear power stations. In fact, we will pay EUR 14 billion to dismantle our four nuclear power stations and we are already paying them in the electricity bill. Nuclear power must become a business only for its dismantling. [[The microphone is automatically switched off.]] I would ask that we conclude the speech, Madam President. We could sell our know-how and technology and then acquire an economic utility to dismantle atomic weapons, which must be dismantled. I therefore call on the Government and the majority to sign and ratify the Treaty on the dismantling of nuclear weapons. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator Girotto, I apologize for disabling the microphone, but I didn't realize you were running out of time.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-09-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-881.ana.u159	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-09-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-881.ana.u160	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-09-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-881.ana.u161	ROMANI Maurizio (Misto-Idv). Madam President, today is September 21st, World Alzheimer's Day. This is a very important opportunity to reflect on a reality that is in Italy affects more than 600,000 patients, destined to increase, also because our country is the longest-lived in Europe, with almost 14 million over 60 years old. It is a pathology for which there are still no definitive cures and which reverberates, among other things, its dark reflections not only on the sick, but also on those who are close to him, like very few other diseases. In fact, it spreads sensations such as depression, impotence and despair. Alzheimer's is a very personalized disease: there are those who remain in silence and there are those who instead spur on their interlocutors, very often imaginary, using nurses, caregivers or family members from time to time as chosen recipients of these their spree. Everyone has his own delusion and for everyone there is a sort of return to childhood. After all, Alzheimer's disease is nothing more than a form of dementia, named after the German neurologist, who in 1907 was the first to describe its characteristics. As time passes, the mental gaps caused by this disease become more and more serious, up to having an interference with daily activities. At least 20 percent of dementia cases are classified as Alzheimer's disease. Unlike common thinking, Alzheimer's not only affects patients of very old age, but can also occur before the age of 65. The worst time for managing a patient with Alzheimer's goes from manifesting symptoms to eight or ten years later, when the disease progresses inexorably. The only thing you can do right now is give support and support to both family members and patients. This is why national awareness campaigns take place on this day in about 60 residences, especially to highlight an important role, that of caregivers. [[Applause from Senator Bignami]] Drawing inspiration from the question that gives name to the campaign ('What if the people you love disappear?') and that draws attention to the devastating effects of the disease, the different communication initiatives will emphasize the importance of the affection of family members. So it is here that the practical and emotional support of the sick is important, both from family members and caregivers, who are very important. Above all, it is important to treat with love a person who screams in your face, who doesn't recognize you, who doesn't stand still or who stands still with a lucid look in the void and who is no longer the good or good mom or dad, grandmother or grandfather, wife or husband. And all this for years, knowing that you can only get worse, stay like this for other months, and then get worse again. Here are the alternating moments of relief with moments of guilt, when they leave in custody with others in health residences. Here, on this day I would like to remind all of us of the importance of carrying out a bill for the recognition of the figure of caregivers, presented here by Senator Bignami and signed by 94 senators, including myself. On this day, let's think about this. [[Applause from the M5S Group and the Senators Bencini, Bignami and Orellana]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-09-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-881.ana.u162	Thank you very much, Senator Maurizio Romani, for the very serious topic you have touched on.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-09-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-881.ana.u163	The motions, questions and questions received by the Presidency will be published in Annex B to today's report. I remember that the Senate will come back to meet in public today, at 4 p.m., with the agenda already printed and distributed. The sitting was closed at 10.01 p.m.
