ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-785.ana.u1	The sitting is open (9.32 a.m.). The Minutes shall be read. Mr Berger, Secretary, read the Minutes of the afternoon sitting of the previous day. PRESIDENT. - The debate is Since there were no comments, the Minutes were approved.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-785.ana.u2	The list of senators on leave and absent on assignment received from the Senate, as well as further communications to the Assembly, will be published in Annex B to today's Minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-785.ana.u3	I would warn you that qualified votes can be taken in the course of today's sitting by electronic means. Therefore, from this moment the period of 20 minutes from the notice provided for in Article 119, paragraph 1 of the Regulation (9.35 hours) begins.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-785.ana.u4	The next item is the continuation of the debate on draft law Nos. 2067, 1844 and 2032, already approved by the Chamber of Deputies, 176, 209, 286, 299, 381, 382, 384, 385, 386, 387, 389, 468, 581, 597, 609, 614, 700, 708, 709, 1008, 1113, 1456, 1587, 1681, 1682, 1683, 1684, 1693, 1713, 1824, 1905, 1921, 1922, 2103, 2295 and 2457. I would remind you that at yesterday's afternoon sitting the Minister for Constitutional Reforms and Relations with Parliament tabled amendment 1,900 on the approval of which he raised the question of trust and the discussion on the question of trust took place.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-785.ana.u5	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-785.ana.u6	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-785.ana.u7	IN MAY (CoR). Mr President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, it is not a good legislator - and I apologise in advance for the bickering of words - to settle on the calm adagio living, nothing moving, which is exactly what is happening with regard to the measure that we are going to vote on today, among other things by a method that we have largely contested in this House, namely the vote of confidence. Such a measure would have deserved much more attention, since it affects the real life passages of our country. Once again, it sees the legislator remaining third - which, in my opinion, would never have to be done - between two opposing instances, which come from the world of lawyering and that of the judiciary. The legislator, who would have the obligation to examine and intervene, remains totally out of this skirmish that we have been able to live widely in the Commission. What does that involve? The citizen's right is compressed, which is always surpassed by interests that relegate him to a secondary role. The measure is important for two fundamental aspects, which have also attracted the attention of the media and are rather controversial concepts, such as prescription and interception. The Conservatives and Reformists Group had proposed amendments on this subject which could certainly have helped the measure. However, we are always overcome by this vote of confidence, which frankly surprises us, because in the end it solves absolutely nothing. I started by saying quietly, nothing moving: we are today dismissing a measure on which we will vote against and which we hope can be rejected by this House, because it does not solve the problems of the criminal trial. The trial will remain very long and the victim, as usual, will be the citizen, who will remain crushed between two great powers, the judiciary and the lawyer, and we will have solved nothing. The final result of these processes, in fact, is that our social system lives the economic negligence that then comes from these facts. We have neither been able to work well in the Commission nor to amend the measure in this House. I believe that the government would do well if it decided to take up this measure, which absolutely does not help to solve the problems of the criminal trial. For the reasons I have just stated, the Conservative and Reformist Group will vote against this measure. [[Applause from the CoR Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-785.ana.u8	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-785.ana.u9	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-785.ana.u10	MINEO (Misto-SI-SEL). Mr President, the reform that we are called upon to vote on today is important in many respects. Inside it it contains expected measures, such as some measures that make prison detention more civilised and for which a radical exponent has also made hunger strike, such as changing the limitation periods for child abuse (and recently we have seen that an abuse has been prescribed, so justice has not been done). This is a measure that has been in Parliament for a long time, since its parliamentary process began in May 2014, three years ago. If the responsibility for this length of time lies with Parliament, for example with the Senate Justice Commission (which I have been attending for some time and where the lawyers and judges often cross the blades, and on the other hand yesterday in the Senate you saw these skirmishes in the Assembly), or with senators and Members who do not do their duty (and sometimes they do not when - Monday in the House - they show a desolately empty Chamber, while being in question an important measure such as the biological will), if these were the reasons for which the Government puts trust, it should be voted on. Unfortunately, this is not the case at all. The measure on the reform of the criminal trial and of the code of criminal procedure was blocked because of the contradictions within the Renzi Government, which literally seized this reform, bringing it to the Chamber, and then removing it to the Assembly, because within it there were differences that did not seem to be modular. Today, unfortunately, the Government Gentiloni Silveri asks for the confidence precisely to compose, with a unitary afflate only of facade, these differences that cannot be filled. But what is the difference between the Government and what is the difficulty of adopting this document? Let us be clear that it is about the crimes of so-called white collars. Today, ladies and gentlemen, on page 21 of the "Corriere della Sera" there is an article by Gian Antonio Stella, which explains very well how only 0.9% of prisoners are for financial crimes, a 20th of what happens in Germany, explaining instead that prisons are full of drug dealers. Well, the measure that we will have to vote on today doubles the penalties for thefts, which are, of course, violence for those who suffer them, from three to six years. So those who were already in prison will go there for an even longer period. At the same time, the measure reduces the expenditure on wiretapping. You know very well that interceptions are a fundamental tool, especially in the case of white-collar crimes, financial crimes, which concern the mediation between politics and business. Not only this; the public ministry is placed a limit for the investigations that, as Falcone has explained - although many of you who have exalted the sacrifice his and of Borsellino then forget it - are enormously more complicated when it comes to financial crimes, crimes of white collettos, crimes involving politics. On these issues the Government has found a downward mediation, so the fundamental point is not resolved. I am referring, for example, to the amendment of the limitation period, which would have been useful and suggested by the magistrates in order to prevent these crimes, which create a very serious social emergency, from remaining unpunished. This would be enough to justify the vote against the confidence requested by the Silveri Gentiloni Government, but I would like to conclude by saying clearly to this House, a little distracted, what this legislature has been. This legislature has seen a Parliament hostage of the Renzi Government, which has proceeded in two ways; on the one hand, with an anti-parliamentary populism - remember the night sessions to show that parliamentarians were not working while the Government imposed governability - on the other hand, with parliamentary transformation, widening the majority until it made it absolutely incapable of carrying out such measures. This has to stop; the Silveri Gentiloni Government has done wrong to put trust because to some extent it tries to bring home results and mediations of the Renzi Government by the same methods. We cannot stand on this and we in the Italian Left will vote against confidence. [[Applause from the Misso-SI-SEL Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-785.ana.u11	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-785.ana.u12	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-785.ana.u13	Bisinella (Misto-Fare!). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Undersecretary, it is a pity that Minister Orlando is not following the debate because on such an important subject the presence of the Minister of Justice would have been absolutely fundamental. I say it now: we of the Mixed-Doing Group! We will not vote for confidence in this measure, and although it contains some improvements, it did not take the opportunity to give a precise, serious and rigorous response by the State to the need for greater security required by citizens. We are now witnessing daily - reported by the news - disturbing facts that show how crimes such as house thefts, robberies, violations of private domicile, thefts and robberies committed in commercial businesses, in the professional field and in business activities, are now on the agenda. Statistics show an increase in predatory offences. This is probably due to the economic crisis, but also to a great presence, in recent years, of irregular immigration in our country. Especially in the last decade this has determined in many cities, from the largest to the smallest up to the outskirts, an almost invincible situation, and there is no day when you do not hear about an unfortunate episode of this type. Among other things, it must always be remembered to all of us that these crimes are committed with ever greater violence against people: it is not only a matter of seeing the most expensive things taken away by the violation, however unacceptable, of their home and their private home, but also the ways in which these crimes are perpetrated, with an incredibly heinousness, which leaves citizens dismayed, who do not feel adequately protected by the State. We therefore hoped that, with this great revision of the codes (penal, criminal procedure and penitentiary law) a strong response from the State could and should be found. We presented a bill at my first signature, combined with the Government's bill which was later translated into specific amending proposals, which could be a cross-cutting opportunity to support a strong tightening of penalties. We had proposed that the penalties should be tripled, considering also technically the objective possibility that this could happen, for a double purpose: a response of strong repression, but also a purpose of prevention, because acting on the deterrent, giving a strong signal of response of justice and the State to those criminals in our country, we could work over time for a decrease of this type of crime. Moreover, we had proposed a balance of these norms and of the raising of penalties that could also allow the magistrates to move in a clearer and more precise regulatory environment, so as to avoid those pronouncements that are the result of discretion that often leave citizens dismayed, that perhaps they see a person arrested with much effort and incredible commitment by the Forces of the Order, who also risk their lives for the defence of the citizens, be released within a couple of days. We will continue to carry out our proposal in every place and we expect it to be accompanied by the review of self-defence, on which we have also presented our own initiative. There are a number of proposals from various groups and I believe that the Government has a duty to listen to the demands made in the parliamentary classrooms, as requests from the citizens. Therefore, we cannot say that we are satisfied on this front. The events of the praiser of a few days ago are yet another proof of the remoteness of this House, at this moment, from the real needs of citizens and their needs. In view of these considerations, and by pursuing this battle of ours, which is the battle of all citizens, we absolutely cannot give support to the Government on this measure. [[Applause from Senator Bellot.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-785.ana.u14	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-785.ana.u15	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-785.ana.u16	STEFANI (LN-Aut). Mr President, we had the opportunity to speak on the penal code and the code of criminal procedure in an effective, efficient and perhaps resolving way of some problems, but another opportunity was missed, among other things with an iter that saw the exclusion of Parliament and the members of the Commission justice from the possibility of building the rule, because the draft law under consideration was practically a governmental initiative. The text that came before the House, despite the debate in the Commission, presents a strong pressure from the Government and we do not at all get to vote on confidence today, when we could instead examine many proposals made by the Group of the North Legacy but also by other colleagues and perhaps we could change the penal code and code of criminal procedure, at this time much discussed. Undoubtedly, the situation of crime is very particular in our day: there is an increase in predatory crimes to which this bill does not offer an effective solution, as it provides for interventions almost of beautification, increasing the penalties for theft, robbery and extortion: initiatives that seem made only because we of the Group of the North League continue to insist on this issue for years. In fact, we would not like this measure to have been put in place in view of the future election campaign, in which perhaps the government tries to mask with few interventions the inefficiency that characterized the last legislature in terms of the fight against crime. Remember that it is useless to increase the penalties without affecting the benefits recognized by the prison order through all the hypotheses elaborated with the measures emptied prisons. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group]] We continue to say that, because the great problem of the regulatory intervention under consideration is that it does not affect at all all the measures launched in this legislature by the Government and the majority with the sole aim of not letting the criminals go to jail. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group]] The main problem, in fact, is to keep prisons with a regulatory capacity, so the stated goal is not to send criminals to jail. I am referring therefore to the whole of the various hypotheses that provide for early release, namely the fact that for every six months of imprisonment any criminal earns 75 days of early release and therefore counting them eliminates several years of punishment. Then there are all the rules that provide for preventive imprisonment only for crimes punished with penalties of more than five years, non-penalty for facts of particular tenuity, meaning crimes punished with penalties of up to five years; it is expected the hypothesis of testing, this archanum and strange institute proper to the juvenile trial and which provides a form of purification from the crime whenever we subject ourselves to this kind of procedure of reeducation. All these interventions, all these norms have created in Italy a system that can only be well seen by crime, because obviously passes the message that in Italy you do not go to jail. The measure under discussion has done nothing in this respect, as it has maintained the same line and continued to provide benefits. It is not for nothing that the measure provides for the prosecution of all offences punishable by penalties of up to four years in the case of offences against the person or against the property. This means emptying the activities of the prosecutors, because the problem is not to charge the prosecutors with work and not to defend the citizens, investigating and condemning those who commit crimes. These are the problems present in this measure, but not only: the repairing pipes. True, the criminal has to compensate for the damage. But that's got to make up for it anyway. You may intervene for the purpose of determining the amount of the penalty, but do not go to exclude the penalty at the time when repairing the damages is carried out. Also because in this way it almost makes a distinction by census. The rich criminal has the chance to be unpunished and the poor criminal will be indicted. We have put forward very serious proposals on these issues: tightening of penalties for all predatory crimes (theft and robbery) and modifying the now forgotten self-defense. It is a problem, because now there are cases that always jump to the honors of the chronicle: the jeweler, the tobacconist or the gas station. A whole series of criminal cases that continue to be dealt with by the judiciary, allowing the judiciary to use that area of discretion which the rule grants. And we wanted to solve them, and that is why we had tabled a draft law; which went to the House, was dealt with in the Assembly, it has been reduced by including an amendment which provides for some sort of assessment of the psychological situation of those who react, but it does not solve the problem, and it has been covered up in the Commission. And now, self-defense when it is no longer spoken of, becomes important and essential. Therefore, we cannot and will never be able to vote on a measure, and without any confidence, when we insist on this trend and do not want to give an effective solution to the problem of a country that, as you can see, now has the feeling that it no longer has security. So, gentlemen, to the citizens the arduous sentence. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-785.ana.u17	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-785.ana.u18	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-785.ana.u19	GIOVANARDI (GAL (GS, PPI, M, Id, E-E, MPL, RI)). Mr President, I take advantage of the courtesy of Mr Mineo, who referred to this morning as an authoritative source, an article by Stella on the "Corriere della Sera" to say that in Italy crimes against public administration are not prosecuted, because the percentage of people in prison for these crimes is much less than that of people convicted of other crimes. We are screwing ourselves on a series of hoaxes, gigantic, cosmic bullies that have polluted the political debate: the famous 60 billion per year of corruption that would weigh on Italy, which would therefore be one of the most corrupt countries in the world. As I have said several times to my colleagues, it is as if in each of your Provinces, where you live, every year there are 600 million bribes. You understand that these are numbers challenged by the Court of Auditors, because they are totally out of reality. Numbers that are the result of polls on people's opinion. Now, if you want to build legislation on these opinions, you understand that we are already crazy, in the sense that, when someone goes to examine the reality of the trials for facts of corruption or concussion, he discovers that there are a few hundred a year. We are talking about millions of cases of corruption, theorists, and we see that they correspond to a few hundred trials, which do not end with the prescription but with the sentence of acquittal or condemnation. The phenomenon of prescription, in the crimes of the public administration, is very rare. Instead, what are we doing with this measure? I personally agree with the increase in sentence for predatory crimes up to six years (even if it is little). The phenomenon of thefts in the house, in fact, is one of the most terrible experiences that can happen to a person, since his home is violated, his intimacy and sometimes his personal security (sometimes in the robbed houses there are also heinous murders) and throughout his life remains the terror of finding the thieves in the house again. It's happened to me several times that I've been robbed in the house, but I don't want to bring my case back, because with anyone who talks to you, you find that more and more you have the problem of finding thieves in the house. It is clear, therefore, that there is a very lively social alarm, combined with the impossibility of police and police action, who say that Romanians come here from abroad because there, if they catch them, they go to jail, while here, if they find them, the next day they are out. Then there is the tam tam to come to Italy to steal in people's homes, because here is a tack. Therefore, the increase in the penalty is right and I had also pointed out to the Ministry of the Interior the need for stricter penalties. Another operation is also being carried out in this measure, the one I presented yesterday with a table. Someone is accused of a crime against the public administration, which can be very serious; as a disturbance in judicial acts, induction, crimes such as those we will talk about in the following session, that is to say the trafficking of illicit influences (which then is not well understood what is the unlawful, the lawful and what is the traffic), and the legislator, with the provision that will pass with the confidence of some colleagues, arrests today the accused and then takes up to thirty-six years to do the trial, because the maximum limit for corruption from the table turns out to be thirty-six years; but also for all the other crimes the legislator, from 2015 to today, has brought the prescription from nine to eighteen years, that is to double it for each of these crimes. I asked yesterday and then I ask the Minister of Justice (if there were any), the Undersecretary and colleagues again today: but, in your opinion, is it a legal civilization in which a citizen, a public official or an entrepreneur is accused of something, is imprisoned and then the order plans to keep him there suspended for thirty-five years without telling him whether he is innocent or guilty? For I am of the idea that corruption and concussion, the real ones, the real ones, those that happen in your cities must be pursued with great determination; but when the magistrates have the evidence and the elements to arrest someone, then it takes thirty-five years to do the trial? Silvio Berlusconi in three years has done the first degree, the second degree and the Cassation and has been expelled from this House; this means that, when the judiciary has the will to make a trial, damn if it does it and it does it in very rapid terms. So what are the twenty years, the twenty - five years or the thirty - five years for? My colleagues want to explain it to me. Will the Minister explain it to me? What is the use of this dramatic backwardness of the legal civilization of a country, in whose constitution it is written that there is the presumption of not guilty until the judgment passed in court? One enters a tunnel - I said it yesterday and I repeat - ruins his family, suspends him from service, no longer takes his salary and stays there for years, years and years, under the sword of Damocles of such a culture. We discussed this with Mr Lumia in the Commission: Lumia claims that the state must take all the time it takes to strike a guilty person. It's a bit Davigo's thesis: yes, in clean Hands there have been absolutions, the judicial error is not the fact that one has been arrested, but it is the absolution, according to him. Perhaps it has not yet been acquired that - just go and see the statistics - those who end up in prison in Italy or in any case are accused in 30, 40, 50 or 60 percent of the cases then is acquitted. The judges, compared to the public prosecutors' initiative, show that the person who suffered this ordeal was perfectly innocent. When you accuse a person, the results are then two: it can be condemned (and for crimes against the public administration the prescription is a very rare fact, dear Mineo, so I don't know what we are talking about) or can be acquitted. Therefore - as a colleague said yesterday - a person, when sentenced after twenty or thirty years, is no longer the same guilty person who committed the crime; imagine an innocent person, when acquitted after thirty years by a fact that has tainted his reputation, ruined his honor and destroyed his family. The order after thirty or thirty-five years tells him that he is innocent, if he tells him, because I pointed out a small phenomenon: the more shaky the accusation, the more the collected elements have served perhaps to a great media clash, no longer do the trial, despite the defendant fights to obtain a sentence. I have mentioned cases of people, fellow Members, who have been arrested for seven years and the procedure, after years and years, has been closed without even referral back to trial, after we had read in the newspapers that they had been arrested. I have said these things in the Commission and I repeat them in this House. I will not vote for trust; someone else in my group, who may be part of the government, will vote for it. I express my personal opinion, waiting for someone from the government or the majority to explain to me which legal civilization is the one that behaves in this way. I see a famous table, published by the "Corriere della Sera" (which is not the Gospel), in which there are no United Kingdom and France, and Switzerland has fewer people in prison than we have of these crimes. If, therefore, the judiciary were to concentrate on pursuing not the statistics and opinion polls, which cover us with ridicule and contempt in the face of the whole world, but the real facts of corruption and concussion, and, when it has the evidence, did trials that last very little and that demonstrate in a few years that the culprit is condemned and ends up in prison, we, perhaps, would have solved the problem. In fact, Mr Caliendo, a great magistrate, in the Commission has shown that, after the laws adopted under the Berlusconi governments - I am thinking of the so-called ex-Cirielli law - the prescribed crimes have decreased and not increased: I repeat, the number of the prescribed crimes has fallen by far. On the contrary, as a result of the measure under consideration which extends the terms to infinity, the number of prescriptions will increase to an extent, because the longer there is, the less process will be done and perhaps something more medialy fruitful will be dealt with. I cannot forget that we are a country in which De Magistris is mayor of Naples and our colleague Nicola Magrone did first the magistrate and then entered Parliament with the left. Afterwards, he went back to being a magistrate in Larino and arrested Di Giandomenico, our parliamentary colleague. After seven years, all the people he has arrested have not even been sent to trial. And now he is mayor of Modugno (I refer to Magrone and not Di Giandomenico, who of course was ruined by the arrest). I cannot forget that the magistrates are in politics, they are among us and they are mayors, the Presidents of the Puglia Region and they are candidates in the Democratic Party. Does it seem like a normal country where such things happen? These are the terrible anomalies that we carry with us and, unfortunately, the measure under consideration, providing for an absurd and insane increase in the limitation periods, instead of improving the situation, dramatically worsens it. [[Applause from the LAGs (GS, PPI, M, Id, E-E, MPL, RI) and CoR.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-785.ana.u20	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-785.ana.u21	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-785.ana.u22	RICHIUTI (Art. 1-MDP). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the measure for the reform of the criminal trial, which lasted for many months, returns to this House today. The legislative framework of the bill introduces significant novelties in our justice system and presents itself, objectively, as a text of political mediation between the different positions that have been highlighted in the parliamentary majority. For these reasons, while there is a balanced framework of synthesis, the final text sacrifices a more innovative discipline on certain points of the reform that would have been essential for an entirely positive assessment. Moreover, having placed trust has taken away from us the possibility of contributing to an improvement in the text in this House. First of all - as I have been able to support in this House several months ago - the new legal regime does not prefigure a solution of radical change in the discipline on prescription, as I had hoped and as all the observers, from Caselli to Gratteri, from Roberti to Canton, from Libera to Ripa il futuro, have been calling for for years. I fear, in fact, that it may not be decisive to extend only the limitation period between appeal and Cassation, even if it is certainly an improvement compared to the current state of the legislation. Several days ago, the European Commission, which published the Country Report on Italy 2016, which included an in-depth review on the prevention and correction of macroeconomic imbalances, highlighted the shortcomings of our justice system. Brussels reminds us that Italy has ranked in the 26th place in the European Union for the control of corruption, which has obtained from Transparency International one of the worst results among the European democracies and has positioned one hundred and twenty out of thirty-eight countries with regard to favoritism in the decisions of civil servants and eighty-seventh regarding the distraction of public funds. The European Commission expresses its opinion on the requirement: The current system considerably hinders the repression of corruption, not least because it stimulates tactical delays on the part of lawyers. The relationship between the number of criminal proceedings prescribed and the number of criminal proceedings concluded indicates that the requirements at first instance have increased since 2013, rising to 9.5% in 2015. As regards the appeals courts, in the period from 2006 to 2015, this ratio increased from 12.3 to 22.6 percent. Prescription rates at the Court of Cassation are lower, but they have been rising for a few years. Overall, a high percentage of cases fall into prescription after the conviction of first degree. Always a few days ago, the Turin Court of Appeal declared the prescription of a rape crime on a minor, which occurred about twenty years ago, after the celebration of the first degree of judgment, about ten years after the crime and after the end of the appeal process, after another ten years. Crimes involving asbestos deaths have been prescribed, just as we have the reasonable doubt that the trial on the tragedy of Viareggio may be prescribed for certain offences. These events, which have aroused a feeling of deep indignation in many of us, represent only the last of the most serious cases, which remind us of the urgency to immediately put hand to the prescription regime, to make Italy a more civilized country. In the work of the Commission for the preparation of legislative proposals on the fight against organized crime, chaired by the Prosecutor of the Republic of Catanzaro, Nicola Gratteri, and delivered at the end of 2014 to the Parliamentary Anti-Mafia Commission, the Chamber of Deputies and the Senate, and substantially ignored by the Renzi Government, some significant proposals for amendments to the penal code and the Code of Criminal Procedure have been made. In particular, the Commission's report starts from the analysis of the issue of the termination of the crime by prescription, stating the need for a new regulatory design. The repeal of paragraph 2 of Article 161 of the penal code and the addition of the conviction at first instance as an interruptive - and not suspensive - fact, as it is proposed in the text - would have been more coherent. For these reasons, compared to the legislative proposal set out in the draft law n. 2067 that we are considering today, we would definitely have liked to see a less timid and more decisive approach to the specific prescription regime. I would also like to comment on a second significant radical reform of the justice system, contained in the Commission's text chaired by Dr. Gratteri: undercover operations in order to detect illegal activities in the public administration, extending the discipline set out in Article 9 of Law No 146 of 2006 and subsequent amendments to an exhaustive list of offences against the public administration, as well as the resulting offences of collection, recycling and re-use of the relevant proceeds. It is unfortunately known that, on this subject too, the previous Renzi Government has never intended to accept any indications, accumulating new delays that today leave a normative vacuum. Finally, we would like to stress a point that is creating further alarm between some of the leaders of the prosecutors and that concerns the insertion, provided for in Article 18 of the draft law under consideration, of paragraph 3-a to Article 407 of the Code of Criminal Procedure. The rules in question provide for an obligation for the public prosecutor to prosecute or to file a case within three months of the end of the preliminary investigations, as well as the obligation to appeal by the prosecutor-general to the court of appeal. The risk feared also by the junta of the National Judicial Association is to produce a new clogging in the work of the offices even more serious than today, especially because of the shortage in the staff of the administrative staff, slowing down the work of the prosecutors until complete paralysis. If the Government's intention is to speed up the processes - which we naturally share - to equip the justice apparatus with all the necessary tools and administrative staff, it should have been the priority choice over all the others. We do not understand why there is no provision for electronic notification for criminal proceedings, as is the case for civil proceedings. We are still standing by the paper notification, that is to say the far west, when the world goes in another direction. Finally, let us give a positive opinion on the delegation for the reform of the penitentiary system and on the rules concerning the rationalization of the costs for interceptions, which transpose a proposal from myself and Senator Lo Moro, presented during the examination of the delegation contained in the reform Madia and inexplicably not exercised. On the residences for the execution of security measures (REMS) I refer to the exhaustive intervention of my fellow Senator Dirindin. In conclusion, in the hope that the next move to the Chamber of Deputies will improve the problematic aspects that we have highlighted, within a overall positive assessment of the establishment of the bill, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group Article 1 - Democratic and Progressive Movement, I declare the vote in favour of the reform of the criminal process. [[Applause from the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and ……]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-785.ana.u23	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-785.ana.u24	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-785.ana.u25	FALANGA (ALA-SCLP). Mr President, I listened to the last speech by my colleague, who, after explaining the countless reasons for dispute and disapproval of the text in our examination, concludes with an explanation of vote in favour. That seems to me to be a clear contradiction. We cannot criticize a measure so harshly and then make an explanation of vote in favour of it. She also spoke of a measure which would be the result of political mediation. For the truth, rather than political mediation, I would talk about an incursion, about something that tastes like the Neapolitan package, what is sold - or perhaps I should say that it was sold - in the markets of some Neapolitan neighborhoods; that package that, once opened, does not contain the object that was first shown to you. The New Right Center was made to imagine a solution of mediation through the insertion of the norm that provides, for the prosecutor of the Republic, the conclusion within a certain term of the investigations, that is the obligation to pronounce the final decision to the outcome of the investigations within three months. Why is it a package? It is because, where this is not the case, i.e. when the time limit is not met, the procedure is invoked by the General Prosecutor, who must take the measure which the Prosecutor of the Republic should have taken within the specified period. Of course, in order to adopt the measure, the Prosecutor-General will have to read the entire dossier and this takes time and the general prosecutors - as we know - are understaffed in all roles. In addition, those who go to the general prosecutor's office and make a particular choice of professional life will have to examine a number of files and take significant and important measures which may be of storage or of request for referral to court. The New Right Centro has been satisfied, but is he satisfied? If I had been on that side, I would have said no, because I don't make a fool of myself in this way by the majority. I would therefore dismiss the question of the avocation of the General Prosecutor as an incision or package - as I said - in order to match colleagues of liberal culture, like mine, of the New Right Center. My colleague, if you think that by extending the three-year limitation period, you can get to judgment, I tell you that you are wrong, because you can extend the prescription by three or four years but we will see the effects of the reform later. The number of crimes that are extinguished because the trials are interrupted by prescription - believe me - with this reform will not decrease. What most reveals is that you, by providing for further lengthening of the prescription, plan to solve the problem of justice. All you do is certify and put in writing that our country - according to you - with the extension of the prescription will be more civil. I say, however, that it will be more uncivilized because, when a citizen is sentenced after twenty-five years by the committee, a completely different person is condemned. He is no longer the same person: if a twenty-year-old commits a crime and is sentenced to forty-five years, you are no longer condemning that twenty-year-old subject who, with his unscrupulousness of the young age, committed a crime; you are condemning another person, who over time has contracted marriage, has formed a family, has become a father and, perhaps, a grandfather. And you condemn him for a fact he committed twenty-five years earlier. I think this is purely legal incivility. On the other hand, she concluded the intervention by saying that she hopes that her country, with the further lengthening of the prescription, will become more civilized. Gratteri is the Attorney General of Catanzaro and we have heard a report about it. I must say that I value him very much as a magistrate, I have a great deal of consideration and I have feelings of admiration for him, but the magistrate must do his job and not the laws. Parliament cannot legislate on the suggestions made by Mr Gratteri, Mr Cantone or the others mentioned by her colleague. We must regain our legislative autonomy, our power to legislate, regardless of the demands that come from one part of the process. When it is said that the National Association of Judges does not agree and has made some proposals, I can also take the suggestions into consideration, but I cannot obey the prescriptions of a part of the trial. I have a lot of respect for the Italian judiciary and I think it is one of the best magistrates in the European countries. We have prepared magistrates who work hard in a judicial system that does not provide them with the means to work. Senator and Undersecretary Chiavaroli, I have told Minister Orlando several times that the problem of justice is not solved by changes to the Code of Criminal Procedure now or to the Code of Civil Procedure tomorrow. It is carried out with an orderly change, which means giving means and increasing the number of magistrates. In our country we have civil hearings where a magistrate alone, behind his desk, with a room full of lawyers and parties, must intervene and take decisions in about 100 cases at each hearing. How can he do good work from one legal question to another at any time? And the same goes for the penalty. It is therefore necessary to intervene from the point of view of order. The part about the telematic process may be shared by us, but we cannot foresee a requirement that goes without saying. If you think the problem is prescription, let's repeal the institute and say that crimes are never prescribed. Perhaps that legal civilization that my colleague speaks of will come about. I believe there will be legal incivilisation. The Government and the majority by this provision are certifying that we are not able, in twenty years, to guarantee and assure a citizen the judgment on a judicial affair that has seen him as the protagonist. We are putting it in writing: we are telling Italian citizens that we cannot guarantee them a sentence in twenty years and that is why we are asking for more time (twenty-five, thirty or forty years). We can ask to give ourselves as much time as we want, but in this way we commit a profound injustice and give signs of pure civilization. The European Commission has not said the things my colleague said before, but has said something else. If the time available to me was not to run out, I would read you, Mr President, those passages which show that the European Commission says what I say, and not what my colleague says. For these reasons, we cannot vote for the government. And this Government and this majority should pay attention to the fact that putting trust in a subject like this, preventing us from discussing it in this Chamber and trying to make improvements, is an act of arrogance, accompanied - I repeat - by institutional functions that have arrogantly prevented us even from dealing with the issue of impproposity. The amendment that the Government presented the day before yesterday and which was sent to the Commission is, in fact, impossible. [[Senator Milo's applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-785.ana.u26	On behalf of the Assembly, I greet the teachers and students of the State Professional Institute (Marco Gavio Apicio) of Anzio, in the province of Rome, who are attending our work. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-785.ana.u27	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-785.ana.u28	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-785.ana.u29	BUEMI (Aut (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT)-PSI-MAIE). Mr President, representatives of the Government, ladies and gentlemen, the question of trust put by the Government on the draft law delegation of the reform of the criminal process is an act of political responsibility which, under the conditions given - I repeat: under the conditions given - we share. The reform of the penal code and the code of criminal procedure cannot further wait for Parliament to give its final opinion. The changes introduced with the new discipline appear to be consistent with the principles of the right process, except for the timing of the prescription - which I will say later - defined by Article 111 of the Constitution, and therefore determine fundamental guarantees regarding the rights related to the defendant's participation in the preliminary investigations and criminal proceedings, with regard to an organic revision of the penal code, with reference to the procedure of office or to the prosecution of a party's claim. The extent of the damage in crimes against the person and against the property is the discriminatory point between a stricter sanctioning regime for the most serious cases, in order to protect the victims of the crime, and the possibility of the judge, in cases of a minor entity, to declare the termination of the offence once it has been established that the damage has been fully compensated. Innovations in the processability of minor crimes against the person or property are not intended to diminish the seriousness of such crimes on the social level; on the contrary, they introduce the conditions for cases of denied justice to be able and to be reduced, guaranteeing effective legal certainty, through a real simplification of the procedural activity. For the same purposes, the new rules on appeal seem to be inspired, the recovery of the institute of the plea settlement, freeing the second-degree judgment from an unsustainable burden of trials today. The new discipline of second-degree judgment, with the changes in the matter of appeal, contributes to a more efficient prosecution. The proposed amendments to the rules governing preliminary investigations of the filing procedure, for the most part procedural, outline further simplification measures, the sole aim of which is a more efficient organisation, last but not least by reviewing the rules governing the appeal for Cassation with the tightening of sanctions in the event of inadmissibility. We are aware - and it could not be otherwise - of the more complex points of the delegation measure, which outline an urgent and structural reform, as in the first place the matter of interceptions, on which the Government decided to intervene with the presentation of the maxi amendment that, to the maximum extent possible, took account of the parliamentary confrontation. The principles and guiding criteria identified in the field of interception are consistent with an essential profile: to provide for requirements that involve greater and effective safeguards regarding the confidentiality of communications and telephone conversations. We share the urgency and the need to intervene in terms of both the reform of the penitentiary system - one of the most qualifying elements of the measure - and the definition of security measures to ensure that psychiatric judicial hospitals are effectively overcome. Social security and the re-educational purpose of the sentence are not incompatible principles: on the contrary, they relate to each other. We can't turn around on the other side. In the case of the OPGs, it is essential to put an end to a scheme, already sanctioned several times in Europe, in which there is no verification of provisional safety measures and therapeutic and rehabilitation treatment. The scandal of white life must belong to the past and access to new residences for the implementation of safety measures (REMS) must stand out for health treatment not exclusively segregation. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, having appreciated the positive aspects of this measure, however, we cannot fail to express our greatest concerns about the forecast of a further increase in the time limit. We think that, in order to counter the difficulty of concluding the trials within a reasonable period, as provided for in Article 111 of our Constitution, we should intervene with greater organizational and administrative measures, increasing the efficiency of the system and not moving away from the time of the final judgment, whether it is a condemnation or a waiver. Respect for Parliament's prerogatives is inspired by the intention of the report to be presented annually by the Government with regard to personal protective measures, distinguished by type and with their results, adopted in the previous year. The draft law complements this information requirement by providing that the report also contains data relating to judgments on recognition of the right to reparation for unjust detention made in the previous year, specifying questions and entities of reparations, in addition to the number of disciplinary proceedings initiated against magistrates for the established unfair detentions. This brings us to the problems which have also been dealt with in Europe. It is quite clear that the decisive point of the reform is the adoption of legislative decrees by the Government. This is confirmed by the provision for an enhanced procedure, which provides for the opinion of the competent parliamentary committees within 60 days of the transmission of the acts and a new opinion of the competent Commissions within 10 days - this is a substantial aspect - in the event that the decrees do not comply with the parliamentary opinions expressed. In conclusion, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, to the Minister of Justice, Mr Orlando and the Government, we acknowledge a strong commitment to the approval of this reform. We are called to assume our responsibilities and, therefore, act accordingly. As far as the Group for Autonomies-PSI-MAIE is concerned, this results in a strong vote in favour of the measure and confidence in the Government. [[Applause from the Aut Group (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT) - PSI-MAIE.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-785.ana.u30	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-785.ana.u31	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-785.ana.u32	D'Ascola (AP (Ncd-CpE)). Mr President, I shall speak in scattered order because of course it is not possible to report and report accurately on the constituent points of such a complex bill. Let me begin with a general consideration: we are faced with a sector reform, and certainly not a system reform, which is therefore aimed at responding to and solving specific, and not overall, problems relating to the criminal justice system. After this premise, which obviously does not want to reduce the importance of the legislative text we are dealing with, but only, in a certain sense, to place it in its exact dimension, certainly that of prescription is one of the issues that have most passionate about the debate and have made it complex and difficult. When it comes to prescription, I think we should do so with a different awareness of the institution we are dealing with, and above all its constitutional basis. Prescription is not, in fact, just an institution of substantive law, since it certainly ensures the reasonable duration of the process and, therefore, a requirement contained within Article 111 of the Constitution. Obviously, the many criticisms unmotivated and without sufficient reflection, and perhaps even preparation, to the institute, in a certain sense generate an obvious response from those who have a different awareness of it. Well, if you consider the prescription to be a kind of obstacle to the way of investigation that could even reach thirty years from the committee of the fact, let's do without it. And, while leaving aside the obvious answers that should reasonably be given (in the sense of asking how seriously one can think of ascertaining the responsibility of some when the interval between the date of commission of the fact and that of the judgment is so wide as to frustrate every possibility not only of defending oneself by trying, but concretely indicating the reasons for it), it still remains a fundamental objection. We do without the prescription and it is clear that we say it provocatively. If, however, we were to do without limitation, it is obvious that it should still be replaced by a similar institution that functions in the inevitable direction of speeding up the process and at least to ensure the reasonable duration provided for by the Constitution. Finally, it must be understood that it is not legitimate to think freely about the duration of the processes, because a precise constitutional constraint requires the legislator to provide in the sense of introducing rules capable of saying that, after a certain period, the process can no longer be celebrated because there is even a lack of the premises not only legal - if one wants to make politics, and I would say serious - but even those that are based on the balanced relationship between authority and freedom. The prescription serves precisely to ensure that the requirements of the punitive power, legitimate and certainly prevailing up to a certain point, must be stopped before the finding of the inability to give a response with judgment to judicial matters, except to want to exchange - which unfortunately characterizes the reasoning of the many - the cause with the effect. The prescription solves a pathology once it is found that it is still not possible to give a judgment in the prescribed terms by law. The cause, of course, is the delay of justice in responding to citizens. I repeat then that, if this confusion is not unlawful to do and if, above all, there is a constitutional constraint, we could also do without the prescription, knowing however that the prescription will have to take over an institution capable of guaranteeing the reasonable duration of the trials. The text on the point is balanced, because we started from requests that could not be shared. The limitation from the date of registration, made by the public prosecutor, of notitia crime in the register of suspects, would also have exposed the proxy offices to a problematic activity of registration, where it was evident that any delay, even the most insignificant, would have been contested by the public prosecutor, because it would have resulted in a sacrifice of rights of freedom that are also provided for in the Constitution. The system was unreasonable, also because it ended up not giving a fundamental answer to the topic of the prescription, which must inevitably be calibrated on the date of commission of the crime, because that is the temporal data that parametra the personality of the subject and, therefore, inevitably, the delay of the State in giving a response with sentence to a judicial case, when it is said: we cannot judge a person thirty years after the fact, because it is different than the one that would commit the crime, noticing at what time the prosecutor enrolled the notitia crime. It is absolutely unacceptable, then, also the other proposal to stop it with the judgment at first instance, albeit absolute. Here we do not understand, in fact, a fundamental fact: when you say judgment of first instance, without specifying whether of condemnation or absolution, you imply the improbable solution according to which even the acquitted person, if the judgment is challenged, will have to implore the celebration of an appeal judgment in order to be eventually eliminated a pending load that cuts him off from a whole series of activities, such as career progression, that manifest a social recognition to which the acquitted person would clearly have right. The text is balanced and intervenes only in cases where an appeal is brought and, therefore, maintaining the liberal character of the institution of limitation. The term starts from the date of commission of the crime, is interrupted by the judgment that has acquired authority of what is judged and, without prejudice to particularly increased cases of limitation for certain titles of crime (such as the facts of corruption), results in an increase of one year and six months for the two phases of the appeal: the appeal and the appeal for cassation. It is a solution that certainly defines itself as a pejorative institution for how historically it is built, but of course it is such as not to sacrifice those rights of freedom that stand against the background of the historical and constitutionally relevant dialectical relationship between freedom and authority. I believe that I can close here the words on the subject of limitation, even if I justify the time limit for the incompleteness of my speech, in the hope that I will also make a contribution on other issues, except, of course, to exceed the time limit to which I am entitled, in which case the President will interrupt me. The draft law before us deals with many other aspects, and it cannot be merely a prescription that is the only subject to be dealt with. We have solved the problem of the eternal judges, a question that few know: for those who do not have the ability to participate in the judgment, the provisions of the code of 1930 provided that they were in a condition of eternal judges. They were suspended subjects: they could not be judged because they were unable to participate in the judgment for the degradation of their mental conditions and at the same time they could not even be drained. So, they, for the rest of their lives, ended up being tied to an unsolved condition of fact. This is a problem which, in keeping with a note but ignored judgment of the Constitutional Court, we felt we had to resolve. We have dealt with a subject - the text was similarly constructed since the Chamber of Deputies' work - which was a real gap in the procedural system. In short, the prosecutor was given time limits that could be extended to carry out the investigations and then, between the conclusion of the investigations and the filing of the documents, there was a time limit that was not in any way proportionate: it was left to a completely discretionary appreciation by the prosecutor, in the sense that he was not obliged to deposit these documents immediately. This was a condition which led to a veritable offence on the rights of citizens, who at that point had the right to organize their defence. Well, this aspect has also been resolved by providing for a power of control by the general prosecutor, therefore no violation of the constitutional principles of autonomy and independence of the judiciary, because another magistrate, in the case of the exceedance of a time period, moreover extendable (therefore also a possible excess and burden of work of the proxy offices has been respected), at a certain point can intervene to say that these acts must be deposited. Mr President, I think I have passed the time allotted to me, and I apologise for that; there should be a lot of other things to be said, but I cannot do that. I conclude by stressing that the delegation in the area of penitentiary law constitutes a real progress on the implementation of Article 27 of the Constitution, which provides for the principle of the re-education of sentenced persons, expressly providing for a reference to the rights of sentenced persons. I have to say - and I shall finish, Mr President - that Arturo Rocco had spoken about it in Sassari in 1911 and then he had not spoken about it. It is implemented through this delegation not only a constitutional principle, but also an old ambition of what, at the time, began to be defined as an authoritarian state. In 1911, even before that authoritarian state, as defined, took hold, Arturo Rocco, later chairman of the ministerial commission that will introduce the penal code of 1930, had said that the condemned must have rights. I apologize for having entertained more than I had to and for announcing the favorable vote of the People's Area. [[Applause from Senators Rossi Luciano and Torrisi. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-785.ana.u33	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-785.ana.u34	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-785.ana.u35	MUSSINI (Mixed). Mr President, I am speaking on a measure which, having been submitted to the question of trust, will see the positions of the members of the Mixed Group disposed of according to their respective membership of the majority or opposition. Sorry because this is a measure within which there are two parts. One part concerns the revision of the penitentiary system, which has been long awaited and to which it has collaborated and which undoubtedly contains principles that can be totally shared, for a different management of the subject of prisons and for a different management of the prisoners (I will return shortly on this point). The other part, the one that changes the limitation and interception, which has called for most of the explanations of vote in this House, I believe that it would be very well resolved if justice were given all the means to be able to exercise its mandate effectively. All the rest concerns temporary solutions which cannot meet two different requirements: on the one hand, legal certainty and, on the other hand, the right to certainty of the conviction of the wrong party. I, however, now want to give priority to dealing, having also been called into question personally, with the issue of the Rems and the definitive and provisional safety measures; and I want to do so, albeit in a synthetic way, with due clarity, because unfortunately there has been bad information on this issue, even very instrumental. The subject was raised with an amendment calling for a specific regulation of the provisional application of security measures which took into account the actual overcoming of psychiatric hospitals and the setting up of the new Rems, in the light of the principles set out in Article 12 of the measure. The answer to this amendment was given by one of the rapporteurs with what was then revealed to be the suggestion determined mainly by the front of the Health Commission which, instead of considering the need for this specific regulation, provided with the request of an exclusive destination to the Rems of those who were subject to definitive security measures, while all the other subjects were assigned to the sections of the penitentiary institutions. I think this topic is very relevant and I would like to take up some passages of an article published on the website Quotidianosanità.it, on which unfortunately it was kept in a visible position only for about twenty minutes. I am talking about a site of which, instead, a very large part has been granted to Senators De Biasi and Dirindin and to the committee called StopOPG. I would like to take up a few passages of the text on which I am completely present. The article states that the goal of closing the OPGs is pre-emptive to provide adequate mental health to people with mental illness in terms of safety and to prisoners, as required by the law. That is, if you really want to interpret in a civil sense the spirit of the measure, the closure of the OPGs is only the preliminary step to treat in the same way all the mentally ill offenders and to provide authentic psychiatric assistance to the prisoners. For this reason, when Mr Cucca presented this amendment with this exclusive destination, I asked him where they would put the others; he replied that they would be put in prisons; I asked who would provide the cure and he replied that it was not known. That is the point, in the sense that today the sections of the penitentiary institutions do not yet have all the requirements to ensure adequate care with certainty. The solution, which was also discussed for a long time yesterday during the general discussion, is then a cynical reasoning which considers the spending needs exclusively, as finally emerged yesterday. The problem is that since there is not enough money to provide the benefits to which these are entitled, however, are the last of the last, we must find solutions that mystify the reality and free the realization of the Rems from health care to everyone. In conclusion, Mr President, we cannot tackle the problem of the Rems without addressing the problem of prison and we cannot tackle the latter without taking into account the evaluation of psychiatric and psychological activity in the prison environment. With this delegation the government will be able and will have to address the issue of the Rems, linking it to mental health in prison and I am very proud that this goal has been achieved. I would also like to point out that the vote by myself and my colleagues in the Commission on justice, in the presence of Minister Orlando, has been aware of the fact that the mentally ill interned, whether in permanent or temporary security measures, are all entitled to adequate assistance, they all have it. We wanted to recognise this right and with the delegation under consideration, the Government was given the opportunity to work in that direction.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-785.ana.u36	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-785.ana.u37	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-785.ana.u38	GIARRUSSO (M5S). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the 5 Star Movement will vote against confidence, because the measure under discussion is very serious. In the last few months of last year, in the Justice Commission, suddenly we see the Government coming (with a great amount of force: the Minister accompanied the Undersecretary staying with him until late at night), with an important amendment, which is the real reason why it is now being brought to the Chamber, with confidence, this measure. What worried the government at that time, a few months ago? The intercepts, but not all of them. Suddenly, the focus of the problem of justice reform was computer intercepts, those made through software programs. But why, suddenly, a few months ago? If we look at the time scan, now we know that at that time someone warned the suspects of this country's biggest investigation into the Consip contract to be spied on by those systems! [[Applause from the M5S Group]] The time interval is exactly that per day! While someone warned the suspects, someone else prepared the parliamentary response to the judicial initiatives. Because this infamous measure provides for the material impossibility of preparing computer interceptions for all crimes, excluding some crime of mafia; even - think - for international drug trafficking. You understand, then, how far the maximum level of protection of this collusive political caste has gone. To what extent they're compromised. Precisely on time: news of the investigation comes out, it is going to overwhelm the system, immediately the political response is to bring the measure to the Chamber with confidence. Well, that won't save your majority and your party, because people have understood, lords of the Democratic Party and the Government, what is behind these maneuvers. It's very clear. But there is more, and better in this provision. You want to liquidate the high-security prison circuit and it's a thing of absolute gravity in this country. And then there are miserable, really miserable measures. Determining the processibility of some of the most hateful offenses, which affect the last, is an infamy to which you must answer. The same citizens vexed by criminals, whom you have released with the decree empty prisons and made operational by binding their hands to the judiciary and the Forces of the Order, cannot be protected because they will be afraid of having to denounce their own torturers. You place the unarmed citizens of this country once again in the hands of their torturers. Shame! You're ruthless! [[Applause from the M5S Group]] Talk about the lengths of the process; I will remind you then of the lengths that you entered into the trial on purpose. A true Way of the Cross: extension of investigations, decisions on precautionary requests, recourse to review, judgment of Cassation on caution, new judgment of referral on caution, closure of investigations, notification pursuant to Article 415- bis of the Code of Criminal Procedure, preliminary hearing. A Way of the Cross: and still the process has not begun. And come over here and talk about the trial. Shame on you! Shame on you! Liars! [[Applause from the M5S Group]] You, law technicians (and there are some here), know very well what I'm talking about. You add another to this Way of the Cross: the terms for investigation. Of course, in three months what investigations can be made? The investigation of some poor Christ to be put in jail. And instead on white collars, on who takes foreign bribes on foreign, when it takes an international rogatory that takes months, what will happen to these investigations? You know that, because this is your goal: to paralyze the investigation. We, as Five Star Movement, will report this here and out of these classrooms. We will discover, before the eyes of the Italians, your true face, a shameful face, colleagues, of people who defend themselves from the judiciary with these weapons, with those you have, with those who have carelessly entrusted you with unwitting citizens to vote on a criminal political class. We will vote against this confidence, convincedly, and we would also vote against the measure. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-785.ana.u39	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-785.ana.u40	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-785.ana.u41	CALIENDO (FI-PdL XVII). Mr President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, this measure is emblematic of the relationship between Parliament and the Government in this parliamentary term; but I would say more: between majority and opposition. You see, Minister Finocchiaro, you have finally welcomed some ideas of the center-right. When, a few months ago, there was a debate in this House about increasing the penalties for certain crimes against property (theft, robbery), we stressed that this was wrong and that it was right to increase the minimum penalty, but not the maximum penalty. Finally, with this measure, we welcome what we had done. But obviously the level of insecurity in the country has increased, because those norms, combined with those of the measure emptycarceri, have led to the almost impunity of the theft. I would very much like you, the new Minister for relations with Parliament, to take into account the mistake that has been made in the matter of drug dealing, especially as regards the small deal, taking into account the latest investigation in Milan and what has come out at the level of 14 or 15-year-olds. However, I must acknowledge that you, with Minister Orlando, have taken into account, in extending the maxi mum amendment, two issues, one raised by Senator Palma, in connection with the assault of one of the crimes against the heritage, and the other with the agenda of Senator Mandelli, as regards the timing of the delegation law on interceptions. Although there had not been a vote by the Commission or amendments by the rapporteurs, you have corrected (and I must give you credit for that), even if I imagine, if a center-right government had done so, what the cries of sorrow would have been to say that our country had violated the constitutional rules. Let's go to trial. You see, Minister, two concepts distinguish us, not with you, but with your majority. We believe that in the trial there must be rules which aim to guarantee impartiality, that is, the impartial guarantee that belongs to the jurisdiction, because one must arrive at a sentence of absolution or condemnation beyond any reasonable doubt. Well, these rules apply to us both to absolution and condemnation, while many times, on the part of the majority, we tend to build a trial as aimed at condemnation, which leads the president of the National Association of Judges to even say that, when he is proclaimed an innocent, he is not an innocent but one who has got away with it. This denounces a mentality and a way of reasoning in procedural terms completely wrong with respect to the Constitution. [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII]] What did we try to do? Let's start at the beginning of the trial. In this House, with you, we have established that there are delays in registering the crime report and that sometimes there are offences other than those contested, even with fantasy names. Compared to this we had proposed that there should be a review by the judge for the purpose of determining the time when the crime report should be registered. However, this proposal has not been accepted. So we are faced with crazy situations. Reasoning in procedural terms means that we want a process in line with the constitutional precept of reasonable duration and that it is an effective guarantee. Then there may be errors, due to the poor interpretation of the rules, as happened in the Berlusconi process. Mr Minister, you know better than I that, after ten months, the Court of Cassation has ruled that the principles of law established in that judgment are contrary to its constant orientation, with the result that, before and after Berlusconi, everyone has been acquitted of that behaviour. [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII]] What is Parliament's position? We have a responsibility. You can't be Pontius Pilate, or say "It's the law that forces us to do so." We should consider together whether the rules approved in 2012 are really such as to ensure parliamentary control over judicial activity. I now come to the subject of the prescription. How can we continue to reason and debate, both in the Commission and in this House, each supporting his argument and without any comparison, or at least a reply, in order to deepen the problem? The government does not always provide us with the statistical data necessary for a thorough evaluation of the phenomenon. Before discussing the prescription and what has been done in the Commission, we should ask ourselves about the widespread vulgate: is it true that after the so-called ex-Cirielli law, the number of prescribed processes has increased? That's not true. Minister, you know better than I that the diagram provided by the Ministry of Justice indicates that the prescribed trials were 254,000 in 2004 and 112,000 in 2012, with an increase of 10,000 in 2013 and a further decrease in 2015. So, that law that reduced the limitation periods, determined an activity of judges and prosecutors. Even on television, Minister Orlando recalls that in many Italian judicial offices the number of crimes prescribed is almost zero, while in others the percentage reaches even 30 percent. Is this an effect of the rule, or is there an area of de-responsibility of some magistrates that is more easily achieved especially in large offices? Why is the number of offences prescribed in medium-sized offices lower than in large offices? Mr. Minister, I don't have time to read all the data, but you know it better than I do. In the book published a few years ago by Luciano Violante already highlighted this aspect, which concerns not the South or the North, but all areas of the country. Consideration should also be given to the reform of the districts which has led to the concentration and increase of the number of judges in some judicial offices, with the result that the number of prescribed offences has increased. During the current parliamentary term we have increased the penalties in a crazy way (I am thinking of crimes against the public administration, the case of road murder and more). Minister, do you think it would take twenty-two-twenty-three years for a trial to take place? Today we increase the three-year deadline. Excuse me: do we realize what is the shame of a country, which is inspired by democratic principles and which then keeps open a trial for twenty-three or twenty-four years? This is crazy! What happens if, after 23 or 24 years, the guy gets acquitted? It's a serious matter. The legislation in question is similar to that which guarantees three months plus three months, after the completion of the time limits for investigations, when only the request for filing or referral to court must be made. Is it not enough a hundred and twenty days, or even a hundred and eighty days, with the extension? Are you kidding me? That's crazy. The measure under consideration seems to be a dress by Harlequin, made to guarantee some people, rather than affecting the causes that, in some judicial offices, have determined the prescription. In fact, we are going to increase the time, in order to guarantee further possibilities for intervention to those who have not worked and who do not comply with the procedural deadlines. It's a revenge cries out! Mr President, I am still passionate about the will and ability of, for example, Minister Finocchiaro to seek concrete answers to the country's needs and to guarantee its rights. I cannot accept, however, that, in the light of the objections I have raised in the Commission concerning the possibility of a different interpretation from that intended, as regards Senator Mussini's amendment, which has just been mentioned, on psychiatric hospitals, there has been no response, either from the majority or from the rapporteurs. Yesterday, however, I listened to a rapporteur - who, however, in intervening in that capacity seemed rather strange - namely Senator Casson, who shot zero on this rule for the same reasons that I myself had put forward and who declared his vote against the measure, because of the fact that he was a technician. Minister, we too are technical, but the technical being means that we do not have to change our opinion because we belong to a new political group. Instead, we are called to reason in terms that take into account the interests and rights of citizens, regardless of what concerns Forza Italia or the Democratic Party. For these reasons, the Forza Italia Group, strong in its history, will vote against this measure and not because it is a guarantee: we are not interested in guaranteeing, but we are interested that the equal dignity of citizens is protected before the law and that everyone is judged by an impartial judge. 11:14 a.m. (Follows CALIENDO). Mr Grasso - whom I welcome - you should also reflect, together with me and other colleagues, on the reasons why certain facts are taking place. The debate should be encouraged and, even in the Commission, after the general debate, a reply and the possibility of discussing some of the proposals that emerge should be allowed, because otherwise we will not be able to give concrete answers. Otherwise everyone will simply state their position, while the vote of confidence will prevent us from arguing. [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-785.ana.u42	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-785.ana.u43	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-785.ana.u44	FILIPPIN (PD). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, senators and senators, members of the Government, the Democratic Party will vote firmly on the government's confidence in the law of reform of the criminal process. This is not a ritual phrase, but it responds to the DNA of our party and its mission, which is to modernise, change and innovate the country, starting with its justice system. The Government and the Minister of Justice Andrea Orlando have been dedicated to this since the first moment of its establishment. The organisation and administration of justice have been and continue to be the ground of a bitter political confrontation - we have also heard a few words in this House - which for a long time prevented the necessary reforms to ensure the efficiency of a fundamental service for the life of our country. The more we have discussed and clashed over these years, the more we have allowed its most serious dysfunctions to become chronic ills and the more the country has spent it. Justice has become for our citizens and for our businesses not the place to find protection and care for their rights, not the dimension where even the weakest among the citizens could find shelter from the abuses of the strongest, not the power able to punish those who had been guilty of serious crimes, but the symbol of a Way of the Cross to keep as far away as possible. It was necessary to change, and it was done. The measure that we are voting on today and that provides for changes to the penal code, the code of criminal procedure and the penal order is complex, it is articulated, it is organic, but it is above all the last part of a full intervention, carried out over the last three years, on criminal justice, both substantive and procedural. When the other two system reforms, namely the civil process and bankruptcy law, are also approved, to the attention of this branch of Parliament, well, the change and modernisation of our justice system will finally have legs to walk with. The changes introduced with this bill are important and significant and the numbers highlight the complexity: 40 articles, divided into five titles, in turn divided into several chapters. Of course, the objective pursued by this reform cannot be the achievement of the perfection of the system and the solution of all the problems that afflict it, but it is the most realistic one to draw, in the given conditions, a set of rules that are effective, that try to restore efficiency to justice, confidence to the citizens, serenity to the same operators, and that give to all the guarantees due, according to the norms of a constitutional state of law; not because Europe asks us - even if it asks us - but because the Italians ask for it, because the citizens ask for certainty of the penalty, an effective and efficient justice, rapid process and punishment of the guilty. The bill touches in depth the mechanisms that govern the entire system, also involving an accurate update of the warranty framework in favor of the defendant. There is provision for the extinction of offences brought against them by means of remedial conduct, so that the damage is repaired before the debate begins, with the elimination of the consequences of the crime: a system measure in favour of the victims of the crime in order to obtain compensation without having to wait infinite times. In addition, a delegation to the Government is provided to extend the procedure to be heard also for offences that produce minor offenses, with the exception of appropriate exceptions. If our system provides for the mandatory prosecution, the seriousness and social alarm caused by crimes between them is equally different and different must also be the priority of the justice machine. In this regard, there is a decisive intervention on the penalties provided for certain offences which give rise to particular social alarm. In particular, Article 3 intervenes on the crime of political-mafia electoral exchange as referred to in Article 416-b of the Criminal Code, invoking the sanctioning framework. Do we want to remind him or not that it was this legislature and the Democratic Party first, with Law No 62 of 17 April 2014, to modify the crime of political-mafia electoral exchange, intervening on the side of the incriminated conducts, greatly expanding them? [[Applause from the PD Group. Comments of Senator Endrizzi]] Do we want to remind him or not that in this parliamentary term the range of punishable facts has been extended, including the acceptance of the promise of votes in exchange for the promise or the delivery, as well as money, also of other use? If before the conduct referred to in Article 416-b were punished with the sentence of imprisonment from four to ten years, the bill that we vote today intervenes again sanctioning the crime in question with the penalty of imprisonment from six to twelve years. In this way we complete the many interventions made in the last two years to adapt the criminal system to the changed social and criminal reality. It is in this legislature and thanks to the Democratic Party that the crime of self-cycling has been introduced; it is in this legislature and thanks to the Democratic Party that the norm on fake in the budget has been revised [[Applause from the PD Group]] , that sanctions have been tightened for the crime of association to criminals of the mafia and for the most serious crimes against the public administration. It is in this legislature and thanks to the Democratic Party that the powers of the DAC have been strengthened to combat corruption effectively. But it's not enough. We intervened on the sanctioning framework of the crime of theft at home and of sniper, raising the minimum edittale of the prison sentence (from the current one year to three years). We have spoken on Article 625 of the Criminal Code, which lists the aggravating circumstances, for which the crime of theft is punished with the penalty of imprisonment from one to six years old, harshening the sanctioning framework, with the penalty of imprisonment from two to six years. We have intervened on the crime of robbery referred to in Article 628 of the Criminal Code, of which we have raised the edittal limits of both the prison sentence and the pecuniary one. This is the message to restore trust and serenity to our citizens: those who enter your homes to steal or rob you will be severely punished and will go to prison for real. [[Applause from the PD Group]] They are not just crimes against the heritage; they are crimes against the tranquillity and serenity of the person, his home and his affections. The state is there and justice as well. New professionalism will enter the system: in the next two years a thousand new magistrates will enter the judicial offices at the outcome of the competitions already completed. [[Applause from the PD Group]] The double, about 2,000, will instead be chancellors and administrative staff. The state is there. On the subject of the prescription and, more particularly, of the institution of the suspension of the prescription referred to in Article 159 of the Criminal Code (very delicate topic and even today we have talked about this), I believe that there has been a balance between the need to ensure to the jurisdiction time appropriate to the conduct of the activities of ascertaining the facts of crime and that of guaranteeing the reasonable duration of the trial, preserving to the limitation its function as a stimulus to a definition of the criminal processes in times not too extensive. No more alibi! Every operator of the law must do his part by ensuring adequate time to ascertain the crime, but equally adequate time for the conduct of the trials. Innocent or guilty, the defendant has the right to know and to know soon. Let me remind you here: every person is innocent until the final sentence of conviction. I understand that someone dreams of returning to Place de la Révolution, maybe virtual and via the web, where to rejoice to every head that madam the guillotine rolls in the basket. [[Applause from the PD Group]] But this is not our idea of justice, of legal civilization, of social security and, fortunately, we no longer live in 1793. There are numerous and significant procedural interventions that have brought significant innovations and modernisations to the entire system of criminal proceedings. The Government will have the delegation for the reform of the procedure regime for certain crimes, for the reordering of certain sectors of the penal code and for the revision of the discipline of the judicial record. There will be interventions in the matter of the defendant's irreversible inability to participate in the trial, the discipline of preliminary investigations and the filing process, special rituals, the preliminary hearing, the instruction of the court and the structure of the judgment of merit. The appeals will be simplified, the appeal grounds will be more rigorous, there will be a deflective effect on appeals in cassation. This, on the other hand, is the overall meaning of the reform: to tighten and specify the grounds for appeal, to spell out more punctuality the requirements of the judgment in order to facilitate appeals; to introduce the possibility of an agreement on the grounds of appeal (with the exception of more serious offences, such as terrorism, mob association, sexual offences and habitual and professional criminals); to increase the financial penalties in case of inadmissibility of appeals; to simplify the discipline of inadmissibility for formal defects. It is then provided that, in the case of "double compliance" of acquittal, the appeal for cassation can be brought only for violation of law. There is no time to deal with all the other changes that have been introduced into this bill, but I want to touch one in particular. Article 35 provides for the reform of the criminal prosecution in the field of interceptions, which will not at all be affected as an investigative instrument, but which need regulation for their dissemination. Subject to the needs of the investigation, special care must be taken to protect the confidentiality of communications and conversations of persons who are only occasionally involved in the proceedings. What are we really interested in? Discover the criminal facts, spot the culprits, or look from the lock hole like so many morbid voyeurs? Finally, both the extension of distance trials and the delegation of the reform of the penitentiary system are provided for in the draft law. It is important, the delegation of reform of the penitentiary order. The guidelines within which it is intended to operate are the simplification of procedures, the revision of the conditions for access to alternative measures, in order to facilitate the use of alternative measures and instead exclude access for cases of exceptional seriousness and danger. At the same time, those automatisms and preclusions that prevented the full individualization of reeducational treatment and the enhancement of work as an essential tool for effective social reintegration are eliminated. However, I cannot allow the question of Residences for the implementation of the health security measure (REMS) to go away in silence. In the implementation of the delegation, the Government will have to take into account the dictates of Law 81, so as to leave to the REMS the role that is their own and to provide a plan for mental health in prisons. The Democratic Party respects pluralism, but personal attacks are something else and therefore on a personal basis, but on behalf of the Group, I express my solidarity with Senator De Biasi. [[Applause from the PD Group.]] In recent days someone has asked when the reform of justice will have a conclusion. The rapporteur's answer has never been. Never. Because justice is not an immovable monolithic block. It is alive, it changes, it adapts, it adapts to changed values, to a complex reality in continuous evolution. Our task is to keep up and that is what we do with this text today. That is why I am announcing the vote in favour of the Democratic Party Group. [[Applause from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-785.ana.u45	On behalf of the Assembly, I greet the teachers and students of the Scientific High School "Niccolò Copernico" in Prato, who are attending our work. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-785.ana.u46	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote in dissent from my Group.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-785.ana.u47	I take note of that and give you the floor.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-785.ana.u48	DI BIAGIO (AP (Ncd-CpE)). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I take the floor briefly to express my disagreement with my Group's views on this measure. I join in this with the elements of legitimate criticism raised by my fellow Members and which call for a paradox which cannot be overlooked by labeling it as a non-sharing of a legislative provision, namely the maintenance of the current time-frames of the courts combined with a dangerous extension of the limitation periods, the damages of which are already before everyone's eyes. I think it is clear to everyone that the Italian judicial system already has its obvious limitations, which absolutely are not exceeded by this measure, indeed they are also amplified. I myself, like many of you, have been confronted with a judicial affair in which the investigation alone lasted three years and on which my reference was filed before the initiation of the proceedings. I wonder if we could not get to this closure more quickly. How many honest citizens still have to suffer the weight of long and complex proceedings before they see their legitimate rights recognised? The reasonable duration of the trial, which is the basis of a rule of law, now unfortunately becomes an option. It is clear and I share the indignation of my fellow Members at the prescriptions on dramatic events here mentioned, among all the dramatic limitation of the crime of violence against children that I have mentioned in recent days, but on this front what would be the solution offered by the measure under consideration? I do not think that we should extend the requirement, in fact common sense would impose instead of speeding up the process. Among other things, with regard to the outcome of this measure, the spectrum of the elections seems to be rising from many quarters. Personally, unlike someone, I have no fear of going to the vote today or tomorrow: at the same time, however, I know that the failure of trust in the government at this time would create a huge discomfort to the country. In a delicate period, which therefore imposes responsibility and pragmatism only and exclusively because of this sense of the institutions, I will vote for the Government, although I do not share the measure in title and strongly reaffirm the need to correct its limits. That, too, is dissent.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-785.ana.u49	I refer to the vote on amendment 1,900 (correct text), tabled by the Government, entirely replacing the articles of the bill n. 2067-1844-2032-176-209-286-299-381-382-384-385-386-387-389-468-581-597-609-614-700-708-799-10081113-1456-1587-1681-1682-1684-1693-1713-1824-1905-1921-1922-2103-2295-2457, on the approval of which the Government raised the question of trust. Pursuant to Rule 94, second paragraph, of the Constitution and pursuant to Rule 161, paragraph 1, of the Rules of Procedure, the vote on the matter of trust will take place by roll-call vote. Each senator called by the Senator Secretary will have to vote before the Presidency. The senators for trust will answer yes; the opposing senators will answer no; the senators who intend to abstain will speak accordingly. They asked to vote first, and I granted it, Senators Napolitano and Pinotti. I urge the Senator Secretary to proceed to the appeal of these senators. (The above-mentioned senators respond to the appeal.) I now draw by lot the name of the senator from whom the roll call will begin. (The name of Senator Bertacco is drawn by lot.) I invite the Senator Secretary to proceed with the appeal, starting with Senator Bertacco. BERGER, secretary, makes the appeal. The senators answered: Aiello, Albano, Albertini, Angioni, Anitori, Astorre Pettista, Bencini, Bertuzzi, White, Bianconi, Bondi, Borioli, Broglia, Buemi Caleo, Cantini, Capacchione, Cardinals, Casino, Cattaneo, Chiti, Cirinnà, Cocincich, Collina, Colucci, Conte, Corsini, Cuomo D'Adda, Dalla Tor, Dalla Zuanna, D'Ascola, De Biasi, Del Barba, Della Vedova, Di Biagio, Di Giacomo, Fincchiaro, Finnaro, Fornaro, Fravezzi Gatti, Fasili Fabbari, Fassiolo, Fatorini, Favero, Fedeli, Ferrara Elena, Fincchiaro, Finsore, Finsoro, Fornaro, Fravezzi, Franti, Françani, Françani, Fani, Fani, Fani, Fani, Faci, Faci, Faci, Faci, Faciolti, Faci, Faci, Faci, Faci, Faci, Faci, Faci, Fadi, Faci, Faci, Faci, Faci, Faci, Faci, Faci, Faci, Faci, Faci, Faci, Faci, Faci, Faci, Faci, Faci, Faci, Faci, Faci, Faci, Faci, Faci, Faci, Faci, Faci, Faci, Faci, Faci, F. The senators: Airola, Alicata, Amoruso, Aracri, Arrigoni, Auricchio, Azzollini Barani, Barozzino, Bernini, Bertacco, Bertorotta, Bignami, Blund, Bocca, Boccardi, Bocchino, Bonfrisco, Bottici, Bruni, Buccarella, Comaroli, Compagna, Consiglio, Conti, Cotti, Crimi D'Alì, D'Ambrosio Lettieri, D'Anna, De Cristofaro, De Petris, De Pin, De Siano, Di Maggio Endrizzi Falanga, Fasano, Ferrara Mario, Floris Gaetti, Galmberti, Ghedini, De Cristofaro, Giarrusso, De Pin, Giovano Levola, Girzzi Falanga, Ferrara Mario, Floris Gaetti The senators are abstaining: Fucksia. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I declare the vote closed and invite the Secretary Senators to proceed with the counting of votes. (Secretary Senators proceed to count votes).
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-785.ana.u50	On behalf of the Assembly, I greet the teachers and students of the Institute of Higher Education (Aldo Moro) in Montesarchio, in the province of Benevento, who are attending our work. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-785.ana.u51	I declare the result of the roll-call vote by appeal of amendment 1,900 (correct text), presented by the Government, entirely replacing the articles of the bill n. 2067-1844-2032-176-209-286-299-381-382-384-385-386-389-468-581-597-609-614-700-708-709-10081113-1456-1587-1681-1682-1684-1693-1713-1824-1905-1921-1922-2103-2295-2457, on the approval of which the Government raised the question of trust: [[Senators present 280 Senators voting 278 Majority 140 Favorable 156 Contrari 121 Absent 1]] The Senate approves. All amendments and agendas submitted to draft law No 2067-1844-2032-176-209-286-299-381-382-384-385-386-387-389-468-581-597-609-614-700-708-1113-1456-1587-1681-1682-1684-1693-1713-1824-1905-1921-1922-2103-2295-2457 are therefore withdrawn or precluded.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-785.ana.u52	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-785.ana.u53	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-785.ana.u54	(at 12.20 a.m.) AMIDEI (FI-PdL XVII). Madam President, I am taking the floor to make a very small budget, which I shall have the opportunity to look into in the next part-sessions in relation to questions and questions that have not been answered for a very long time, to the point that the legislature is coming to an end and probably two thirds of the questions and questions put forward will remain unanswered. This fact will remain on the conscience of those who have not done their duty, have not responded to the citizens and will therefore have to assume this responsibility if they feel it. [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII and Senator Airola.]] I would like to take this opportunity, given the recent events, to urge the debate in this House on my draft law on self-defence. They are known to all the facts of the last months: last but not least there is what concerns Mario Cattaneo. Do we still have to wait a long time, Madam President and colleagues? How unheard of are so many bills that go in this direction and are an expression of the will of the citizens? Do we still have to wait for many injustices to give answers to these families who are attacked and find themselves in the need to respond? President, I would like your attention. Madam President, I'm here. Would you be kind enough to listen to me? I'm not talking about banality. [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII]] I am talking about a bill on defence that concerns all Italian families and people who are guilty without being properly judged because there is a vacuum on the part of the Government that does not give answers to the many bills on self-defense. When will you decide to bring these bills to the attention of the Assembly, including mine, Act of Senate 2341, which I have been presenting for about a year? A bill that fits perfectly with the dynamics of the fact that it hit Mr. Cattaneo's family. Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, pay attention to the real problems of Italian families. [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-785.ana.u55	Senator Amidei, I apologize for the moment of distraction. You will also have to tell your Parent Company to propose it to the Conference of Leaders because this issue is of great importance, especially in these days.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-785.ana.u56	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-785.ana.u57	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-785.ana.u58	GIROTTO (M5S). Madam President, since we were born and until we died, we have been buying a lot of products and services. We know that most of these products and services are provided by very few large multinationals. The organized large distribution (GDO) expression you all know. It may be less well known to the vast majority of citizens, but we know that there are ten large-scale organized distribution groups that have the world's oligopoly and very often do not behave properly. We do not know that for years the consumer associations have been doing very in-depth analyses and environmentalists because, very often, in the production and marketing chain, the environment and the human rights of workers are not being respected. We now have the opportunity to have an alternative, represented by fair trade, which, as the term itself says, completely subverts the principle of extreme profit that large multinationals have and, instead, works with a principle of solidarity and justice for the entire production and trade chain. It is a small flower, which was born and which in Italy we can help to grow better. In the Chamber of Deputies we adopted a draft law which was created with great consultation of the whole Parliament and, in fact, was adopted in the Chamber virtually unanimously. He's been at our house for several months now, since mid-November. It has already been more than three months since the government has to table the new amendments in order to accept some criticisms from the European Union. We are firm because the Government does not want to table these amendments of adaptation to the remarks that are being made to us. I address the Government, although it is not, asking whether it wants to miss one of the few opportunities to be a good figure in front of citizens and civil society to give a minimum of help to fair trade, which is one of the few opportunities that we have to get away from these big multinationals. I would urge him not to miss this opportunity, so as soon as possible to table these amendments that we are waiting for in the Commission, so that this Fair Trade Act can be put into practice. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-785.ana.u59	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-785.ana.u60	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-785.ana.u61	PUGLIA (M5S). Madam President, working without a salary is a bit like slavery, because slaves worked without compensation. Fortunately, however, the world has changed and slavery has become a crime. Alongside this reality of the past, however, alas, there are many small realities today that in a certain sense make us more than taste - this term is normally used in a positive sense - feel the smell of this very bad practice of the past. Today, when a worker does not receive his salary, what should he do? There are those who say that he must remain silent and go on like this because if he protests and goes to the square he also annoys and if maybe the State has to pay this worker, it is even more annoying. There are some institutional and political personalities who, when they see that these workers, who work without receiving the salary, go to the streets to protest, even complain. What, then, does the worker have to do when he fails to pay for the sleeper or the salami maker? What do you have to do if you don't protest? I believe, Madam President, that the protest is always right, especially when it comes to salaries. Several cases come to mind and this is happening in Naples even with public transport companies (so it is the State that delays payments). The same thing happens in those companies that may have the concession of public contracts and cannot pay the workers, because in turn the state does not pay them. We must, in my opinion and in my Group, find a solution to prevent work from being paid on time, because we cannot allow the protagonists of the real economy, the small traders and the many people who break their backs every day to go to work, to not arrive at the end of the month and not to have a decent and normal life. Therefore, Madam President, I also urge this institution to find a definitive solution to eradicate the practice of non-payment of salaries, because it is going to harm many Italian families and to block the real economy of our country. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-785.ana.u62	The motions, questions and questions received by the Presidency will be published in Annex B to today's report. I recall that the Senate will return to public session today, at 3.30 p.m., on the same agenda. The sitting was closed at 12.28 a.m.
