ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-906.ana.u1	The sitting is open (9:34 a.m.). The Minutes shall be read. Mr Amati, secretary, read the Minutes of the sitting of the previous day. PRESIDENT. - The debate is Since there were no comments, the Minutes were approved.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-906.ana.u2	The list of senators on leave and absent on assignment received from the Senate, as well as further communications to the Assembly, will be published in Annex B to today's Minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-906.ana.u3	I would warn you that qualified votes can be taken in the course of today's sitting by electronic means. Therefore, from this moment the period of 20 minutes from the notice provided for in Article 119, paragraph 1, of the Regulation (9:37 hours) begins.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-906.ana.u4	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-906.ana.u5	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-906.ana.u6	ENDRIZZI (M5S). Mr President, I am pleased that on television we can highlight a fundamental fact. Yesterday we took note, at least here, of a crucial fact, namely a change of majority, since in the successive votes of confidence that have been ringed as a sad litany we have seen a majority of one parliamentary group and another. The architectures and conditions have changed, at a fundamental moment for the country as on the eve of the draft budget law, a bill that the Government has not yet submitted, in violation of the requirements of the accounting law. Well, at this crucial moment for so many families and businesses we are witnessing a majority change which, from our point of view, should be immediately formalized to the President of the Republic. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-906.ana.u7	It seems to me that this has already been done by the Art.1-MDP Group. ENDRIZZI (M5S). It should be the interest of the majority to show that this change is not peaceful. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator Endrizzi, these are not issues on the order of business, but on relations between Parliament and the majority. [[Senator Santangelo's protests.]] MARTON (M5S). But trust has just been voted on! PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator Endrizzi, you can do this in the course of your explanations of vote. ENDRIZZI (M5S). You're cheating Italians with a fake majority and a fake opposition! We ask you to be transparent before the Italians who see what is happening. SANTANGELO (M5S). The majority has changed, President! PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator Endrizzi, I gave you room to express your views. [[Senator Endrizzi's comments.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-906.ana.u8	The next item is the continuation of the debate on draft law Nos. 2941, already approved by the Chamber of Deputies in a text resulting from the unification of the draft own-initiative law of Toninelli and others; Giachetti; Pisicchio; Lauricella; Locatelli and others; Orphini; Hope; Menorello and others; Wolves and Misuraca; Vargiu and Matarrese; Nicoletti and others; Parisi and Abrignani; Dellai and others; Lauricella; Cuperlo; Toninelli and others; Rigoni; Martella; Invernizzi and others; Valiante and others; Turco and others; Meloni Marco; La Russa and others; D'Attorre e altri; Forty; Menorello and others; Brunetta and others; Wolves and Misuraca; Constantine and others; Pisicchio; Fragomeli and others, 2621, 2726, 2749, 2762, 2793, 2843, 2876, 2905, 2911 and 2938. I recall that yesterday's sitting concluded the examination of the articles of bill No 2941, in the text approved by the House of Deputies. I am aware that direct television broadcasting is in progress and I call on colleagues to respect the time allocated. [[Senator Endrizzi points out that he wants to intervene.]] Senator Endrizzi, during the explanations of vote you will be able to make all the considerations of merit. MARTON (M5S). That's not true! PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. These are considerations of substance, not on the order of business. SANTANGELO (M5S). The majority has changed! PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I get that. The President of the Republic has already been informed. [[Senator Santangelo's comments]] It has nothing to do with the presidency of the Senate, which goes on with the agenda. [[Senator Endrizzi points out that he wants to intervene.]] I would point out to you that you are delaying what you have requested, namely the television directive. This will result in the impossibility of bringing in all persons, as it is correct that they are entitled to do, and all groups during the time set for direct action. I'd like to point this out. You, as the Holding Company, can make statements on the order of business, but let us proceed, as you yourself requested, with the explanations of vote on live television. Then you'll have every chance to talk. SANTANGELO (M5S). Let him talk! CARDINALI (PD). Stop! ENDRIZZI (M5S). You've turned the work schedule into a schedule! PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator Endrizzi, you have no power to speak.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-906.ana.u9	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-906.ana.u10	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-906.ana.u11	BIGNAMI (Misto-MovX). Mr President, Senators, do you remember the reform of politics and public life that Bersani proposed in 2013 with which you were elected? I refer in particular to two points: the law on parties, with regard to internal democracy, ethical codes, access to nominations and funding, and the electoral law with double turn. None of this has happened. After five years of institutional and democratic failures, the internal democracy of the parties does not exist in this House; on the contrary, it is opposed by unspeakable practices and manoeuvres. What you are about to approve is clearly unconstitutional, even this time. The only purpose is to maintain the status quo of your kneeling organizations at the will of a few. The PD proposal is denied by the facts in its intentions. For many it will be a cause of regret, remorse and other reimbursement. Comfort yourselves. Senators boni viri, Senatus mala bestia. According to Article 48 of the Constitution: "The vote is personal and equal, free and secret." The exercise of that vote, which you will now implement by turning it upside down, is not equal because the fate of that vote is not equal if it is given in different contexts and is not free, and therefore not democratic, because four party leaders will tell everyone who to vote. Erga omnes electoral law? Terga omnes, rather! I shall vote continuously with my colleagues Mussini, Simeoni and Vacciano. Stop doing the worst things in the name of governability! I conclude by saying that governability is certain only in the monarchy, in democracy is not given by electoral law but exclusively by the political capacity to converge, with mediation, dialogue and confrontation, towards the needs of a country and not towards yours. [[Applause from the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, Mr Mussini and Mr Simeoni.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-906.ana.u12	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-906.ana.u13	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-906.ana.u14	REPETTI (Misto-IPL). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, these days we have heard a great deal about it, but I believe that with the adoption of this electoral law, Parliament is taking an act of responsibility towards the country today. It is not a perfect electoral law, but after the win of the no in the referendum, this was the only possible agreement with the broadest possible consensus. Discussing trust or not is, therefore, pure hypocrisy because, a few months after the end of the legislature, if you really want to avoid the period of voting with two different systems in the two Chambers, which would throw the country into chaos, this is what you have to do. We all know that with Italicum and constitutional reform Italians could really have chosen from whom to be governed, also giving life to a simpler and more efficient system of government. It was a huge mistake to reject constitutional reform, just as we know that the proportional system in which we are starting looks - alas - more to the past than to the future. Although, wanting to say it all and having to be honest, certain heterogeneous coalitions, encouraged by the majority systems and born only to win the elections, have not given much proof of government. So this law is the best solution to avoid the worst and we have a duty to approve it, putting aside unnecessary controversy. After all, Italy's future is not played by the electoral law: Italy's future is played on the programmes of political forces. Finally, Mr President, I am not afraid of the possible formation of governments of national unity in the next parliamentary term, a bit because throughout Europe this formula is now on the agenda, a bit because today the same fragmentation of Italian public opinion, perhaps in this particular historical phase, calls for coalition governments, but I hope they are formed by forces convincedly pro-European to curb the dangerous populist wave that we have today throughout Europe. In this spirit, I am confident that I will vote in favour of this measure. [[Applause from the PD Group and Senator Berger.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-906.ana.u15	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-906.ana.u16	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-906.ana.u17	MONTI (Mixed). Mr President, I did not participate in the vote of confidence yesterday because, considering the Government of Gentiloni Silveri to be worthy of trust, I should have voted yes, but this would have led me to express support for the draft law in our examination which I do not agree with on the substance. In the final vote, on which the question of trust is not put to the Government, I can freely express my position on the substance of the law and therefore I declare that I will vote no. [[Applause from Senator Gotor]] for the reasons which various interventions have already highlighted. I merely recall the impossibility of a split vote, the indication of the name of the head of political force and a prize that is also given to the coalition, even if our Constitution does not provide for any bond of mandate, therefore there are no obligations for the coalition to remain united even after the vote. This draft electoral law on the substance and the abundant force of method that - as President Napolitano pointed out in his lucid speech - has been imposed on the Government and, in fact, on individual parliamentarians I fear will not help to give citizens the sense of seriousness of politics. On the other hand, I fear that they will help to spread contempt for politics. [[Applause from Senator Napolitano.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-906.ana.u18	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-906.ana.u19	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-906.ana.u20	Mr Quagliarello (FL-Id-PL, PLI)). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the judgment on an electoral law does not respond to ethical demands or to ideal tensions. The electoral law is a tool that first serves to translate votes into seats, while guaranteeing, and as far as possible, representation and governance. In order to carry out its task well, it must harmonize with the historical situation and the institutional context. If you do not accept this premise you do not understand why men like Luigi Sturzo and Gaetano Salvemini - who in 1919 had been fathers of proportionalism - at the dawn of republican history, in a different context, they found themselves taking positions for the majority system. If you do not accept this premise you cannot understand why, when the reform process started, at the beginning of this legislature, it was thought that the electoral law should follow the reform of the institutions and not anticipate it. Only in this way could we have considered the institutional framework in which the new law would have been established. Only in this way would it have been possible to assess whether the overcoming of bipolarism clearly sanctioned by the ballot box in 2013 had in the meantime been consolidated or whether, on the contrary, the two historical groups - center-right and center-left - had been able to reabsorb the protest vote confluent on the 5 Star Movement, or at least a large part of that vote. As is well known, the initial pattern has been blown. The previous Government imposed the approval of Italicum, with the intention of surreptitiously changing the form of Government by introducing from the window that premiered that it would have to enter from the main door along with its counterweights, and restoring by electoral law a bipolarism in fact even more in crisis than it was in 2013. It could be objected that Renzi was certainly not the first in Italy to have assigned improper tasks to the electoral law. That's true, but maybe you never got to force your hand to such an extent. So, downstream of this forcing, we found ourselves in a real disaster: with two electoral laws written by the Constitutional Court and not by Parliament, compiled at different times and, as we know, drawn up by "subtracting" their unconstitutional parts in order only to avoid a regulatory vacuum. This inevitably resulted in a product marked by absolute incoherence. The Senate Consultellum encouraged the coalitions, that of the Chamber did not contemplate them; the law of the Senate did not provide for a majority prize, that of the Chamber yes; for the Senate there were very large colleges, for the Chamber very small; the Senate system totally opened up to preferences while that of the Chamber, blocking the capilists, would determine an Assembly made in majority by nominations; the law of the Senate did not provide for a gender vote, that of the Chamber yes; the two laws, moreover, dictated different rules on barricades and multi-candidates. If it is true that the judgment on an electoral law must have an empirical and approximate nature, colleagues, in judging the law on which we are going to vote, we cannot help but consider the rubble from which we come, and think for a moment of the alternative perspective that would have been imposed on us: that of trying to put order, as little as possible, using an inappropriate instrument such as a decree-law launched at the last minute before the referee whistles the end of the game. I mean, we can't help but consider what, as an alternative to this law, could have touched us in fate. From this point of view, let us start by saying that we do not like some elements of this bill. First of all - we repeat - the imposition of confidence, essentially on the entire electoral law, was an improper act. It is true, President Napolitano, that this inappropriateness is not statuated by a judgment of the Constitutional Court, but the institutions also live by custom, and these sometimes enter the intangible sphere of iurisdictio, even in systems governed by written norms. And the fact that electoral laws must derive from a free parliamentary debate certainly belongs to the customs of our republican history. We had appreciated that President Gentiloni Silveri, in his inaugural speech, had shown that he wanted to recover this custom by repairing a disobedience done by his predecessor. Unfortunately, he was forced to contradict himself. On the substance, we do not like the small space reserved for the choice of citizens. I am also saying this against the interests of my political side, but I believe that this space could have been extended by providing for the split vote, and this could have enhanced the quality of the people called to represent the different groups in the single colleges. Still, we don't like the Italian rule abroad. On this point, we would have liked a more radical reform that would re-launch the significance of that representation. We do not think that allowing cross-border candidacy for Italian residents is going in this direction. Finally, we are not entirely convinced of the rule on gender equality. It is not because to foresee some mechanism that balances an imbalance caused by historical and social reasons is not legitimate. But because such legislation, in order not to assume an improperly corporate meaning that ends up damaging the merit of those who want to protect, must be imagined as temporary and translate into simpler mechanisms than those who will chair the compilation of the next electoral lists. It must be said, however - let me say a note of lightness - that this norm carries with it a consequence that certainly will not please the supporters of gender theory and those who believe that sexuality is fluid and can be determined by cultural factors only. The gender vote reaffirms sexual identity, because in order to participate in a competition you must know who you are. At least at the time of running! [[Comments from the Group Art. 1-MDP.]] On the other hand, the law that we are going to vote on has undoubted advantages. First of all, it encourages the coalitions, which are certainly not the "absolute good," but in this historical moment they are the solution that can bring us closer to the objective of giving our country a stable government. Secondly, alongside the lists of proportional representation, it provides for a share of single-member colleges, which could allow greater consideration of merit in the selection of applications, and for creative minorities and civic groupings to be represented in the next Parliament. Finally - and this is the most important element - this measure exploits the margin granted by the last decision of the Constitutional Court to standardize the systems of Chamber and Senate, limiting the regionalization of representation in the Upper House to the single distribution of the remains. In this way - it goes without saying - it will be much more likely to have homogeneous majorities in the two branches of the assembly. However, there is one aspect that goes beyond that. In a civilized country, in fact, the electoral laws write to you parliaments, not judges. In Italy, moreover, the constitutional judges who were the authors of the Consultellum and Consultellum 2 did not aspire to arrogant the writing of those norms, and in the last sentence they had issued a warning that basically sounds like this: We are not legislators and we cannot produce positive law. To avoid regulatory voids we had to recover even bizarre institutions such as the draw. Ladies and gentlemen, it is up to you to write the reform. Also because the products of our two pronunciations, considered together, can present features of inconsistency so evident that they are unconstitutional. Those who read the Court's last ruling know, in short, that it contained a bottled message for Parliament and for politics. Not all aspects of the measure we are examining today are certainly free of censorship, but at least we have been pulled out of a situation of acclaimed illegality. If Parliament had not intervened - as we feared at times - this inertia would have caused an even deeper wound to the institutions and established the paralysis of politics and parties. After all, in these days, there has been evidence of vitality in this House, even through the irrational protests of some of the forces opposed to this measure. No doubt, better everything than dead gora. That is why I am announcing the vote in favour of the Federation of Freedom Group. [[Applause from the FL Group (Id-PL, PLI) and FI-PdL XVII.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-906.ana.u21	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-906.ana.u22	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-906.ana.u23	VERDINI (ALA-SCLP). Mr President, I am speaking this morning because in the debate on electoral reform I was "pulled over my jacket," by those who have summoned me and by those who have insulted me. To those who insult me I do not answer, because I want to speak only and exclusively about politics. I should say "Ecce Homo," with everything I've heard. CASTALDI (M5S). Poor Italy! VERDINI (ALA-SCLP). I think it's right and proper... CASTALDI (M5S). Five times he has come and even speaks in front of television! VOICE FROM THE ALA-SCLP GROUP. Shut up! PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator Castaldi, I'm calling you back to order. CASTALDI (M5S). Five times he has come and even speaks in front of television! PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator Castaldi, you have no power to speak. Go ahead, Senator Verdini too. VERDINI (ALA-SCLP). Thank you, Mr President. CASTALDI (M5S). Five times you've come! VOICE FROM THE ALA-SCLP GROUP. Again? Shut up! VERDINI (ALA-SCLP). I think it is right and proper to be here to answer, explain and clarify. First of all, I want to say that, in my opinion, this is a good electoral law; it is not a coup d'état, let alone a coup d'état. Words in politics are stones and should be weighed before throwing them into the popular arenas. Of course, it is not the best electoral law, because perfect laws in this branch of Parliament and the other do not exist. [[Comments from the M5S Group]] But it is the best possible at this historic moment and in this Parliament. [[The Senators of the M5S Group leave the Chamber.]] LUCIDES (M5S). (At the address of the PD Group). Listen up! PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator Lucidi, I'm calling you back to order. Since she's coming out, come on out. Please, Senator Verdini, continue. VERDINI (ALA-SCLP). Thank you, President. They say the law is my daughter, which I don't mind, but I'd say maybe she's a niece, because it was an idea that was then developed. It is a law necessarily the result of a compromise, but intellectual honesty would like it to be added to what this entire legislature has been a compromise, a great compromise. Too often they pretend to forget the result of 2013: elections that did not produce a political majority. The alternatives - the President of the Republic of that time is present in the Chamber - were either to dissolve the Chambers or to seek a meeting point between the responsible political forces. Well, there was that compromise and today it is said that a majority has been achieved with the release of Article 1 - MDP and with our entry. That's not true. That is not true, because we were there, we were there and we will be there until the last day of the legislature. [[Ironic applause from the Groups Art. 1-MDP and Mixed-SI-SEL]] VOICES BY GROUP ART.1-MDP. Bravo! PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I can't stand comments, please. VERDINI (ALA-SCLP). Applause is always good. Of course, I remind those who applaud that we are 14 "Ministers without portfolio," unlike so many others, and we claim this. In silence, we have always been incomprehensible to this sophistication attitude of the Pythagorics of this House, who are specialized in simple arithmetic and have never understood politics; or perhaps they have pretended not to understand it. Our uncomfortable presence has sterilized the post-Communist maximalisms and Catholic fundamentalisms, which still live with their heads in the past and their feet in the past, conditioning the internal life of their parties. [[Comments from the Group Art. 1-MDP]] I have a great deal of respect for the Left and its history; therefore, this morning's applause and everything that has been said in ours and in my view I only value them as political acts. As I said, I don't answer the insults, because beyond the regiments and the nostalgias, in the end, for history, the left with respect to ideas is also confronted in a controversial and strong way. I understand the bitterness of the so-called bersanians (greens, bersanians...). It is a bitterness that they should turn to themselves before others, to the fact that they do not understand the times we live, vindicating a glorious story, but without having ever done us well. In this House, when it comes to counting our votes, even arithmetic has been denied (to someone I will give an abacus). But this allows me to proudly claim to myself and to my Group everything we have done, starting from the role of political supplement that we have played, protecting the stability and interest of the country. Every time a measure seemed right to us and going in the right direction we supported it, ignoring the stupid weaves that were facing us every day. We are the ones who allowed the country to take a step forward on the rights front, making civil unions possible, and we would also vote for stepchild adoption, just as we will vote for the biological will, when and if it arrives in the Assembly. We are the ones who helped secure the public accounts, voting the DEFs without being in the majority, "Ministers without portfolio." And then we were loyal to Letta, Renzi and also to Gentiloni Silveri, despite his constant indifference. Mr President, I come to an issue which is undoubtedly uncomfortable to me. I have legal problems. I've always respected judges and justice. I defended myself in trials and not from trials and I demand, like everyone else, the constitutional respect of the presumption of innocence until final judgment. [[Applause from the ALA-SCCLP and FI-PdL XVII Groups, and Senator Comrade]] But in this House, strangely enough, the great defence of the beautiful Constitution sometimes forgets and takes instrumentally advantage of my judicial issues, which have nothing to do with my own and our political action, rendering ineffective the active presence in Parliament, which has been constantly derided, opposed and vile. Once upon a time, there was external support for governments. Now there is the phantom support: a truffle neologism specially coined for us, because they also know the stones that there has never been a real political majority in here that everyone has to deal with. [[Applause from the ALA-SCCLP Group and Senators Compañera and Fucksia]] But this theater of misunderstandings, this hypocritical game has served everyone a little bit. Patience, we look forward. We have been accused of being traitors for convenience, but in this House we have reached 20, today 14, in the other branch of 16, compared to the more than 300 Group changes, which become more than 500 if we consider the Members who have changed groups several times. Are everyone, between Members and senators who have changed groups, traitors or is it the effect of political changes and the political season? Even the friends of Article 1 have changed shirts, but I understand them. [[Applause from Senator Fucksia.]] On the contrary, we have been the talking cricket of reformism, often helping the PD to make difficult choices, exposing the contradictions between its two souls, on constitutional innovation, on labour policies, on jobs act, with the abolition of Article 18, on the IMU first home - an invaluable asset for everyone, poor and rich - on the IRAP, on the super depreciation and on the dismantling of folders. When we support this, they call us Renzians. We bothered everyone and someone tried to crush us and did not succeed, but perhaps because we understood the new political phase before others and we will see it. It makes a scandal to say that there are no more left and right and - to tell the truth - it sounds strange to me too. But it is difficult to deny that today the challenge of Western democracies is no longer between the right and the left, but between openness to modernity and closure in the past. And this dramatic legislature proves it: we elected two presidents, we voted three governments, launched two electoral laws, the anti-politics has inflated sails, Berlusconi has been unfavorably expelled from this Senate, the Nazarene pact has failed, the constitutional reform has been rejected; a very difficult navigation for all. Berlusconi, whom I have mentioned, has been the great innovator of politics and history will recognize it, but it seems to me that in these times the news also recognizes it. We followed him with conviction in his reformist struggle, believing and hoping then in Renzi's innovative force, to bring to conclusion the indispensable transformation and transition of the country. But, even if the Nazarene Pact imploded, we have continued to work and believe in the union of the best forces in the country, to hinder the drifts whose examples can be read throughout Europe and around the world. It is a historical necessity, determined by globalization, the economic crisis, by impetuous migrations: a phenomenon that is illusory to want to stop by raising walls, but that must be governed by policies of security and integration and with great national cohesion. As far as I am concerned, but I say this in a strictly personal capacity, I would be prepared to vote on the ius soli, even tomorrow, in line with what has already been done for the law on unaccompanied minors. I am obliged, Mr President, to close this speech - by announcing my vote in favour of the draft law on our examination - by referring once again to my person. With this reform, you are allowed to apply abroad and one of the many, stupid, false things that have been said about me has been put forward. I don't know if I'll run again, but if I do, I'll definitely do it in Italy. If ever one day, and I hope not, Veneto and Lombardy were to gain independence, perhaps I could run there, to fight, as an old republican, for the unity of the country. [[Applause from the ALA-SCLP and FL groups (ID-PL, PLI). Congratulations. Ironic applause from the Group Art.1-MDP.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-906.ana.u24	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-906.ana.u25	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-906.ana.u26	Mr Calderoli (LN-Aut). Mr President, these days I have heard and heard about electoral law and the Constitution, and I have also heard so much nonsense. The electoral matter is to be taken with the calipers - as they say - and, even if perhaps unjustly, I am attributed a certain knowledge of the matter, knowledge that derives from the fact that, unlike others, I have tried the system proportional to the preferences; I have tried the so-called Mattarellum and I have tried the so-called Porcellum. And today I can tell you with tranquillity that, in a tripolar system like the current one, there is no perfect electoral law and no perfect law can exist. I'll tell you this straight and clear. I speak of knowledge of the subject because, before we talk about the laws, we should read them and perhaps understand them and because I wrote an electoral law and I had Parliament approve it. Perhaps it will be my responsibility, but I, in this House, have made the names and surnames of those responsible who have ruined that law and no one has ever denied it. I wasn't fair to call it a piece of shit. I would no longer use that term, because the pigs came later, with the responsibility of so many sitting in this Parliament. Porcata was a constitutional reform that established a monarchy regime. Porcata was an electoral law, the Italicum, designed for Mr. Renzi only in command. Porcate are four Council Presidents never elected by anyone and supported by people elected in the center-right and who voted for seven years a technical government or a left-wing government. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group]] What is perhaps missing and not understood by everyone is that we do not have an electoral law today. I hear you can't use a crazy law with respect to the House and the Senate, but the Senate doesn't have the electoral law. The Constitutional Court said that it had to be supplemented by legislative acts of primary or secondary rank. It was January 2014. Nobody's done anything since. If the Chambers had dissolved, there would have been no opportunity to return to the vote, or we would have returned to the vote with a ministerial decree appealable before any TAR. That situation would not have allowed the exercise of democracy: if a country cannot vote, democracy has been suspended. We're filling that hole today. And we do it with this law. I don't know if it's beautiful or ugly. The laws must work. It is clear that I, at dinner or lunch, if I have to choose a wine, I take the white one or the red one; the rosé I have never taken in my life. Rather than water, however, I also take the rosatello. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group]] One thing is certain: I wondered from the beginning what requirements I was taught to have an electoral law? First of all, it must ensure representativeness, namely the translation of voters' votes into seats, into elected ones. Here we have almost two thirds of the Members who are elected under the proportional system and, therefore, representativeness is absolutely guaranteed. As regards the identification of the candidate by the voter, it is expected to write on the card the name and surname of the single candidate and the names that make up the lists (two to four candidates). In most colleges a candidate will be elected for the single and one for the proportional quota, i.e. the leader. Someone raised the problem of the potential transfer of the vote: I am convinced that the voter will put the cross on the party he wants to vote and, therefore, there will be no transposition of the vote. I remember, however, that, with the Mattarellum, the Senate was expressed only one vote and the majority moved to proportional. It is useless, therefore, today, to tear off his clothes for this. There must be a guarantee of consistency between the House of Deputies and the Senate system and, in this case, they are parallel, except for the active and passive electorate. It must then have the guarantee of unpredictability, which has always been realized. I laughed, reading the various simulations published in the newspapers, in which it is said that in the North no college will go to Forza Italia, or to PD. Are we missing out? It is not known what the colleges of the union will be. We do not know what the colleges of the plurinomial or even their number will be. You don't know who's gonna put his face in it, and someone's already done some simulations. [[Applause from the LN-Aut, FI-PdL XVII, ALA-SCCLP and Misto-Fare and Senators Bellot, Cardinals and Russo),]] which have been published to spread terror among those who are voting for the measure today and perhaps would not have done so out of fear of losing their seats. The proposed electoral system may have a flaw: that of governability, but the governability, today, in a tripolar regime, cannot guarantee it. [[Applause from the LN-Aut, FI-PdL XVII and ALA-SCCLP Groups.]] Personally, I would have chosen the Mattarellum, with two thirds majority and a third proportional, or a majority prize to guarantee a little more that governability, but it seems to me that this system has four out of five requirements. I didn't vote for this government and I never will: I haven't done it in the past and I won't do it in the future. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group]] Maybe, "watching our noses" we will vote on this law, because Salvini said that he would vote on any electoral law, with a commitment: vote on the law and dissolve the Chambers before Christmas and finally return to the vote. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group]] I tell our comrades of the majority with sincerity. My boys, it's over. We are on fruit, indeed the bill has even arrived, now: the people will present it to you when they come back to vote. Now you have to bring down the clèr, because here I seem to see so many boxers playing, in the last period of the legislature. The first one came with the December referendum; the second one came with the administrative, the third one you took last Sunday, at the referendum on the autonomy of Lombardy and Veneto [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group and Senator Marin]] , because, beyond the many declarations, you have rowed against; the fourth will arrive next week in Sicily, where, from 40% of the votes of 2014, you risk to arrive fourth out of four and to the next policies you will arrive third out of three. Like it or not. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group]] I apologise to my colleague, Mr Razzi, for using his expression. "I'll tell you as a friend": stop the madman. My guys, in the thousand days of government, he destroyed the country and split the party, because there really is nothing left here anymore. [[Applause from Senator Bell.]] There is only one young old Christian Democrat left as secretary: only that. Now he has an electoral law passed that will probably lead to the extinction of his party. It got embarrassing! Now he's also playing with the train. [[Applause from the LN-Aut and FI-PdL XVII Groups]] Guys, keep him on the train 'cause if he gets off, someone's attacking him. He used to play with Orfini. Buy him a nice plastic and let him play with Boschi, Orfini and the "magic lily," but stop him, because he is dangerous for himself and for others. [[Comments of Senator Cappelletti.]] There's some for you, too. Don't worry! To Mr. Renzi I say: dear Matteo, I tell you as a friend not to be calm anymore, because you promised that you would resign after the referendum and you lied on that occasion too. We are going to the election, not to participate, but to win and we will resign you, dear Matthew! [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group and Senator Rizzotti]] I want to remind you of something to those who are disturbing other people's interventions. You spoke of an attack on democracy, you rejected trust, and you did well. I was jealous when you occupied the government benches. But after I did, I'd be there all night, and I wouldn't move. It is not fair, after talking about attacks on democracy and everything else, and asking for the resignation of the President of the Senate, that the Parent Company goes into the corridor behind the House to deal with the President of the Senate, saying that it withdraws the House's occupation in exchange for direct television. [[Applause from the LN-Aut, PD, FI-PdL XVII, Mixed, AP-CpE-NCD, GAL (DI, GS, PPI, RI), Art.1-MDP, ALA-SCLP and FL (Id-PL, PLI)]] You're from the LN-AUT group. Pagliacci! Shame! ENDRIZZI (M5S). Do me a favor! Mr Calderoli (LN-Aut). If democracy can be sold out on a live television, my boys, you're part of the comedy, but in the next election, you're just extras. [[Applause from the LN-Aut, PD, Mixed, AP-CpE-NCD, GAL (DI, GS, PPI, RI) and ALA-SCLP Groups. Congratulations.]] [[Comments of Senator Montevecchi.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-906.ana.u27	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-906.ana.u28	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-906.ana.u29	BRUNI (GAL (DI, GS, PPI, RI)). Mr President, I would like to say at once that, together with most of the LAG Group, with my colleagues from the Italian Directorate-General, I will vote in favour of this draft law, recognising and respecting the reasons of other members of the LAG Group who wish to make an opposite choice. If we have only come today to vote on the new electoral law, a few months after the natural expiry of this Parliament; if we have had to make a run for an incomplete text - with the defects previously pointed out - and not decisive for the new Parliament, the only one responsible is the Secretary of the Democratic Party. If we have any emptiness of memory, it will be enough to re-read most of the speeches made in the general discussion on Italicum. In addition to censoring on the merits the law and the opportunity of the chosen electoral system, they highlighted the serious defects of unconstitutionality of the legislative text. But, also in that case, as well as in the most striking of constitutional reform, the arrogance and stupid pervicacy of the then Premier prevailed, imposing on our country a law that, two years later, was halved by the judgment n. 35 of 2017 of the Constitutional Court. In these days, those who have opposed this bill and have been excluded from the agreement on the so-called Rosatellum have pointed out that the approval of the law at the end of the legislature is contrary to paragraph 65 of the Code of Good Conduct on electoral matters of the Council of Europe. We have all read that in this standard it is said that: What is to be avoided is not so much the modification of the voting procedure, since the latter can always be improved; but, its revision repeated or intervening shortly before the ballot (less than a year). Even in the absence of a desire to manipulate, this will appear in this case as linked to the economic interests of the party. Well, if this provision has also been violated, then the political responsibility is always that of the PD and its secretary, who have kept the entire Parliament in check for three years with a view to a substantial amendment of the Constitution, which - rather than a reform - was a false attempt to change the Charter, grammarized and light years away from what the Italians asked. On 4 December, in fact, the voters rejected this perverse design and, among the effects of that no in the referendum, there remained an Italicum mowed by the Court, which can only be used for the election of the Chamber of Deputies. Thus, three years of unnecessary discussions have led to this forcing on the electoral law, forcing the Chambers to approve it in a matter of weeks. Nevertheless, this Parliament has a duty to resolve the current impasse on the electoral system. If we did not approve a new text today, we would force the Italians to vote with the current system. The election of the Senate would be governed by the forecasts of the law Calderoli of 2005, as amended by the Court in January 2014. In this way, we would use a pure proportional system, based on a single regional college with preference voting, which would see elected only the leader of a party, or one of its leaders, or a very wealthy multimillionaire candidate or, even worse, supported by criminal organizations. The House of Deputies should then use the so-called Constitutionalised Italicum, in which the 40% threshold has survived to obtain the majority prize. As you can see, if you voted today with a highly uneven electoral system, you would have the possibility of a full majority only in the Chamber of Deputies, with a Balkanized and ungovernable Senate. Faced with this uneven picture, last spring the Democratic Party made the rough proposal of the so-called Tedeschellum, which had only the merit of an apparent broad parliamentary sharing, but at the same time highlighted wide defects, among which the fragility of the same agreement - broken on one of the first secret votes - and the mathematical impossibility of having any party achieve a parliamentary majority. Through this rugged path we have reached the current bill, of which I do not mention the name, not recognizing to the proposer any particular technical competence or scientific ability. Some of the novelties of the text submitted for our approval are certainly worthwhile. On all, there is that of the re-introduction of single-member colleges based on the majority system. This will mean, especially for the House of Deputies (due to the limited extension of colleges), the rapprochement between the electorate and the candidate, with inevitable advantages for our democratic system. Such a forecast of the bill leads to a vote in favour, but many remain the vices that we would have liked to eliminate or reduce in a less co-ordinated and non-quotated parliamentary debate. Certainly it would have been desirable to have a greater number of single-member colleges, perhaps returning to the measure envisaged by the so-called Mattarellum (75 per cent) or, at least, to an equal division with the elected in the multi-annual proportional. To this end, I had proposed amendments, unfortunately foreclosed by yesterday's vote of confidence. Moreover, the excessive territorial extension of the proportional quota is not satisfactory. The risk, in this case, is that of the lack of knowledge of the candidate, as already indicated by the Consulta in sentence n. 1 of 2014. The biggest flaw is, however, the first one highlighted, of the reduced share of the majority, which will not be able to significantly determine the outcome of the electoral competition. Another issue which is perplexing is the single vote mechanism for the majority and proportional college. Greater meditation could have led to reflection on the desirability of such a prediction, avoiding the sure streaks of a future lawsuit before the Constitutional Court. However, the highlighted reasons for the necessary elimination of the existing electoral system, which is uneven and not organic, lead me to a generally favourable assessment of this bill. The bitterness remains for what could be done in this parliamentary term and has not been done. The regret for the lack of reform of our constitutional structure, dissolved in the vain glories of the secretary of the PD, who as President of the Council sold the illusion of an institutional system based on the certainty of an election winner and a granite parliamentary majority. It wasn't like that. No one, starting with the PD secretary, has dealt with the current scenario, as Mr Calderoli mentioned earlier: I am referring to a tripolar political system, which determines, on the basis of proportional electoral laws, a perennial season of governments of broad understanding, that is, permanent situations of parliamentary impasse. How could this risk be avoided? Certainly not with the proposition of models based on substantial majority prizes, as is the case with regional elections. In that case, the risk would be a new pronunciation of unconstitutionality, as happened under the law of my colleague Calderoli. Perhaps the only way, suggested by us and many other members of the centre-right during the gestation of constitutional reforms, could have been that of the evolution of our constitutional system towards the form of presidentialism, to which would have been a corollary a double-round electoral law, the only antidote to the paralysis of tripolar Italy. This was not the case because it was thought of the traumatic effects of the Boschi and Italicum reforms, which would guarantee - as was said - the full governability of our Parliament. I remember that the voters, on December 4, did not have the same opinion and today, with this law, we try to reduce the damage of a bad season of PD-led governments, already repudiated by Italians and now to be placed in oblivion. For this very last reason and to achieve the objective of resolving the current paralysis of our electoral system, I confirm the positive vote announced at the beginning of my speech. [[Applause from the LAG groups (DI, GS, PPI, RI) and FL (ID-PL, PLI). Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-906.ana.u30	We greet the students, students and teachers of the Institute of Higher Education of the State of Rome, who follow our work. Hi, guys. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-906.ana.u31	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-906.ana.u32	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-906.ana.u33	ZELLER (Aut (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT)-PSI-MAIE). Mr President, the new electoral law is certainly not perfect, but it represents a perhaps not optimal balance, but certainly realistic, within the difficult and complex framework resulting from the breaking of the political pact, which was produced in the House in June of this year, despite the fact that the so-called Tedescum had already been voted in the Commission by the political forces representing as many as 80% of the Members. In normal times, we too would have been opposed to adopting the electoral law with confidence, and in this sense we share the concerns expressed by President Napolitano, but the times are not normal. This is the last opportunity for this Parliament to demonstrate that it is able to make an electoral law and to guarantee certain rules for the next - and not too far away - elections. This text uniforms the electoral systems of the House and Senate and is supported by the majority and also by oppositions, as President Mattarella wished, and this is positive. However, let me also make a point as a representative of the linguistic minorities. In the last few days I have been the subject of heavy criticism, even on a personal level, by representatives of the 5 Star Movement just because I have allowed myself to denounce their attitude on the subject of linguistic minorities. I recall that 42 of the amendments tabled by the various groups, in particular by the 5 Star Movement, concerned linguistic minorities. However, it is enough to pause for a moment on the content of these amending proposals in order to immediately grasp their obvious exploitation. [[Senator Endrizzi's comments.]] Dear colleagues of the 5 Star Movement, I find it very disconcerting that the opponents of this electoral law, which only in words always pretend to be great friends of the linguistic minorities and the autonomous ones, have again tried - as has been the case during the votes on constitutional reform - to use the rules, which allow the secret vote for issues relating to linguistic minorities, for purposes completely unrelated to the minorities themselves and certainly not in their interest. [[Applause from the Aut Groups (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT) - PSI-MAIE) and PD]] On the contrary, the 5 Star Movement's amendments have nothing to do with the protection of linguistic minorities. [[Comments from Senators Lucidi, Marton and Russo.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-906.ana.u34	Senator Lucidi, don't interrupt anyone who speaks. I'll call you back to order.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-906.ana.u35	ZELLER (Aut (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT)-PSI-MAIE). They tend, if anything, to worsen the condition, overturning and distorting the aims of protection and guarantee provided by the Constitution. I refer, in particular, to the first-signed amendments by Mr Endrizzi, Mr Morra and Mr Crimi, all senators of the 5 Star Movement Group. [[Ironic applause from Senator Castaldi.]] Mr Lezzi (M5S). But what amendments! ZELLER (Aut (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT)-PSI-MAIE). Dear Senator Endrizzi, the way in which you tried to justify yourself two days ago is not convincing at all. Its amendments speak for themselves: they are not only unconstitutional, they are even highly discriminatory against linguistic minorities, and I will explain why. MARTON (M5S). How many do you have? Answer! Shame on you! CASTALDI (M5S). Seven seats out of seven are stolen. Other than minorities. That's the truth! PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator Castaldi, I'm calling you back to order. ZELLER (Aut (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT)-PSI-MAIE). Let me talk, I'll explain. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator Zeller, address the assembly, not the individual senators. ZELLER (Aut (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT)-PSI-MAIE). As is well known, the electoral law under discussion here in the Senate no longer provides for the separation. Vows for candidates in single-member colleges both for the House... [[Senator Lucidi's comments.]] Mr Russo (PD). Stop! We want silence in this House! PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator Lucidi, take your seats! ZELLER (Aut (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT)-PSI-MAIE). As is well known, the electoral law under discussion no longer provides for the division and votes for candidates in single-member colleges for both the House and the Senate are also counted for the allocation of seats for the proportional part. What, though, did the 5 Star Movement propose? LUCIDES (M5S). Again? ZELLER (Aut (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT)-PSI-MAIE). The 5 Star Movement proposed that, for linguistic minorities only, a system of extremely penalising and discriminatory division should be applied, removing all the votes of candidates in the uninomial colleges for the proportional system and this only for minorities. The votes for the 5 Star Movement were worth 100 per 100, those for minorities were not worth even half. This is really disconcerting and I don't know how it came to your mind. MARTON (M5S). How much are they worth now? Mr Russo (PD). Stop! SUSTA (PD). Shut up! Mr Russo (PD). Quiet! [[Senator Castaldi's protests.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-906.ana.u36	Senator Castaldi, I'm calling you back to order.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-906.ana.u37	[[Senator Lucidi's protests.]] Senator Lucidi, I'm calling you back to order. ZELLER (Aut (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT)-PSI-MAIE). I do not know why the 5 Star Movement believes that the parties expressing linguistic minorities should not be able to compete for the allocation of the five seats in the Trentino Alto-Adige Südtirol, planned for proportionality. I don't know. Did you really think you could snatch a seat at language minorities? [[Senator Paglini's comments.]] Were you not satisfied with the dozens and dozens of seats that you will get in other regions because of this electoral system? Wasn't that enough? Okay. Beyond the above-mentioned criticisms of merit, I also take the opportunity to respond to some statements made yesterday by my colleague Marton, always of the 5 Star Movement. LUCIDES (M5S). Stop! [[Senator Lezzi's comments.]] ZELLER (Aut (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT)-PSI-MAIE). Senator Marton called my intervention shameful, because I would defend an electoral system that would guarantee seven seats. [[Comments from the M5S Group.]] Mr Russo (PD). Mr President, you must protect colleagues who speak. ZELLER (Aut (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT)-PSI-MAIE). I would have defended an electoral system that would guarantee seven seats for the Trentino South Tyrol Region Südtirol, which would not be justified with only one million inhabitants, while Liguria, with 1,600,000 inhabitants, would have only eight. Dear colleague Marton, I understand that in his previous life he had little to do with electoral systems. [[Comments from the M5S Group.]] However, I believe that an average citizen, but above all a senator of the Republic, should at least know the Italian Constitution. [[Comments from the M5S Group.]] WOMAN (M5S). Speak for yourself! ZELLER (Aut (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT)-PSI-MAIE). Read, for example, paragraph 3 of Article 57. In fact, I read it to him: "No Region can have a number of senators less than seven, so even the Basilicata with 700,000 inhabitants has seven senators and clearly also the Trentino Region with one million has seven senators. Where, then, would the privilege of Trentino-Alto Adige Südtirol lie? Next time, before you speak in this House, you should read the Constitution! [[Comments from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-906.ana.u38	Let me talk. I'm here to assure the senator that I can do his speech. Accept the parliamentary dialectic.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-906.ana.u39	[[Senator Endrizzi's comments.]] You can reply in your explanation of vote. ZELLER (Aut (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT)-PSI-MAIE). As for the so-called pink quotas which, according to the 5 Star Movement, would be missing in Bolzano, but have you and your colleague Crimi read the bill before this House? Apparently not. Mr Lezzi (M5S). No! ZELLER (Aut (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT)-PSI-MAIE). No, because the pink quotas apply, as for all the other parts of Italy, evidently also in Trentino-Alto Adige Südtirol - read article 18-a, paragraph 3.1 - starting from the next legislature, when there will be at least one woman [[Comments of the Senators De Petris and Petraglia]] between the 2-3 candidates of the SVP both in the Chamber and in the Senate. [[Senator Marton's comments.]] However, I would remind you that the senators of Südtiroler Volkspartei, who have been in this Parliament since 1948, have never been seven; we had two, sometimes three senators, but never seven, as you have repeatedly said in this House. This corresponds to our political strength on the ground and to the votes given by our citizens. Based on what do you keep saying that SVP is going to make seven out of seven senators in the next election? It's just a crazy critique. MARTON (M5S). With the alliances made! ZELLER (Aut (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT)-PSI-MAIE). And I believe that popular will must also be respected in the Province of Bolzano, even when a citizen decides to vote for the SVP. The equality of vote, dear colleagues of the 5 Star Movement, applies not only to you but also to us and, on the other hand, did you not blow up the agreement of last June, asking to extend the national system for proportional seats also in Bolzano? [[Applause from the PD Group. Comments from the M5S Group]] MARTON (M5S). No! Shame on you! ZELLER (Aut (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT)-PSI-MAIE). So do not complain now that Parliament has done exactly what you asked for with the identical amendments by Fraccaro and Biancofiore. We have extended the voting system in force throughout Italy also to Bolzano for proportional seats. What do you want, then? Senator Marton said, finally, that Senator Zeller - I quote - did not respond to the nation, but only responds to himself and only to himself. In fact, I was elected after winning the primary with over 5,500 preferences and I certainly wasn't listed, like you, after getting a hundred clicks in front of a computer. [[Applause from the Aut Groups (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT) - PSI-MAIE, PD and AP-CpE-NCD.]] [[Comments of Senator Marton]] Afterwards, I took over 40,000 votes in the one-name college. [[Comments of Senator Marton]] I wasn't elected like you with the Porcellum. I was elected with the Mattarellum. I feel sorry for you. (Exchange of jokes between Senators Marton and Susta). Returning to the text under consideration, as Autonomous and linguistic minorities, we intend, however, to reaffirm the constitutional and statutory reasons for which for the Trentino-Alto Adige Südtirol were confirmed the six unnamed colleges for the Chamber and Senate. As we know, the six unnamed colleges in the Senate, of which three in the Autonomous Province of Bolzano, are the result of an international agreement and derive from the so-called Package of 1969 made with Austria and are, for this reason, survived as unicum throughout Italy also at the Porcellum of 2005 - for this reason I was elected with the Mattarellum - which had abolished (as is known) the system of uninomial colleges throughout Italy, but not for the Senate in our Region. Given the need to standardize the voting system of the Chamber and Senate and to promote the representation of all the linguistic groups present in the territory, the electoral system with three single-member colleges in the Province of Bolzano, already in force for the Senate, has been rightly extended also to the Chamber. The system also has the great advantage of guaranteeing the presence of linguistic minorities regardless of whether we exceed a threshold, which is very high for us, because we must exceed 20% in proportion, which is 40% for my party. For these reasons, the Group for Autonomies-PSI-MAIE will vote in favour of the draft electoral reform bill. [[Applause from the Aut Groups (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT) - PSI-MAIE, PD and AP-CpE-NCD.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-906.ana.u40	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-906.ana.u41	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-906.ana.u42	MIGLIAVACCA (Art. 1-MDP). Mr President, three votes of confidence in the House and five votes in the Senate: we are in the presence of an unprecedented violent pressure from Parliament. Never a government and a majority have come to so much from 1861 to today, under the Republic or under the monarchy: as many as eight votes of confidence, between the House and the Senate, on the electoral law, in order not to have any amendments voted. De Gasperi was mentioned, but he put his trust after weeks of obstruction and, at least in the House, on a part of the only article in that law and not after five hours of discussion, as happened yesterday. It is an act of force that hides a weakness: the fear of the secret vote of Members of the same majority. You, who have wanted or decided on this tear, continue to pick up the rules of parliamentary democracy without having the strength or the ability to build new ones with the necessary consensus. You are creating, in the name of the government's predominance over Parliament, urgency over normality, a material constitution that is not reflected in the principles of the written Constitution. By doing so, you contribute to a crisis in the Republic without a clear outlet, if not an uncertain and dangerous drift. An example: from now on any majority will be able to change the electoral law to a few months of the vote, according to the conveniences of the moment and by blows of confidence. To do what? To enact an electoral law that cannot produce a majority chosen by the voters, that cuts representation and that will lead to a rain of nominations. A law that will gradually reveal its effects and widen the gap between citizens and institutions. There are colleges and there are coalitions, of course. But colleges are only a corrective limited to proportional plant and coalitions are lying coalitions. It is only electoral appearances for having more elected, without the obligation of a shared program and leader. An escamotage that already contains at the origin the germ of their dissolution. As Professor D'Alimonte documented on "Il Sole 24 Ore," this law is not capable of producing a majority chosen by voters. I hear political leaders say on television: give us 40% and we will have the majority. It's a mirage. It's a dream. Even with 40% of the seats in proportion (and that is so), to reach the 316 seats of the majority in the House a coalition should conquer as much as 70 percent of the majority colleges. A goal impossible to achieve in a multipolar system. Besides, things wouldn't change even to a higher percentage, stratospheric. With 45% of the seats in proportion, 65% of the majority colleges should be conquered. Scenarios that have the same probability of achieving an invasion of the Martians in the next few hours. It's not an opinion, it's a simple mathematical calculation that anyone can do. Coalitions are just a mirror for the lark. The next day the vote will have to go to a government of more or less broad understandings, probably disarticulating the coalitions that have presented themselves to the voters. This is the real substance of the political agreement that upholds the electoral law. A Government PD-Forza Italia and (today we have heard) ALA, with only one variable: the necessity or not of the presence of the League. The same majority that was formed on this law. The effect will be a disillusionment of many voters and a further blow to the credibility of politics. If you did not want or could not go towards a majority system, the Mattarellum, or maybe with the double turn of college as in France, it was better then to do a truth operation with voters: choose a correct proportional system with a threshold of 5% and do a transparent thing. To encourage a conscious vote by voters and not to blow coalitions to do something else. It is not said that the results for governability would have been worse. Instead, we will not have a majority and we will have more fragmentation. But this is not the end: the election of Members of Parliament is based on a bottom-up system. If an elector only votes the candidate in the uninomial college, his vote is given pro-quota to the coalition parties, even if he didn't want to, even if he never dreamed of voting for a party in that coalition. This is a serious limitation of the freedom of citizens, a violation of Article 48 of the Constitution. Not by chance, all the mixed electoral systems have the split vote. In this law it is not so and only to strengthen the parties that are in coalition and the mechanism of the nominations. Even the vote blocked in the lists of candidates in the proportional part draws a very uncertain link between voters and elected, because the choice of the elected is actually entrusted to a winding, national and regional mechanism. Another story in Spain, where we vote on short lists in small circuits. But it is said that there was no alternative. That's not true. If you did not want or could return to a majority system, you could start again from the German model; you could work on the thresholds and rewards to harmonise the systems resulting from the Constitutional Court's judgments; you could even work on this model, to widen the areas of freedom of voters. No, you haven't: you've wasted your time and now the deal isn't touched. This is not responsibility, it is only an arrogant calculation of conveniences. This electoral system seems to be a tailor-made outfit of the center-right: it minimizes differences and maximizes seats. Less obvious are the reasons of the other party to the pact, the PD: the government anyway? The so-called useful vote? As if the national and local elections had not already shown that the call to vote was very weakened. We will see: it would not be the first time that presumptuous calculations prove wrong. It is not good, however, for an electoral law to be made, just a few months after the vote, against someone, against those who do not join forces. It's a serious mistake. We at MDP had asked at least to discuss this bill; the answer consisted of five votes of confidence, a boulder deliberately put by the Democratic Party. This electoral law will finally mark a passage of epoch in Italian politics: the dream of a Republic that returns the sceptre to the voters fails. After the Mattarellum, after the Constitutional Court has amended the 2005 law and Italicum, for reasons which, unheard of, had already been denounced in this Chamber, we will have an electoral law that, in premise, not as a state of necessity, cannot produce a majority; a law that will banish coalitions by fake. We will have voters who will not be able to choose directly the elected. All ingredients that provide for a further break between citizens and institutions; a responsibility that we leave to others, to the majority that is born today and that today makes the general tests for its tomorrow. MDP's no is a firm and convinced no. [[Applause from the groups Art.1-MDP and Misto-SI-SEL. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-906.ana.u43	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-906.ana.u44	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-906.ana.u45	MANCUSO (AP-CpE-NCD). Mr President, unlike Mr Migliavacca, I believe that today is an important day for Italian democracy and for our Parliament, because the latter will take a significant step forward as it will enable us to reaffirm democratic rules in Italy and to respect the principles of participation and choice by citizens. We thus avoid the spectre of an irresponsible decision on our part, of a bad figure such as to complete the legislature without having endowed the country with an electoral law that protects it from dangerous drifts of ungovernability. The effects of failure to approve the electoral law would be devastating a few months after the vote. An electoral law that - we have heard it from several quarters - probably does not appeal to everyone, it is not the best one, but it allows us to put citizens in a position to choose freely and without the risk of going to the vote with the current system absolutely uneven, inconsistent, irrational and therefore not applicable, even if it responds to the decisions of the Court. However - as Mr Quagliariello said - the Constitutional Court is concerned with correcting the decisions and laws we make in Parliament, it is certainly not concerned with writing the laws. So an instrument of democracy as important as electoral law can only be written by Parliament, the only seat through which voters decide their representation. So we could not escape what must be a real duty for all of us and not a simple choice. It is a written law with the agreement of the parties that represent, in part, the majority and, in part, the opposition; a necessary agreement, but not for this generated by forcings, after which twice known political groups have blown up the agreements on the electoral law, which seemed to have been done. The technique is known: to always say "no" in order to create artificial reasons, useful to make the electoral campaign warm or find arguments that can animate the squares. This law, often too hastily, is accused of unconstitutionality, a strong term that takes hold on the people and citizens who have to evaluate, but which has no foundation, because all the experts and constitutionalists that we have heard in the various Commissions have expressed themselves in a critical way, with observations and with references to the constitutional dictation, but without making obvious statements of unconstitutionality. It can be said that it is a law that some people like and others do not like, but there is no doubt about constitutional coherence. It is a law that, however, has emerged from a dialogue, from a mediation between the different needs of the majority of political and parliamentary groups representing the people in Parliament. This is the method of writing the rules: working together to contemplate a series of principles expressed by the various political parties in a context of regulatory consistency and constitutional compatibility. A law that guarantees representativeness, governability, possibility of choice by voters. The balance between proportional and majority shares, of two thirds and one third respectively, guarantees voters, through the provision of single-member colleges both to the House and to the Senate, to choose their candidate and their college congressman. The relationship between the Member of Parliament and the territory I believe is indispensable, a founding element of representativeness. There has been much discussion about preferences and blocked lists and these will be reasons for attacking the law. Preferences would in itself be an exemplary system of choice for the respect of the voter's will, but it cannot be a dogma of democracy, because we know the distorting effects of them, especially us parliamentarians - let me say this - of the South. If we want the system of blocked lists to be shorter, then with the candidates more recognizable than the Porcellum, it does not appear an expropriation in the faculty of choice in the expression of the vote, it is necessary that the parties organize themselves for methods of choice and selection of the most participated and transparent candidates and a bill is being discussed, of which I am rapporteur together with my colleague Mirabelli, which I hope will see the light as soon as possible. The problem therefore moves to the will of the parties, who have responsibility for the choices, as is the case in Germany. Coalitions were introduced, the ones that Italicum had deleted with the prize on the list. One of the fiercest criticisms of that law was that of man's danger only under command. We have always been supporters of a coalition aggregation system under a common programme. Then, the judgment on the validity of the program and on the coherence of the coalitions will be given by the citizens, the voters and not the censors, who use these arguments to fuel useless and instrumental protests. The system of coalitions and aggregations of this type, therefore, cannot fail to be recognized as virtuous. Of course, if the coherence of the parties on clear and shared programmes, with solid and value-based programming platforms, is not convincing, the belief is nourished that the possibility of a future Government of broad understanding is a preventive design, a so-called inciucium, and not one of the options of government in case of political stalemate of the Chambers. Mr President, we are preparing to finally equip our country with an electoral law based on certain rules; rules that serve Italy to give concreteness to the institutions and guarantee to external observers, who believe that the risk of ungovernability, political hold, often compared to the economic and financial one, is prevalent. This did not lead us to write an electoral law whatever it is, but a law that has fundamental elements consistent with the desire to restore credibility and dignity to politics and improve the relationship between Italians and institutions. For this reason, Mr President, the Group of the People's Alternative, which has played an active and proactive role in the construction of this law, will vote in favour of the adoption of the measure. [[Applause from the AP-CpE-NCD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-906.ana.u46	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-906.ana.u47	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-906.ana.u48	DE PETRIS (Misto-SI-SEL). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, it has been sixty-four years since the Senate had to suffer the humiliation of the vote of confidence on an electoral law. But that law was passed with confidence only to the Senate; it had never happened, before today, that an electoral law was imposed with confidence in both branches of Parliament. In these sixty-four years, the law passed at the beginning of 1953 has always maintained the unhonorable title of "law scam," but today it is destined to lose the scepter. This law, in fact, is so dishonest and fraudy that it should be called not Rosatellum- bis but Truffarellum- bis. We thought that after the extraordinary outcome of the referendum on 4 December last there was a reflection, that the lesson had served. We thought, in all honesty and in good faith, that this would lead to the construction of a fully constitutional electoral law model, i.e. fully inspired by constitutional principles. Instead, with this law, you foolishly and coldly deceive the voters, asking them to vote for coalitions that are pure holograms, destined to dissolve a moment after stealing the votes. The coalitions drawn by this law recall those marriages of convenience in which the spouses present themselves with in their pocket already ready the papers for the divorce; immediately after the ceremony the gifts will be divided and the one seen has been seen. So much for the voters, mocked for the umpteenth time. But maybe that's what you wanted. After five years of talking in vain by some about the right of voters to choose their representatives, those voters are about to have served a law in which, in the end, perhaps not even a Member will be chosen freely and directly by the citizens. The Chambers will be occupied in full by the appointed, that is by the faithful of the various secretariats. After decades of talking about the necessary and urgent rebalancing of gender representation, a law is adopted which, in the end, for every elected woman, will bring four males to Parliament. On the other hand, however, a novelty is introduced that no one, I must say, in 1953 would dare to take into consideration: thanks to the expedient to deny the possibility of the split vote, or rather through the single vote for two different electoral systems, majority and proportional, some votes, depending on whether you vote for the winning candidate to the union, will be worth double, thus violating in the most blatant and brutal way the principle of equality of the vote, other votes are of the kind supermarket: pay one and take three. And always through the mechanism of the single vote, then, the voter who will have placed the cross on the name of the candidate to the single college (and only on that) will see redistributed to other lists coalized, pro quota, their own vote, but according to the vote expressed not by him, but by other voters, thus favoring lists and candidates perhaps opposed to their own ideas. The same thing happens with owl lists that exceed one percent, but not three percent. This violates, at one stroke, the principles of equal, free, personal and direct voting enshrined in our Constitution (Articles 3, 49 and 56). I must say that the defense of this law by Senator Calderoli is a guarantee that this will also be declared unconstitutional and he knows something about it. This law, which a government without a majority (it was seen yesterday with the vote on trusts) imposes, under the mandate of an arrogant and overbearing party secretary, is not only a scam: it is a monument to irresponsibility. You all know that it is a law strongly exposed to the risk of unconstitutionality. You all know that the third consecutive rejection of an electoral law by the Constitutional Court would mean the definitive discredit of democratic institutions, but you don't care, because at that point the elections will have already been there. Moreover, as Senator Giorgio Napolitano even pointed out yesterday in his speech, even without the rejection of the Constitutional Court, this law will still have to be changed again. The possibility that in the aftermath of the elections it is not possible to give life to any majority in government is totally realistic and, even if by miracle it will not be, it will still be a spurious, fragile majority, or perhaps this was precisely the intention: to arrive with this electoral law at broad or close understanding. For years you have obsessed us with speeches according to which one could and, indeed, had to sacrifice a part of the representation in the name of governability and in fact with this law was sacrificed, yes, representation, but without even obtaining results on the front of governability: a masterpiece! This umpteenth, unheard-of force (even eight trusts between the House and the Senate) is, moreover, the worthy conclusion of a legislature in which the Renzi and Gentiloni Silveri governments have always followed the same script, the same modus operandi, with a Parliament called only to ratify decrees by blows of confidence and in the end with a single objective: the abolition of the rights, both those of citizens, workers and the environment, as well as those of Parliament. In this parliamentary term the precarious has become institutional and permanent, workers' rights have been dismantled, starting with the deletion of Article 18. The interests of finance and banks have been defended at the expense of those of citizens and savers. You have approved the release of Italy, humiliated the public school with good school, they have passed the non-governmental organizations, committed to saving lives, for criminals (I see Minniti here) and I could continue with a long list, trying to always force silence both citizens and Parliament, to which now leave only the task of "obedir silent." The vote of 4 December last should have shown that it is not possible to gag a people and ignore their will for too long. To Renzi and Berlusconi, the two party leaders who with this deception hope to avoid a sunset they feel looming, I want to remember that the only outcome of the law imposed with confidence 64 years ago was the decline of the leader who wanted it, De Gasperi (and I apologize for the bold comparison). The scam against the voters you are perpetrating will not bring you luck. With the decision to impose with confidence a bad electoral law suggested and claimed by Verdini and that will bring much benefit to the League - and less bad that the PD calls to frontism xenophobic forces! - with the illusion that the blackmail of a useful vote that has no longer taken on the voters still stands, the PD proves that it is now a prisoner of an unstoppable drift. It is at the mercy of a real detachment from the reality that had already emerged with the referendum of the last four December, that he was convinced to win with low hands. He does not see what happens in Italy, he does not see a social discomfort that grows, despite the reassuring fairy tales about a recovery that no one notices. He does not see what happens to our democracy, close to being submerged by discredit and mistrust. It does not see what is happening in Europe, where there is more and more a threatening wave, caused to a large extent precisely by policies of this kind, by the fact that citizens feel that they are no longer counting anything and are fighting in the wake of a crisis that has only ended on paper. [[Brusio]] President, the buzz is continuous (as far as I'm well trained). Faced with this drift and with this dramatic situation, I believe that we, the Left, have a duty not only political but also ethical and moral to put in place a real, radical and concrete alternative, a plan of society alternative to that pursued by the governments of this legislature, a defence of substantial democracy, a return to the Constitution, as we did in the referendum on 4 December. We have, yes, the obligation to put in place a Left proposal, radically alternative to PD policies, open to all, focused on the defence of rights, on social and environmental justice, today forgotten and trampled on, a participatory process from below. In these five years, the PD more than any other has dragged the country and its institutions into a gorgo that threatens to drag it down. Do your coalition with the Verdini and the Alfano and some other owl list, but this won't save you, this time the blackmail of the useful vote won't work. Only the presence of a fourth pole and a united, plural and radically alternative Left to the PD and its unholy policies of these years can give back voice and hope to young people, women, workers and precarious people who have paid and continue to pay on their own skin the price of these policies. The Senators of the Italian Left, President, colleagues, will vote no, strongly no to this fraud law and on you, Democratic Party, will fall again, as you did trying to break the Constitution, the shame of this yet another slap on the democratic rules and our Constitution. [[Applause from the Mixed-SI-SEL and Art.1-MDP Groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-906.ana.u49	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-906.ana.u50	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-906.ana.u51	ENDRIZZI (M5S). Mr President, in these five years of the legislature, if we look up and retrace history, let us see one thing: the light of democracy made dimer. It is on this gloom that the thieves count, who now try to permanently detach the wires, disable the security systems and take possession of the citizens' vote. And I point my finger at the Democratic Party, with the gloating complicity of Forza Italia and Lega! [[Applause from the M5S Group]] Not their voters, but this nomenclature of nominations, full of their fake majority, inflated by an unconstitutional law, the Porcellum. And we saw this arrogance at work. Things never happened, at least in Republican times. There are at least five small, great coups - see how you think, depending on the convenience - of the single party: the first, in the opening of the legislature, the unusual re-election of President of the Republic of Giorgio Napolitano, the automatic pilot who guaranteed your system of power, while outside the palace the citizens, even of your part, invoked the name of Rodotà. The second, in 2015, the imposition of another electoral law with confidence, the Italicum, also unconstitutional. You're old-fashioned. It's your trademark. You have conceived it in art only for a Chamber, generating chaos: you are dangerous! [[Applause from the M5S Group]] The third is to twist the Constitution by hand, by leghold traps, by removing senators from the Commission. You woke up on December 4th, buried by the 20 million votes of those who preferred the Constitution of Pertini and Calamandrei to that of Renzi, Boschi, Verdini and Alfano. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] The fourth: you have rocketed votes everywhere, between more than 500 turncoats and ad hoc-designed parliamentary groups, with the roughest part of the center-right. With them you shared all the laws shame, covered with deceptive names: the jobs act, which condemned young people to precarious or to emigrate; the good school, which has blackmailed Italian professors; the unblocking Italy, which gave our seas to oilmen; the Boccaduters, to pocket public funding without controls; the dozen of bank-saving measures, charging the price to citizens and businesses. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] On the other hand, you have sunk down the law against vitality, to guarantee your privileges! [[Applause from the M5S Group]] The fifth coup is in place: what you called Rosatellum, to conceal Verdini's paternity, again rigs the voting rules, a few months after the elections, to allow a group of capibastons to appoint two thirds of the next Chambers, with eight votes of confidence! Before you, the government had placed trust in the electoral law only twice and the most famous was the one on the Acerbo-Mussolini law of 1923. Dear "compañeros" of the PD, do you still recognize yourself as such? With two trusts on two different electoral laws, you dubbed Mussolini. You should be indicted for the apology of fascism! [[Applause from the M5S Group]] But there is no ideology here either: this law underlies an idea of purely business and cooperative politics. It comes from that part of the PD, then left Democrats (SD), which in 2003 claimed, candidly, to have guaranteed Berlusconi not to touch his conflict of interest. It is the PD that, at the beginning of this parliamentary term, has designed, with bad enthusiasm, the Government together with Berlusconi, who in recent years, by collusion or ignavia, has furtively opened the doors to the laws of shame, compromises on justice, when not even disabling or covering up the anti-mafia and anti-corruption laws, and who has joined in three governments with Berlusconian emissaries, such as Alfano, Lorenzin, Lupi and Cicchietto. It is the same party that today gives Berlusconi - who is still here, as a stone guest - the best electoral law possible for him, which produces chaos for an entire country, while he, served by a faithful troop of nominations, will have better ease to act in the turbid. In one stroke you have resettled a multi-condemned person permanently at the head of a political force. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]] Allow him again the shame of the blocked lists, you have designed electoral crowds for pure interest and provided for the most total ungovernability, to justify your attempt to reconstitute the unique party of renzusconian. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] To get this apotheosis of horror, you folded the voter: the vote cast jumps, as treason, from a name to a list, from a list to a name, from a list to another list, from a single-name college to a multi-name college, from a college in the North to one in the South and vice versa, like a pinball, but worse, like a slot machine: you press the button and you think you choose, but there is software that decides for you and eats your money. [[Comments from the PD Group.]] LEPRI (PD). It's your software! Mr Russo (PD). Like Cricket! ENDRIZZI (M5S). You eat the vote! [[Applause from the M5S Group]] Use this crap to get citizens out of the vote, Berlusconi counts on it. What Rosatellum? This is the "bunga bunga" law: an orgy of multi-candidates, where everyone goes with everyone! [[Applause from the M5S Group]] In which the end user is dramatically the same. Don't you see each other? You are two bands, the same band, the same concept as a subject country. [[Comments from the PD Group.]] You, without ideas, without programs, but with the same project: to keep the armchairs and the power at your use and consumption, to continue to sprinkle and to exhaust a Nation in exhaustion. You have done with this law the horrendous mutation that has transformed right and left into the two sides of the same banknote. Everyone will see him at the final vote: the "green" lights that will light up soon on the displays show the sense of this cross of unconfessible interests, in which - listen carefully - the League of Salvini will vote in the same way as Alfano and Verdini, Gasparri will vote as Zanda, Scilipoti will vote as the Finocchiaro, this will vote as Casini and Casini as Calderoli! [[Applause from the M5S Group.]] The League, which calls for greater autonomy in the Regions, is negotiating the return to the fold with Berlusconi, who already rejected the autonomy in 2008. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] And the Südtiroler Volkspartei, which fills its mouth with protection of minorities, in South Tyrol had already prepared the scam law to make the SVP the catcher and prevaricate minorities in its Province! [[Applause from the M5S Group.]] Mr Lezzi (M5S). Bravo! Bravo! ENDRIZZI (M5S). Our no to a shameful rewriting of electoral rules is therefore a political and moral duty. President, in front of the rubble they are leaving Italy, the 5 Star Movement takes on itself a mission. A mission not of force or arrogance, but of progress, civilization and truth. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]] The 5 Star Movement presents the first government program built directly by citizens for citizens, which will bring Italy back to be a normal country. The partycracy (PD, Forza Italia, Lega, Alfano) is setting the table for the big binge: but do you really think to fight ideas with armchairs? Whoever never gives up doesn't stop! [[Applause from the M5S Group.]] When you take the course of a river, all you do is raise its level; liquid democracy reaches the sea. The last thought is for Italian citizens who look at us from outside: it depends on you, only on you. Open your eyes, inform yourselves, be careful. And in the next election we will repeat what we have already seen on December 4, 2016: there were few and resigned paintings, we were 20 million and we were overwhelmed. Now, on the darkest day of democracy, let us look up together and look beyond. Italy, you'll be back free, you'll be back great! [[Applause from the M5S Group. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-906.ana.u52	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-906.ana.u53	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-906.ana.u54	ROMANI Paolo (FI-PdL XVII). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Forza Italia has kept a clear and transparent position throughout the parliamentary process of this electoral bill. We have actively participated in the drafting of the text and we strongly support it in this last vote. This support, of course, is limited to the electoral system, and that is why yesterday we did not take part in the vote of confidence on the articles, not wanting and not being able to trust this Government. A government whose economic, fiscal and labour policies we do not share; a government which, despite some initiatives, remains and has remained isolated and extemporaneous, we consider weak in foreign policy and in Europe. A government clearly expresses the left of this Chamber, to which we feel and are an alternative as a centre-right. It will finally be the citizens who will choose, in the next electoral term, the government of the country, thanks to this law with which we are preparing to vote. [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII]] Let's talk about the measure now. We are convinced that a balanced system between majority and proportional is the most suitable to represent the voter's will and - at the same time - to guarantee stability to the next government, even if there is no majority prize that, in the current political framework, would risk greatly altering the vote. This system can lead to a simplification of the political offer. In a tripolar framework, where an experienced coalition with a governmental vocation such as the centre-right confronts the left, divided today between majority and opposition, and with a party that has made the protest the only proposal, it is the responsibility of Parliament and this House to allow citizens to express themselves through a vote that is then respected by the formation of a stable government. The presence of reasonable barriers and the natural facilitation of the formation of coalitions effectively contrast the endemic habit of the fragmentation of the Italian political system; a phenomenon that we have not always managed to avoid, even within the tendentially bipolar framework that characterized much of the so-called second Republic, although being able to boast a duration of the Governments significantly higher, on average, than those of the first Republic. This system does not give votes to arm government majorities (and would be improper in such a divided scenario), but it faithfully describes the choices of the voter with the proportional quota and forces the parties to strong, credible and rooted candidacies on the territory in the majority share. Therefore, not a prize without merit given to those who have simply obtained a handful of votes more than others, but a recognition of the political proposal that most convinces the citizen, with competent and esteemed men and women, able to administer and govern. [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII]] I would like to say a fair, balanced and respectful bill that, thanks to the unique mechanism, rewards those who are known, esteemed and appreciated on the territory. Today's vote represents an act of responsibility that sees political forces of the majority and the opposition together approve an electoral bill that finds the opposition only of those who do not trust in their credibility in front of the voters. [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII]] We have no fear of sharing this vote even with the majority in government. We do not have them because any criticism that can legitimately be made against this text cannot call into question its constitutionality. We do not have them because we believe that the measure is the best response to the appeal that the Head of State has made to all of us. President Mattarella had asked us to build a clear, effective and homogeneous law between the two branches of Parliament. We do not have them because we have a clear political identity, defined and recognized by our constituents. We do not have them above all because we know the value of the institutions and we know that our task, the task which the citizens have assigned to us, is to honour them by working in parliamentary committees and assemblies and not to humiliate them with inadequate behaviour in these places, in the total contempt of those citizens who in this House cannot make their voice heard except through ours. [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII]] It is in this House that you, Senators of the 5 Star Movement, should have expressed your dissent, in compliance with the rules that guarantee this parliamentary Republic. [[Comments of Senator Montevecchi. Applause from the FI-PdLXVII Group.]] We did not, finally, because we believe it is a right intention to give the word back to the Italians, to respect the will of the elector and to allow the side chosen through the vow to win and govern. We want to win and govern and we are convinced that our proposal, that of a large and cohesive right centre, is the best for Italy. We will enhance our men and women who, thanks to their work in Parliament, on the territory and in local administrations, have acquired the merit and the possibility to give their political passion an even higher constitutional commitment. With the bill under consideration all this is possible. [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII]] It has been a difficult path, Mr President: many hiccups; some obstacles; several hesitations; signed pacts, broken pacts, for party interests and tensions outside the subject under discussion. Forza Italia, however, has demonstrated in every step the capacity and firmness of responsible and pragmatic force, aimed at facilitating the agreement of as many subjects as possible in order to avoid the danger of going to the vote with the fruit of the sentences of the Consulta, condemning the country to instability, amending two laws already incompatible with each other. I remember, in fact, that the so-called Consultellum of the Senate was what remained of the Porcellum, while for the House the sentence intervened on Italicum. The Court therefore, without any legislative will, left it despite two completely opposed systems: the House, a majority prize, blocked capilist and low barrier threshold, at 3%; the Senate, preferences, coalitions and high barricades. We are convinced that the law we are about to pass is the best possible result at the present time, but we would not have been afraid to confront another system, if it had been the only one on which to converge a larger majority than that of the Government. The electoral laws, Mr President, have always been written together. We have never put our own interests before the primary objective: to give the country a law that was homogeneous between the House and the Senate, that respected the judgments of the Constitutional Court, but that was the result of the legislative power of Parliament, the place where citizens are represented. These are the principles and values on which a parliamentary republic is based, and today in this House we write, on behalf of our citizens, a good page in the history of our Republic. We are laying the foundations for the next legislature to be faithful to the will of the Italians, expressed with the vote, respectful of the rules of democracy and able to give the country vigor and prospects. The protest, Mr President, lies in the past; the proposal lies in the future. Let us demonstrate that we are capable of respecting the rules by which our founding fathers have written for us a glorious past, to write together our future. [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-906.ana.u55	We greet the students, accompanying students and teachers of the Istituto comprensivo Primo Circolo - Don Bosco - of Vibo Valentia, who follow our work. Hey, guys. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-906.ana.u56	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-906.ana.u57	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-906.ana.u58	ZANDA (PD). Mr President, I would like to begin by reminding you that there are two points on which the Senate Assembly should be unanimous. The first is that electoral law is a fundamental law of democracy and the second is that for more than twenty years Italy has not been able to give itself a good electoral law. I am not talking about a perfect electoral law, which does not exist, nor about a law that can satisfy everyone, but at least of the same law for the House and Senate, voted by majority and opposition. If we start from here, it becomes clear that the sense of the vote we are about to express goes far beyond the interest of our parties and instead concerns the functioning of democracy and of Parliament, which cannot allow the chance of two laws so different as to make it impossible for the two Chambers to have a uniform composition. In this legislature, attempts to pass an electoral law to replace that Porcellum, which Senator Calderoli today denied, were numerous. We approved the Italicum, then unconstitutional result. At the end of 2013, the Democratic Congressman Giachetti even came to the hunger strike to support his return to Mattarellum. The attempt was empty due to the opposition of many, including my party, even of many who today, out of time, demand that we return to that Mattarellum that then did not help bring to the Assembly. The same script was repeated a few months ago, when the Democratic Party repeatedly proposed the Mattarellum in general indifference, with the exception of the position of one of our political opponents, the North League. As well as the applause in the Chamber for the secret ballot rejection of an important amendment to German proportionality is still burning. The majority were very large, but the free shooters won the same. Today, even those who have sung victory for that rejected amendment ask to go back to the proportionality of which they celebrated the end. These parliamentary events do not help, ladies and gentlemen, but we are now at the moment of the truth, at the end of the parliamentary term, and soon our vote will divide the Assembly not between the right and the left, not between majoritarians and proportionalists, but between those who want to vote not by a law of Parliament, but by the effects of two judgments of the Constitutional Court and those who, on the contrary, want a single law so that the two Chambers have a homogeneous composition. You are well aware of the content of the law named after Mr Rosato; it promotes the representation of the territories and the formation of those coalitions that serve the parties to strengthen political ties. With the single colleges and those lists of only four candidates, which the Court suggested to make them identifiable, the law holds together the characteristics of proportional representation and the majority. The law is the result of a delicate work of mediation between forces of majority and opposition, very different forces and with different interests. In Parliament, when proposals for amendments are made, it would be good if those who put them forward would explain well by which new majority they would be approved because, otherwise, it is just ordinary propaganda. [[Applause from the PD Group]] I thank all the political forces that today with their vote will contribute not only to the approval of the law, but also to preventing the voting by different laws for the House and Senate. In Italy, not since 2013, as I have heard, but since 2011, with the Government chaired by Professor Monti, the parliamentary crushing does not allow homogeneous majorities either on the right or on the left. Since then, for this reason, we have had governments supported by parties on both sides. It is surprising that many screaming today have been among the promoters of those alliances and have supported those governments. [[Applause from the PD Group]] Today we have to ask ourselves a question. Italy absolutely needs the budget law to be passed. If it weren't, we would go to the temporary exercise and I wouldn't even want to think about what the consequences would be for workers, families and all citizens. It is my opinion that the political forces that will contribute to the approval of the budget law will show before the country with this act of responsibility. [[Applause from the PD Group]] The debate that accompanied the gestation of the Rosato law is an example of how a bad discussion can prevent any understanding. We have heard that President Gentiloni is worse than Mussolini and that the Members who are passing the law are nothing more than a handful of elected people. I've heard several senators talk about Fascistellum. We are accustomed to a political polemic of vulgarity and free insults, but we must give ourselves a limit. Two days ago we saw in this House a planned occupation of the government benches, which I am sure will be duly sanctioned. Physical violence in this House is the opposite of democracy. Pushing and strutting parliamentary collaborators, whom I thank very much for their difficult work [[Applause from the PD, FI-PdL XVII, AP-CpE-NCD and Aut groups (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT) - PSI-MAIE]] It's not a proper behavior. Violence is the opposite of democracy. [[Applause from the PD Group and Senator Buemi]] A Parliament that accepts, without reacting and defending itself, that legislative activity within it is interrupted and threatened with violence is a Parliament that must seriously question its functioning. The phrases on fascism and Mussolini, rather than an insult to President Gentiloni Silveri, humiliate those who have really known fascism and all the real anti-fascists who know how to evaluate the differences between then and today. [[Applause from the PD Group]] I say this very seriously to the opposition parliamentarians who use this language. But how do you mean the political debate in Parliament? If you evoke fascism so lightly, it means that you have not understood what tragedy fascism has been for Italy. Do you really think that there is a shred of positive political value in discussing in this way of electoral law? And I ask: how do you see the political future of our country? How do you see your own future if you anticipate it by comparing Gentiloni Silveri to Mussolini? [[Applause from the PD Group]] We are used to hearing that electoral laws are the most political of all laws. It is an expression that can be understood in various ways, but when consensus or opposition to the law reflect the idea that that law will help us win or the fear that it will be you that will make us lose the election, then it is bad politics. To those who will vote against the law because they fear electoral defeat and to those who will vote in favour thinking that they have already won, I say that they do not trust the polls, the simulations and not even the imaginative predictions of Senator Calderoli. The real survey will take place in the first months of 2018, when we go to vote not with a click, as the 5 Star Movement would like. [[Comments of Senator Crimes]] , but with a vote controlled by law, seats and real ballot boxes. [[Applause from the PD, Mixed and Aut groups (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT) - PSI-MAIE and AP-CpE-NCD. Ironic applause from Senator Candiani]] No electoral law has succeeded in winning those who do not have the votes or in losing those who have the votes. With the infamous Porcellum, designed specifically in 2005 to make Mr Prodi lose and win Mr Berlusconi, the center left beat Berlusconi twice. This Parliament too has a very different composition from what the polls had announced. This is well known by the 5 Star Movement, of which in 2013 no one predicted the many consents he received and which he then wasted with unnecessary noisy and even violent parliamentary activity. [[Applause from the PD Group]] Elected with one click, lost half of the senators, and even more lost in the next election. [[Applause from the PD Group]] I repeat: the real survey will be done with the vote at the beginning of 2018. In the last few days, however, one issue has kept the field and I do not want to evade it: whether it is correct to pass an electoral law with trusted votes. I leave out any comment on how in recent decades all governments have felt the need to use firmly the vote of confidence in an attempt to remedy the difficulties of Parliament's decision-making capacity. President Napolitano mentioned this yesterday, and I must remind you that Presidents Berlusconi, Prodi, Monti, Letta, Renzi and, finally, Gentiloni were in this need. All, all of them, the Presidents of the last twenty-five years. I say this reluctantly, but with our equal bicameralism and with such a fragmented political system, trust has in fact become a usual tool, used by all right-wing governments or left-wing governments, in an attempt to make very shaky institutions work, as possible. For these reasons the governments of recent years have put their trust not only in measures of their own initiative, but also in draft parliamentary laws. In this parliamentary term, the law on civil unions, which was also of parliamentary origin, was adopted with confidence. And as soon as we have the certainty that we have the necessary votes, I would very much welcome a government decision to put confidence in the ius solo, which is not a government measure, before the end of this legislature. [[Applause from the PD, Misto-SI-SEL and Aut (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT) and PSI-MAIE groups. Ironic applause from Senator Candiani]] It has been said, however, that electoral laws are not approved with confidence. By judgment No 35 of this year, the Constitutional Court declared inadmissible the remarks raised on the decision to put trust in electoral laws. So, if we are inside the Constitution, asking for or not asking for trust is an exquisitely political act and so we have to judge it. We must also assess it in the light of the sensitivity and risks associated with the current institutional, legal and political moment. Can we pretend that we do not know that Italy is only now emerging from an economic and social crisis that has lasted for more than ten years and that in order not to go back it needs a Parliament at least homogeneous in the composition of the two chambers? Can we take the risk that a slap, with the secret vote, will make us go to the vote with two profoundly different laws? Can we further weaken our Parliament at an international stage in which the risks of peace are very high and the atomic threat has even been retreated? Can we go to Europe, trying to assert our rights, with an elected Parliament with two different laws? If I have to tell you my opinion, with more than a hundred secret votes, built, as has been seen, in order to favour the ambushes, the vote of confidence in the House of Deputies was very simply worth having an important law put to the vote by a clear ballot, which, on the contrary, as has already happened, would certainly have fallen into one of the traps of secret votes. [[Comments from M5S and LN-Aut Groups.]] And I take the opportunity to say that the way the secret vote has been reduced I am firmly opposed to its use. It is no longer a vote of conscience, but a vote of political manoeuvre. [[Applause from the PD, Aut (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT) and PSI-MAIE and AP-CpE-NCD Groups]] This is demonstrated by the fact that there is a movement here that has always declared itself against the secret vote and in order to favor the ambushes on this law yesterday asked for the secret vote. [[Applause from the PD and Aut Group (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT) and Senator Fucksia]] At the Senate, trust was not only an equally necessary decision, but also an assumption of political responsibility, not only because, truly irresponsible, about fifty amendments were submitted to the Senate that could be voted secretly and visibly instrumental, but also because of the need not to superimpose the electoral law with the budget law. The Senators and Senators of the PD will vote for the new electoral law and will do so in view of its content, but also knowing that today the division between us is between those who work to give stability to a new legislature, composed of two Chambers in a homogeneous way, and those who work thinking they can draw some political advantage from two different electoral laws, never approved by Parliament and destined to produce parliamentary impotence and weakness of government. [[Applause from the PD, Mixed and Aut groups (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT) - PSI-MAIE).Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-906.ana.u59	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote in dissent from my Group.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-906.ana.u60	I take note of that and give you the floor.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-906.ana.u61	ZIN (Aut (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT)-PSI-MAIE). Mr President, it is clear that we are faced with a government which, together with its parliamentary allies, marginalizes almost five million Italian citizens living abroad, from now on, ladies and gentlemen, second-class citizens. After degrading the consular network, today we are witnessing an attempt to strike at the credibility of the vote abroad. This Government has in fact decided to give Italians resident in Italy the opportunity to apply also abroad, instead denying the citizens of the foreign college the possibility to apply in any college of the national territory: citizens of series B. To participate in the life of Parliament through its representatives is precisely the meaning of the Tremaglia law, which is distorted by the present electoral bill. As if that were not enough, all this is added to the prohibition of being able to apply abroad for all those who have held a post of Government (literative or not) in the country of residence in the previous five years. Once again, Mr President, B-series citizens. Perhaps, Mr President, any future candidates in the largest South American country feel threatened politically because of this maneuver? In conclusion, Mr President, I would like to make it clear that, contrary to certain voices of the corridor, the Italian Association Movement abroad (MAIE) will not apply to its list anywhere in the world for any Italian citizen residing in Italy. As a representative of the MAIE, I shall vote against this draft electoral law, which is in disagreement with the Group to which I belong. [[Applause from the Mixed Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-906.ana.u62	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote in dissent from my Group.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-906.ana.u63	I take note of that and give you the floor.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-906.ana.u64	SACCONI (AP-CpE-NCD). Mr President, in dissent from my group, I am voting against an electoral law which seems to correspond more to contingent political needs than to a sustainable institutional design. This law does not, in fact, meet either of the two aims of an electoral model (representation and governability) or achieves a reasonable balance between them. Representation is a prevailing criterion in our constitutional dictation and would lead many voters to return to the vote with the aim of choosing their own party, their own principles, their own political culture, their own parliamentarians, even better if with a vote of preference, to vote in short for and not against a political project. On the other hand, it is easy to assume that the majority correction discourages this propensity, inducing large coalitions, without rewarding them to the point of being self-sufficient for the future Government. This leads to the absurd situation whereby the law at the same time encourages a coalition and plans its dissolution the day after the result, with the immediate return to the ballot box, with the effect of making the electorate guilty and fragile in the contents of the government a possible compromise between political forces that opposed the election campaign. On the other hand, why should that meeting between the left and the people that did not work in this parliamentary term work tomorrow? In fact, all the measures that have not absorbed but exalted our more than twenty years of judicial anomaly have been divided have been the ethically sensitive laws, which I hope will not be added any more in the coming weeks; the same economic and social measures have proved unsatisfactory, because they have not reduced our delay compared to the other major countries of the Union. I am therefore afraid that I am an easy prophet soon assuming a new electoral law, but the cost in terms of trust in our democracy could be very high in the meantime. [[Applause from Senator Bignami.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-906.ana.u65	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote in dissent from my Group.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-906.ana.u66	I take note of that and give you the floor.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-906.ana.u67	DE PIN (GAL (DI, GS, PPI, RI)). Mr President, my vote is certainly against this third unconstitutional electoral law, which is also just a few months after the elections; an electoral law which is the result of yet another incident behind the scenes and which perpetuates a political class that feeds this disastrous system. The usual parties will do the dirty work of the European Union, making people believe that it is necessary to sacrifice themselves for a greater good, which is nothing more than that of the financial markets (we think about the robbery of savers or the law in favour of pharmaceutical multinationals) and the wealth of a few people to the detriment of the people, who can no longer have children, cure themselves, allow their children to study and, above all, retire at a decent age. I can only vote against this electoral law, which corresponds to the interests of the few. There must be no blocked lists; we must vote with preference, with which citizens can really choose. I conclude, Mr President, by saying that violence is often disguised as democracy. [[Applause from Senator Bignami.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-906.ana.u68	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-906.ana.u69	You have the right to an announcement of a vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-906.ana.u70	BERTACCO (Misto-FdI-AN). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Brothers of Italy will vote no, because this is a law conceived in a scientific way to prevent the birth of a government that is the result of a homogeneous group of coalition programmes. We asked for preferences and a majority prize, because we think of politics as a service to the citizens. We believe in merit that you earn in the field and not because you are prone to party secretariats. We would have liked our parliamentarians to be chosen by the voters. For these reasons and many others, which I cannot explain for reasons of time, Brothers of Italy vote firmly no to a law which, in fact, considers the vow of its people to be rag paper. We are still convinced that electoral laws are for the sake of the citizens, not the parties, the voters and not the elected ones.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-906.ana.u71	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-906.ana.u72	You have the floor for a short announcement of your vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-906.ana.u73	AMIDEI (Mist). Mr President, thank you for giving me a few seconds, because this is how Italian citizens feel today: they feel that they do not have the opportunity to speak. So, you're right to give me a few seconds. It is unfair not to have produced a law, which could be implemented, which would represent the will of citizens through a preference, as is the case with the European election system and the regional system. Why not do that with the national system? So, Mr President, thank you, because I feel like a citizen. Today I have the presumption to say that I feel that I do not have the opportunity to speak, and that is why I will not participate in the vote: because Italian citizens will not participate in the vote today. Indeed, if it is true that having a law is necessary, it is even more essential to have a just law for a just democracy. Today the citizen does not express himself and therefore I, representing this - and pass, Mr President, the presumption of being a street citizen as I boast to be - will not participate in the vote because I do not feel represented. [[Applause from Senator Lucidi.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-906.ana.u74	Pursuant to Rule 120 (3) of the Rules of Procedure, I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of bill No 2941, as a whole. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. [[See Annex B. Applause from the PD and FI-PdL XVII Groups.]] Consequently, the draft law no. 2621, 2726, 2749, 2762, 2793, 2843, 2876, 2905, 2911 and 2938. As already announced, the Conference of Presidents of the parliamentary groups is convened. The sitting is suspended. (The sitting was suspended at 12 noon and resumed at 12.28 p.m.)
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-906.ana.u75	The session is resumed. Ladies and gentlemen, the Conference of Leaders approved the timetable for the work of the budgetary session. In relation to the timing of transmission of the draft budget law, the President will make the communications, pursuant to Rule 126, paragraphs 3 and 4 of the Rules of Procedure, on the content of the measure on Tuesday 31 October at 5 p.m. The budget session will begin from then on. The week from 6 to 10 November will be reserved for the work of the Commissions on the draft budget law and Decree-Law No 148 on financial matters, presented to the Senate. The discussion of the latter measure will take place in the single sitting, without closing hours, on Wednesday 15, Thursday 16 and, if necessary, on Friday 17 November, beginning at 9.30 a.m. The Commission will have to submit its reports on the draft budget to the 5th standing Commission by Wednesday 8 November. The Budget Commission will report to the Assembly on Tuesday afternoon, 21 November. For the examination of the measure, the calendar provides for unique sessions without closing hours until Saturday, November 25, if necessary. Amendments will have to be tabled no later than 6 p.m. on Monday 20 November. Finally, at the request of the President of the Democratic Party Group, the Presidency Council is convened at 3 p.m. on Tuesday 31 October to assess what happened in this House during the debate on electoral reform.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-906.ana.u76	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-906.ana.u77	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-906.ana.u78	ENDRIZZI (M5S). Mr President, as has already been said at the Conference of Leaders, I would like to point out that a timetable based on a virtual bill is taken for granted here, because to date there is no draft budget law, but it is already on the calendar. It is now too obvious for the Italians that the times here have been set to block access to the Assembly to the provision on the abolition of vitalities: first with a mad race on electoral law, compressing the times of debate, examination and therefore the possible amendmentability, as even the Senator for Life Giorgio Napolitano has recognized; and now establishing that the budgetary session will necessarily begin on Tuesday on a text that has not yet been received. The request of the 5 Star Movement group is instead the following. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs has already virtually completed its examination of the measure, since only 200 amendments remain to be voted on, and almost all of them have been tabled by the Forza Italia and PD groups, the new axis for the next political elections: these 200 amendments, however, we can vote on them in one afternoon, since we have seen 170 amendments on the electoral law voted in just a few minutes. I therefore ask that the draft law on the abolition of vitalities be brought to the Chamber on Tuesday, regardless of the conclusion of its examination. Moreover, since the House is convened at 5 p.m. on Tuesday, I think there is plenty of time to work this weekend and also the beginning of the next week.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-906.ana.u79	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-906.ana.u80	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-906.ana.u81	WAR (Art. 1-MDP). Mr President, I would like to repeat what I said at the Conference of Leaders: the fact that there is this 15-day delay - and we hope that there are many, but we will see - in presenting the draft budget bill to the House once again restricts the possibility for this House and the other branch of Parliament to discuss with the necessary deepening a law which, from the point of view of the economy, is particularly important for our country. I think that this should be stigmatised and that verb of course has a negative meaning.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-906.ana.u82	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-906.ana.u83	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-906.ana.u84	DE PETRIS (Misto-SI-SEL). Mr President, I think it is very serious that we had to hold a conference of group leaders in the dark. This has embarrassed both you and all of us because you have made a proposal, but to date we do not know whether this draft budget law has arrived at the Quirinale, whether it has been completed or whether we will have any chance of observing the deadlines set out in the proposed timetable. This means that we will once again risk having limited time. I remember that Wednesday, November 1st is a feast. We can also convene on that day, but in any case, inevitably, once the examination of the draft budget law has begun in the Senate, we will risk having very compressed times for the examination of the measure, hoping that it will not end, as always, with the imposition of trust. President. - I call the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and That is why I thought that perhaps it would be better to have easier working times for this House and for the Commissions. PRESIDENT. - The debate is The only proposal of variation is therefore the one put forward by Senator Endrizzi.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-906.ana.u85	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-906.ana.u86	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-906.ana.u87	ENDRIZZI (M5S). Mr President, I take note of your words, but I do not find them compatible with reality, in the sense that the Senate is already examining the tax decree in the Budget Committee and it is not possible to oblige the Commission to work on both measures at the same time. If I understood correctly, you said that in the coming weeks, before I arrive in this House, the Budget Commission will have to deal with a measure that is not yet in place. How can we bind our work to two measures both to the examination of the Senate, one linked to the other, with contents that will be defined when one could impact on the other's contents? I cannot understand this, unless we are trying to find a timetable which will block the inclusion on the agenda of the abolition of vitalities. There are two requests: to give the budget committee the opportunity to examine the measures one after the other; between these two, the tax decree proceeds and the budget law stops. Since the budget session cannot begin, since the text is not there, we have a duty to abolish the junk of vitality and bring the relevant measure to the House. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] The House must take responsibility and say so before the Italians. We approve of it in the House and then...
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-906.ana.u88	He had already made this proposal. It's no different than the previous one.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-906.ana.u89	ENDRIZZI (M5S). The same is true of anti-corruption law. So the request is to bring the vitals measure to the House and not to open the budget session.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-906.ana.u90	Nobody has opened the budget session which, according to the Rules of Procedure, is opened after the communications to the Assembly. We're planning a forecast schedule. If the forecasts do not come true, the Conference of Leaders will meet again and we will set the timetable that will be necessary. ENDRIZZI (M5S). Then I ask for a linear and not byzantine writing. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. It's not Byzantine.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-906.ana.u91	A week ago, when you arranged the schedule for the Assembly's work on the draft electoral law, you anticipated that there would be a possibility in relation to any news received by the Government on the budget law. Then I ask you to do the same. As has been said to work on the electoral law and, if the budget law had arrived, we would have assessed, I would ask that the provision on the vitals be put on the timetable and then, if the budget law comes, we will see.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-906.ana.u92	Senator Endrizzi, the Assembly will now decide on your request for variation. The House will, as always, be sovereign and decide. That's the rule. I'm begging the senators to get to their seats. I then proceed to the vote by show of hands of Senator Endrizzi's request for a change in the calendar, in the sense of delaying the calendarization of the draft budget law, inserting instead the examination of the measure on the abolition of vitalities. This is Senator Endrizzi's request. [[Senator Endrizzi's comments.]] We understand the reasons. I have reiterated the text that we are going to vote for those who have to vote. I do not propose to delay the budget law, but to insert the vitality.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-906.ana.u93	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-906.ana.u94	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-906.ana.u95	ZANDA (PD). Mr President, we took part a few minutes ago in the Conference of Leaders, which was convened to determine the timetable for the work of the budget law. I believe that any other proposal is unacceptable because the Conference of Leaders had been convened for a specific objective and, if we had to discuss other issues, it would have been convened on another agenda. I believe that a rule must be followed because it is not possible for anyone to rise up and make demands outside the logic of parliamentary work. [[Applause from the PD Group. Comments from the M5S Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-906.ana.u96	The same request was made at the Conference of Leaders.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-906.ana.u97	The request to delay the timetable with the inclusion is admissible and capable of voting. [[Senator Lezzi's comments.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-906.ana.u98	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-906.ana.u99	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-906.ana.u100	COMAROLI (LN-Aut). Mr President, I apologise for the delay. I would like to point out that the Budget Commission will need to work intensively the following week on the planned one. If the deadline for tabling amendments is presumably 10 November, given the delay because the budget law has not yet reached the Senate, it will probably be the following week when we will work intensively because, for the tax decree, there will be work to do, but as for all other decree-laws. It's important the next one.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-906.ana.u101	As has always been the case, the deadline for tabling amendments can be revised and shifted in relation to needs. As always, we will have the opportunity to evaluate this possible shift. I repeat: these are forecasts. I put to the vote the proposal to amend the timetable for the Assembly's work to include the discussion of the measure on the abolition of vitalities, put forward by Senator Endrizzi. It's not approved. I'll take the rehearsal. I order the doors closed. We proceed to counter-test by electronic procedure. It's not approved.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-906.ana.u102	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-906.ana.u103	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-906.ana.u104	Mr Giovanardi (PL-Id) Mr President, I would like to ask for an answer to the question 2-00485, presented to Minister Fedeli, on a case of hateful discrimination against Italian children and non-EU children. While the Minister of Sports has rightly allowed non-EU students, enrolled in sports clubs, to participate in the championships in their sectors of participation, vice versa the MIUR prevented the participation of children, enrolled in a legally recognized private school, the São Paulo di Parma, in the student championships. Italian and non-EU students are enrolled in this private school. I find it difficult to understand how children enrolled in a legally recognized school who ask to participate in the student championships can hear from the MIUR, to which they have addressed, that their participation is not possible. I would point out that there is no burden on the state, because the children and their companions in this school pay for their participation. I therefore ask the Minister to remove this hateful discrimination because all children are equal, whatever kind of school they attend. It is therefore right that these youngsters should not be inhibited by participating with their colleagues in the student championships, which are a great moment of participation and exaltation of the principles of sport. I therefore ask the Minister to give an urgent answer to my questioning, naturally hoping that this hateful discrimination will be removed.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-906.ana.u105	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-906.ana.u106	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-906.ana.u107	CANDIANI (LN-Aut). Mr President, while we were discussing electoral law and all the other amenities that have been occupying the television screens and newspaper pages over the last few days, and which are far from the problems of the citizens, I received on my e-mail box the paycheck of a firefighter. I am talking about a firefighter, who has been employed indefinitely since 1983, with about thirty-five years of service. President, I read you the numbers of the paycheck: salary 1.752 euros; other cheques 604 euros; considered social security 268 euros; considered tax 471 euros; other retained 271 euros; tax balances, etc. Net total 1,341 euros; 5th cedible 314 euros. This is a person who has been working for thirty-five years as a firefighter and has to manage, including the whole family, with more or less 1,000 euros per month. These are the problems to solve. These are the arguments on which we demand answers from the Government. We are talking about a firefighter, but we could talk about a police officer, a security agent or any other worker who in Italy sees his salary cut in half, between taxes and everything else. The cost of labour, the difficulty for companies to be on the market, the difficulties for workers to move forward with a salary that does not even allow them to maintain a family. These are the points on which we want the government to take action and these are the commitments that we ask the government for the next budget law, otherwise you will have once again talked about things that the country does not care about.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-906.ana.u108	On behalf of the Assembly I greet the students and students of the Istituto comprensivo (including Novio Atellano) of Frattaminore, in the province of Naples, who have followed this glimpse of our works. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-906.ana.u109	The motions, questions and questions received by the Presidency will be published in Annex B to today's report.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-906.ana.u110	The Senate will meet again in public session on Tuesday 31 October, at 5 p.m., with the following agenda: (See agenda) The sitting was closed at 12.48 p.m.
