ParlaMint-IT_2017-02-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-762.ana.u1	The sitting is open (9.31 a.m.). The Minutes shall be read. Mr Berger, Secretary, read the Minutes of the afternoon sitting of the previous day. PRESIDENT. - The debate is Since there were no comments, the Minutes were approved.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-02-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-762.ana.u2	The list of senators on leave and absent on assignment received from the Senate, as well as further communications to the Assembly, will be published in Annex B to today's Minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-02-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-762.ana.u3	I would warn you that qualified votes can be taken in the course of today's sitting by electronic means. Therefore, from this moment the period of 20 minutes from the notice provided for in Article 119, paragraph 1, of the Regulation (9:34 hours) begins.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-02-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-762.ana.u4	The next item is the debate on draft law No 2630. The rapporteur, Senator Collina, has requested authorisation to carry out the oral report. No comments were made and the request was accepted. I therefore call the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-02-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-762.ana.u5	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, senators and representatives of the Government, the draft law for the conversion of Decree-Law No 244 of 2016 extending and defining terms is now before the House. This is the decree that the Government adopts at annual intervals to ensure the efficiency and effectiveness of the action of the various administrations concerned in the presence of the expiration of time limits provided for by legal provisions that it is considered necessary to move in order to allow the achievement of the objectives worthy of protection not achieved in the pre-established terms. The measure, while noting the difficulties of a system that fails to be punctual in the fulfilment of the obligations provided for by law, is an instrument of enormous importance in order to give a solution, albeit partial, to the various problems related to the failure to implement laws and to face some emergency situations that have come to manifest themselves in the last few months. Think, for example, of the problems of the earthquake of Central Italy, which finds in this measure a part of the solutions expected by the affected populations, to which are added those contained in the decree-law on the earthquake now under consideration by the Chamber of Deputies. The periodic re-proposing of this measure, often with heterogeneous content, is highlighted by several parts as a structural difficulty of our political-administrative system, which however can be overcome (and something has been done in this direction in recent years). The enactment of delegated legislative decrees for the reform of public administration is the concrete example of a virtuous path: they represent an extraordinary tool to address the issues I have mentioned. Responsibility, evaluation, rewards and penalties are the four pillars of public administration reform around which to build greater efficiency of the administrative machinery, necessary not only to improve working conditions in the public administration and its relationship with citizens and businesses, but also to reduce in a very significant way the problems related to the relationship with the legislator and, consequently, to the postponement of the deadline. Another possible way forward, but at the same time innovative and interesting, is the emphasis on parliamentary work in order to verify the results of the evaluation of public policies. This is an activity which today the Italian Parliament carries out in a very sporadic way, entrusting it to the power of inspection union, which is exercised mainly through the question of other inspection instruments and which, however, does not seem sufficient to achieve the aim and to achieve acceptable results. Working in this direction and engaging the Commissions in a work to monitor the rules, their effect and effectiveness over time seems indispensable to me, as well as useful to Parliament and the country. Although we are aware of the situation, we believe that the enactment of the decree-milleproroghe law, today before the Assembly, represents a passage of fundamental importance in order not to find ourselves faced with even greater problems in the coming months. During the examination in the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, the measure was the subject of a thorough discussion and 96 amending proposals were adopted, with all political, majority and opposition forces taking the lead. I shall confine myself to describing now the main changes made to the measure. Article 1 contains a series of provisions for extensions in the field of public administration, including: the extension of the rankings of public competitions approved after the date of entry into force of Decree-Law No 101 of 2013; the extension of the rankings of competitions launched by the prison administration; the extension of the suspension of the recruitment of first-class public managers; the postponement of the time limits for recruitment of personnel in certain public administrations and for the temporary use of municipal secretaries by the Department of Public Service; the extension of the authorisations for recruitments for the security-defense sector and the National Firefighters Corps; the postponement of the time limits for the implementation of the prohibition for public administrations to conclude collaboration contracts organized by the client; the extension of the deadline for the conclusion of the public selection procedure launched by the Ministry of Heritage and Cultural Activities and Tourism; the extension to 2017 of the recruitment powers of the Ministry of the Environment; the extension of the operation of the Special Operations Unit for Expo Milano 2015; the extension of the operation of the Agency's Commissioner for the 20th Winter Olympic Games in Turin 2006. A number of other measures also concern local and regional authorities. In particular, the Provinces are allowed to extend fixed-term employment contracts and co-ordinated and continuous collaboration contracts, as well as the extension of the possibility for the Provinces and Metropolitan Cities to conclude fixed-term employment contracts relating to services provided by employment centres. Moreover, until 31 December 2017, the continuation of fixed-term employment relationships with the Regions under Special Statute and their territorial authorities is foreseen and the extension of the time limits relating to extraordinary insolvency proceedings by the National Health Service bodies for the conclusion of flexible employment contracts by the same bodies. During the examination in the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, further measures were approved, including the authorisation, for the penitentiary administration, to assume 887 units in the initial role of the Prison Police Corps through the sliding of the rankings published on a date not before 1 January 2012, the extension of the service requirements for participation in the competitive procedures banned by the Higher Institute of Health, the extension of the deadline for the designation, by the Antitrust, of one or more competitive procedures for the permanent classification of employees with fixed-term contracts, the definition of a different duration of the appointment as Commissioner of Covip, the extension, until the entry into force of the national statistical programme 2017-2019 and in any case no later than 30 November 2017, of the national statistical programme 2014-2016, in order to fulfil the regulatory obligations of official statistical information to the country and international bodies. To this has been added, precisely in the late evening, the approval of the measure that concerns the precarious of the National Institute of Statistics (ISTAT), a topic much debated and that has occupied us in these days in the search for an adequate solution, to which the Government has given significant response. Article 2 contains a series of extensions in the field of publishing, including the extension of the term in office of the members of the National Council of Journalists and Members of the Regional Councils of the same order; the extension by one year of the period from which the traceability of the sales and returns of newspapers and periodicals becomes mandatory; the restoration, until the adoption of the new postal tariffs, of the preferential regime applicable to shipments of editorial products made by the publishing companies of newspapers and periodicals registered in the register of communications operators, by the publishing companies of books, by non-profit associations and organisations registered in the same register and by the gun associations and combatants. During the examination in the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, measures were adopted to postpone the application of provisions affecting the contribution to publishing companies. Moreover, to the next three years has been limited the custody to Poste Italiane SpA of the shipments object of the tariff concessions, in order to allow to such society the depreciation of the necessary activities of universal service. Article 3 introduces extensions in the field of labour and social policies. In particular, the possibility of a derogation from the maximum duration limits of the extraordinary wage integration intervention is expected for 2017. In paragraph 2, the time limit for the application of the current rules on the registers of workers exposed to carcinogens and biological agents shall be extended. Paragraph 3 differs from 2017 to 2018 from the beginning of a new time regime for the payment of pension and welfare benefits. To the original measures of the decree-law are added the relative measures: the postponement from 1 January 2017 to 1 January 2018 of the effect of certain rules on compulsory placement; the deferment of one year of the beginning of the obligation of the telematic mode for the holding of the single labour book; the deferment of the period of effect of the obligation - at the expense of the employer and the manager - of the telematic communication to INAIL, for statistical and informative purposes, of the data relating to the accidents involving the absence from work of at least one day, excluding that of the event; the extension of the payments in favour of the heirs of the benefits for patients of mesothelioma deceased in 2016; the provisions that favor the return of the "brains" in our country; the provisions on the revaluation of pensions. Article 4 contains a number of provisions on education, universities and research. In particular, among other measures, I would stress: the extension of school building deadlines is envisaged; universities are allowed to extend by one year the term of the fixed-term researcher contracts of "type b"; the period from 2019-2020 to the school year from which the inclusion in the Circle or Institute rankings can take place only after the qualification has been obtained; the conventional relationships activated by the provincial school office in Palermo for the performance of functions corresponding to those of school collaborator is extended by one year and the deadline for the identification of regulatory solutions to the employment problems associated with the same relationships differs by 31 December 2017. To the original provisions of the measure are added: the extension of the deadline for the adaptation to the fire regulations for buildings and premises used for day-care as at 31 December 2017; the provisions for the call in the role of first and second-class professors, second-class professors and researchers; the revision of the discipline of the election of territorial councils of psychologists' orders; the postponement to 31 December 2021 of the deadline within which the final diplomas of the institutions of high-education and specialization in artistic and musical (AFAM) awarded to the outcome of the training courses of the order provided for in Law No 508 of 1999 must be achieved for the purpose of the equivalence to second-level academic diplomas, awarded by the same institutions in accordance with the current legislation; the extension to the school year 2016-2017 of the possibility to draw on the national graduations to be exhausted provided for in Article 2- bis of Decree-Law No 97 of 2004 (converted by Law No 143 of 2004), for the assignment of teaching assignments to permanent and determined in the AFAM institutions; the provisions on the scientific certification and suitability for teaching posts for university institutes; the provisions for university institutes; the assignments to be added to the provisions relating to the provisions relating to the provisions relating to the educational institutions. With regard to this last article, I would like to point out the presence of an agenda, which acknowledges the work that in recent days is being carried out by the Italian National Association of Municipalities (ANCI) - and hence the local authorities - and the Ministry of Education, University and Research regarding the compliance of school buildings, in accordance with the current fire regulations. An important and in-depth census has been made of over 40,000 school buildings, highlighting the need to adjust a little more than half of them. Therefore, the municipalities and the Ministry are preparing an intervention plan, which can also draw on funds from the Ministry, for the setting up of fire prevention of school buildings. We are talking about EUR 900 million over three years and therefore an important plan, which shows how the Ministry and local authorities are dealing with this issue in a concrete way. Therefore, the extension we are discussing at first sight represents something difficult to understand, but in reality it involves serious work, which Municipalities and Ministry are carrying out. Article 5 contains provisions on the internal and security matters, including the extension of time limits for the promotion of senior management and access to the status of first manager of the State Police; the extension of the deadline for self-certifications of regularly resident non-Community foreigners; the extension of the deadline for replacement powers of the prefect in case of non-approval of the budget of the local authorities; the extension of the deadline for special accounting for the three Provinces of Monza and Brianza, Fermo and Barletta-Andria-Trani; the extension of the period for the exercise in combination of the fundamental functions of the small municipalities and the extension of the deadline for a simplified procedure for access to the qualifications of head of team and head of department of the National Firefighters' Corps; the extension of the deadline for the prevention of crimes with international terrorist purposes and the extension of the deadline for the use of sworn guards on board ships prepared for the defence of acts of piracy. Finally, the time limits relating to the repartition of the Experimental Fund for provincial rebalancing and to the erial transfers for the Provinces of Sardinia and Sicily were extended and the deadline for the resolution of the annual forecast budgets of the local authorities for the year 2017 was extended. During the examination in the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, a number of measures were adopted, including the extension of the deadline for the submission of a preliminary request for fire safety by private bodies and undertakings and the extension of the provisions relating to the fire safety of hotels. Article 6 contains a series of provisions on economic development and communication, including the extension of one year of the ban on proprietary cross-breeds which prevents persons exercising television activity at national level on any platform, which result in revenues exceeding 8% of the Integrated Communications System (SIC), and undertakings in the electronic communications sector which hold a share of more than 40% of the revenues of that sector to acquire holdings in publishing companies of newspapers or to participate in the formation of new publishing companies of newspapers, excluding those distributed only in electronic mode; the extension, for 2017, of the agreement concluded between the Ministry of Economic Development and the production centre SpA holding the radio station Radicale, for the radio transmission of parliamentary sessions, authorising the expenditure of 10 million euros; the extension of the maximum period of validity of the current legal reform of the concessionary relationship with the RAI relating to the public service, television and multimedia, for the purposes of the entry into force of the decree of the Council of Ministers which will entrust the concession again; the extension of the conditions for the implementation of the public service contracts included in the accounts of the financial accounts of the financial accounts of the financial accounts of the financial accounts entered into the financial accounts of the financial accounts of the last four months of the general government. During the examination in the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, various provisions were approved including a rule on competitions for the assignment of public spaces for so-called streetwalks that does without prejudice to the agreements already reached between the representative organizations of the sector, the municipalities and the regions and that identifies the path for the alignment of the legislation in the territories where such agreements and the consequent notices have not yet been discussed. Changes to the structure of the tariff components of the general system charges. The amendment, for clarification purposes, provides for the repeal of previous rules and reports the different percentage rates to the new tax criterion. The proposal on ILVA Group companies in extraordinary administration that adapts the deadlines already provided for in previous provisions for the transfer to third parties of the ILVA Group business complexes, in order to make the tendering procedure compatible with the times of the regulatory procedures established. Finally, we note the proposal for the Expo 2015 event aimed at simplifying the plans for the conclusion of the liquidation plan of the Expo company. Article 7 lays down health provisions, including a one-year extension of the deadline for the adoption of a review of the system of government of the pharmaceutical sector and the relative remuneration of the distribution chain and the extension of the deadline for certain prohibitions and conditions relating to animal procedures for scientific or educational purposes. On this last point, an amendment to the Committee on Constitutional Affairs was adopted, which further broadens the time limits for the extension. In addition, measures have been envisaged to facilitate the coverage of pharmaceutical establishments that have remained vacant and the institution for rehabilitation and training Anmil ONLUS has been refinanced. Article 8 lays down provisions on defence. In particular, there is an intervention on Article 2248 of the Code of Military Law referred to in Legislative Decree no. 66 of 2010, in order to extend for one year the transitional regime of advancement of rank for officers of the Carabinieri Arm. It extends to the year 2017 the validity of the maximum limits in force of extraordinary work allowed for the staff of the police corps; it is previewed the extension from the budget 2016 to the budget 2017 of the time within which the productive units managed from the agency industries defense will have to meet the objective of the economic management. The legislative decree n. 177 of 2016 is announced in order to entrust, until June 30, 2017, the management of the operations of closing the accounts of the State Forestry Corps to the offices of the General Command of the Carabinieri Arm, with the coordination of the head of the State Forestry Corps currently in service. Finally, there is a specific provision concerning the payment of the compulsory contribution for compulsory registration of the Armed Forces Welfare Fund by the personnel of the State Forestry Corps who have passed through the Carabinieri's Arm. During the examination in the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, the term of office of the military representatives was extended and the effectiveness of the rules on the replacement allowance of the military companion was extended. Article 9 lays down provisions on infrastructure and transport. In particular, the extension of the deadline for the completion of the operation of the commissioner management aimed at the definitive closure of the infrastructural interventions in the municipalities of the Campania, Basilicata, Puglia and Calabria regions affected by the seismic events of November 1980 and February 1981; the extension to 31 December 2017 of the entry into force of the decree of the Minister of Infrastructures and Transports n. 206 of 2016, laying down rules for the identification of the authorized subjects to hold the training courses for the rescue in marine waters, inland waters and swimming pools and for the issue of the ratings to the exercise of the activity of assistant bathers; the postponement to 31 December 2017 of the deadline for the issuing of the decree of the Ministry of Infrastructures and Transports in order to prevent the practices of abusive operation of the taxi service and the service of rental with driver; the extension of the application of the discipline concerning the obligations of advertising of the notices for the award of public contracts until the entry into force of the decree of the Minister of Infrastructures and the transports until the entry into force of the decree of the Minister of Infrastructures and the general guidelines in this matter; the extension to 28 February 2017 of the term for the payment of the maximum contribution to the registration of public contracts for the three years 2018 to the possibility to be granted to be granted to be granted to the ten years to be extended to be granted by the ten years 31 to third parties; Article 9 also extends to 31 December 2017 the deadline for the assumption of legally binding obligations for works under the programming of the Development and Cohesion Fund 2007-2013 and finally extends by one year the deadline for the ratification of programme agreements aimed at the relocation of interventions of the extraordinary housing programme for the employees of the State administrations engaged in the fight against organised crime. The Constitutional Affairs Commission, in addition to these measures, has approved new provisions on the granting of authorisations for the operation of scheduled services, on the hire with driver, on the register of carriers and on the extension of the RFI service contract. Article 10 lays down provisions on justice, including the extension of the time limits for structural interventions on the Palace of Justice in Palermo and the administrative procedures for them and the extension until 31 December 2018 of the provision allowing the functions of executive of external criminal execution to be carried out, by way of derogation from the general rules, by officials included in the role of the managers of the penitentiary institution. To these provisions are added the provisions relating to the order of lawyers that provide for the possibility for those who mature the requirements according to the pre-existing legislation in respect of Law No 247 of 2012 to apply for registration in the special register for legal aid in the higher courts within five years and no longer four years from the date of entry into force of the aforementioned Law No 247 of 2012. In addition, the proposal extending the period from four to five years from the date of entry into force of Law No 247 of 2012, under which the examination of qualification for the exercise of the profession of lawyer is carried out, both with regard to written evidence and oral evidence, and with regard to the examination procedures, in accordance with the previous rules. To these dispositions are added the provisions that restore, for the magistrates that on the date of entry into force of the law of conversion of this decree-law exercise the functions at the seat of first assignment or, on the same date, they have assigned the first seat, the period of three years for the transfer to other places or for the assignment to other functions, as established by the pre-existing regime referred to in article 194, first paragraph, of the Royal decree 30 January 1941, n. 12, raised last to four years from the intervention of article 3, paragraph 1, of the decree-law 31 August 2016, n. 168. Finally, a proposal was approved for the offices of judicial offices with high loads of pending disputes. Article 11 lays down provisions on cultural heritage, in particular, the provisions relating to the organizational measures relating to the implementation of the large Pompeii project. Finally, the deadline for issuing the ministerial decree was postponed to April 1, 2017 and the technical rules for the allocation of resources allocated to the symphonic lyrical foundations, for the three-year period 2017-2019, by the 2017 budget law and allocates to the same additional €10 million for 2017. In addition to these provisions, the Committee on Constitutional Affairs approved measures relating to sport, symphonic lyrical foundations and the development of tourist districts. Article 12 contains environmental provisions, including the extension until 31 December 2017 of the period in which the requirements and obligations relating to waste management continue to apply prior to the regulation of the waste traceability control system, the so-called SISTRI, as well as the final term of effectiveness of the contract with the current concessionaire of SISTRI. In addition, a year of application of the 35% renewable-source coverage threshold for total consumption of hot water, heating and cooling in new buildings and existing buildings undergoing major renovations has been envisaged. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs approved, among other things, an important provision on the amendment of the statutes with regard to the pink quotas in the protection consortia. Article 13 contains provisions on economics and finance. In particular, the extension to 31 December 2017 is expected to be extended by 10 per cent of the amounts paid by public administrations to the members of bodies of address, management and control, boards of directors and collegial bodies still denominated and to the holders of assignments of any kind; the extension to 31 December 2017 of the time limit within which the specific coefficients necessary to identify the quantities of fuel subject to excise duty facilitated continue to apply to the combined production of electricity and heat; the extension to 2017 of the automatic adjustment of the passive rents for buildings carried out by the public administrations included in the consolidated income statement, as well as by the independent authorities and CONSOB and used for institutional purposes. It is also expected to postpone the application to 1 July 2017 of the rules providing for the spontaneous payment of local authorities' revenue to the cash flow account of the local authorities by means of the F24 model, i.e. electronic payment instruments (for revenue other than tax, the use of the F24 model is not possible). It also provides for the extension of the entry into force of the rules transposing the MiFID II Directive with regard to the deadline for the exercise of investment advisory activities by entities which, as of 31 December 2007, already lent such activity without holding sums of money or financial instruments of client relevance. Finally, it is expected that some accounting provisions will be applicable to the 2016 financial year, allowing commitments to be made beyond the closing date of the financial year, which is currently expected to take effect from 1 January 2018. In addition to these provisions, several amendments were adopted in the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, including those relating to the extension of the rules on the cultivation, production and trade of wine, the terms of the New Arrangements to Borrow (NAB) loan agreement between Italy and the International Monetary Fund, the granting of State guaranteed loans to the Poverty Reduction and Growth Trust and the participation of Italy in the programmes of the International Monetary Fund by means of a bilateral loan agreement. I would also like to recall the forecast of the extension of the transitional period for the application by financial intermediaries of the previous corporate balance sheet and consolidated balance sheet regime up to the financial statements for the year ending or running at 31 December 2017 and, finally, the provisions for the coordination of the IRES and IRAP rules transposing, from a fiscal point of view, the amendments made to the Civil Code by Legislative Decree No 139 of 18 August 2015 implementing Directive 2013/34/EU on the financial statements, consolidated financial statements and related reports of certain types of companies resident in the Member States of the European Union. I recall for the last, but not for importance, the provisions relating to the earthquake and other emergencies, among which we point out the discipline of the criteria for the allocation by the Government to local authorities of financial spaces, giving priority to the investments of the municipalities hit by the earthquake of 2016; the extension of an additional six months; the suspension of invoices relating to utilities located in the municipalities affected by the earthquake, limited to those damaged persons who declare that the building, the dwelling, the professional studio or the company is unattainable; the extension until 31 December 2017 of the exclusion from the IRPEF tax base of occasional subsidies, the liberal disbursements or the benefits of any kind granted both by the private employers for the benefit of workers resident in the earthquake municipalities, and by the private employers operating in the aforementioned territories in favour of all their workers; the extension to 31 December 2017 of the exemption from the tax of stamp for claims submitted to the public administration by natural or legal persons in the areas affected by the earthquake; the extension to 31 December 2017 of the terms referred to interbank relationships which expire from 24 August or from the 26 October 2016 for the banks listed in the earthquakes in the municipalities. For the same municipalities, the term of suspension of payments of loan instalments, financing of any kind and financial leases for buildings that have been destroyed or become unusable, or real estate or movable assets instrumental in business, commercial, craft, agricultural or professional activities is postponed until 31 December 2017; the allocation of an extraordinary contribution to the Municipality of L'Aquila, for 2017, of the total amount of 12 million euros, as well as of 2 million euros for the other municipalities of the seismic crater. An extraordinary contribution of €32 million is also foreseen for municipalities affected by seismic events since 24 August 2016, the breakdown of which is put back to subsequent measures; the extension to 31 December 2018 of the deadline for the recognition of compensation for extraordinary work performed following the seismic events of May 2012; the extension to 31 December 2017 of the Administrative Technical Unit (UTA), operating at the Department of Civil Protection of the Presidency of the Council of Ministers, in the context of emergencies and waste management in the Campania Region; the extension to 31 December 2017 of the commissioner's management relating to the Galleria Pavoncelli and, finally, the extension to the same date of the term relating to the emergency management of the plant "Stoppani" in the Municipality of Cogoleto, in the province of Genoa. Several other amendments adopted in the 1st Commission address outstanding issues in the various earthquakes that have affected our country over the last few years and, in particular, L'Aquila, Emilia-Romagna and, last but not least, the territories of Central Italy. Ladies and gentlemen, the measure is notoriously complex and full of very serious issues in the country's life as regards both public administrations, citizens and businesses. It is a full-bodied measure for which I must thank the leaders of the 1st Commission in the person of Dr. Alessandro Goracci and his collaborators. I thank the Undersecretaries Pizzetti and De Micheli and the Minister for Relations with Parliament Finocchiaro for the important work done by the Government. I particularly thank the Vice-President of the 1st Commission, Senator Salvatore Torrisi, for the sensitivity he has shown towards me and for the work he has done, which has certainly been complex also for the conditions in which the 1st Commission is located, without its Presidency. I would like to thank all my colleagues in the 1st Commission, and not only, who have helped us to improve the measure. The number of amendments adopted and the conclusion of the examination of the text are, I believe, indicative of the good cooperation that has been done in the Commission. I would also like to thank the President of the Budget Committee and all its members, for the thousand-pronged decree has been carried out in a way that has seen the two Commissions work closely together and with great synergies. The number of amendments tabled and the need to verify their feasibility from the point of view of coverage have led to important and challenging work. I hope I thanked everyone. If I forgot anyone, I apologize. The work we have done, I think, is noteworthy and this House can therefore take note of it. I conclude by saying that some controversial issues within the measure have been discussed: the extension brings with it political content and economic and valuable contributions that are often in conflict and questionable. They are different instances that, on the subject of the extension, find a point of confrontation that must necessarily lead to the identification of mediations. And we have tried to do so taking into account all the issues in the field, and I also believe that the 1st Commission has demonstrated maturity and responsibility in making the decisions that were then taken. [[Applause from the PD Group]] . Congratulations).
ParlaMint-IT_2017-02-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-762.ana.u6	It is good that there are institutional places in which we work with such harmony.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-02-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-762.ana.u7	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, under the name of a thousand-pronged people, we have before us a legislative reproach that disqualifies the institutions of a country where the laws, approved by Parliament, promulgated by the Head of State and published in the Official Journal, never enter into force. It is the "democratic's karma": you are satisfied with appearances and announcements. Citizens think that you have put an end to animal testing, that you have introduced fire guarantees for hotels and kindergartens and modernised public administration. But those laws remain suspended in a paralegal limbo, because a majority of government, which no longer represents itself, moves the end of their application every year. The reasons are obvious: the Government is in chronic delay in drawing up dozens, if not hundreds, of planned implementing decrees, or fails to enforce the deadlines to the Ministries themselves and covers the inability with the referrals, or acts to protect lobby and business committees that in the meantime have moved, or for electoral calculation, because to postpone the entry into force and extend perpetual terms an electoral blackmail on entire categories of citizens, treated as donkeys, to which the Government hangs a stick or a carrot in front of the nose. This of the Government, gentlemen, is anti-political: never take responsibility, bend certainties to conveniences and transform a service to the community into private management of particular interests. And it is a sadly punctual scheme, because every year, in the last Council of Ministers, the Government approves the milleproroghe, which is published in the Official Journal and becomes immediately effective. So a lot of rights and duties is born, which is then difficult to erase. Parliament is therefore forced to convert the decree into law and then puts us with its own, because few resist the temptation to include their own amendment "marchetta." After the puffed up budget law, those who have been disappointed have the opportunity of a consolation prize by sticking this or that favor. Of course, there are exceptions to those few measures that really are necessary and urgent to procrastinate, such as the support for the earthquake territories, but it is sad to see that they are used as fig leaves for a measure that, in its enormousness and substance, is subversive of the institutional order. Yes, gentlemen, it is subversive in substance, because there is no longer legal certainty, it breaks down the custody of the citizen in the law, which becomes volatile. But above all this power is left in the hands of the Government and it is a paradox: the Government intervenes to take back the decrees that a few months earlier had imposed as urgent. What an urgent matter! Fuck you! Fuck you! Or it is given by its majority legislative delegations in white and then it does not even respect the times and deadlines that it has sewn on like a tailoring dress. It is the triumph of the caste in the ivory tower, of the self-referentiality of this policy far from the citizens. That is why the architecture of the State is overturned: Parliament makes the laws, but it is then the Government that decides whether, when and which parts of a rule make it effective, with good peace of the debate and of the votes in the Chamber that have determined it. If then in a parliamentary Republic the Government filters, orients, reverses and disapplys the laws elaborated by Parliament, how can we call it if not subverting the order of the Republic? When the government adopted this umpteenth thousandprorogues, in December, the constitutional referendum was still hot with which twenty million Italians have clearly rejected the masked "government" of the deform Renzi-Boschi-Verdini. That is what they have received from this warning. On the legitimacy of the decree, then, this decree-law is a collage of disparate subjects and competences: public administrations, publishing, council of the order of journalists, work and social policies, education, university and research, Ministry of the Interior, economic development and communication, health, Ministry of Defence, infrastructure and transport, justice, cultural goods and activities, environment, economic and financial matters; and we could go on. Article 77 of the Constitution is therefore violated: the second paragraph allows the decree of the Government only in extraordinary cases. However, such an articulated rule cannot be considered to comply with this criterion: the Constitutional Court's ruling No 220 of 2013. Extraordinary and aberrant, however, is the punctuality with which these extensions are repeated from year to year. And do you think that a measure is necessary and urgent when it postpones the application of standards approved decades ago with referrals of three, four, five years? Remembering to do them every year has become a nuisance. Many of these laws are frozen because of the government's inability to carry out its duties. If we want to see a necessity and urgency, it is to go to the vote and dismiss an inept government and a parliament of nominations that cannot keep their backs straight. Then the principle of rationality of the law is violated: to extend provisions that were to be temporary transform them into permanent laws and distort their meaning; to postpone rules to regime, therefore permanently necessary in our order, it involves sterilization; laws that instead - yes - are necessary and urgent, like the fire regulations in the tourist-hotel structures, frozen for thirteen years. Think of the hotels that have incurred enormous expenses to ensure security or have closed down, while others, who have not fulfilled, continue undeterred. Think of the citizens who, without knowing it, stay in facilities without guarantees for their lives. Burned to death is perhaps one of the most horrible deaths. Think of the fact that this extension is now available even for kindergartens, in a country that has seen children and children die in schools or student homes. Zeppe, patches, reminders made by the Government also lead to a confusing and incomprehensible regulatory framework, in a jungle of referrals, extensions of derogations on delegations. This also becomes an obstacle to entrepreneurial activity, which no longer has certainties. Reopening expired deadlines has a revival effect that violates the tempus regit actum principle, with incalculable consequences on legal and economic relations, and this is to say the least inappropriate in a measure adopted - as the Government says - of urgency. This process allows, indeed encourages inefficiencies and failures of public administrations, who now know that they can settle on continuous referrals, making the efficiency and usability of services to citizens and businesses worse. But these are mainly the failures of the ministerial administrations, and it is the end that the government, instead of apologizing saying: "Sirs, we are wrong, we are unable, it is no longer convenient for us, and therefore we extend, extend and extend, it has the courage instead of making these norms pass as bestowal. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite you to conclude your speech, Senator Endrizzi. ENDRIZZI (M5S). Colleagues, beyond the specific content, in the ridda of articles, paragraphs and amendments of this decree-law, the 5 Star Movement contests its nature and perverse institutionalization as a fixed appointment. We oppose this 'democratic's karma': the system of infinite extension, perpetual urgency, indefinite deadlines, because it compromises the confidence of the citizen in the certainty of the law; it violates the principles of reasonableness and proportionality of the law (Article 3 of the Constitution), the constraints on the decree of urgency (Article 77 of the Constitution) and the prerogatives of Parliament and Government and, that is, the very establishment of the second part of the Constitution. And that is why we ask not to proceed with the examination of the measure for its manifest inconstitutionality. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-02-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-762.ana.u8	On behalf of the Assembly, I greet the teachers and students of the Istituto comprensivo "Paolo Stefanelli" in Rome, who are attending our work. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-02-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-762.ana.u9	He asked Senator De Petris to intervene in order to explain the question referred for a preliminary ruling QP2. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-02-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-762.ana.u10	Madam President, as every year, traditionally, we have to discuss the so-called'multi-prorogation' decree-law today, but the term 'dispute' is a euphemism, because we all know that the government will probably put the question of trust on the approval of this measure. As every year, we are examining a decree-law so-called milleproroghe, a decree at the end of the year, now of thirty-year tradition that is characterized - as always - for an absolutely uneven and heterogeneous content, whose only point of contact with the title, in its various parts, is the fact that it extends rules that were to enter into force - as in some cases - for many years and are repeatedly postponed. And above all they are - in our opinion - an unequivocal sign of an inability on the one hand - and therefore they are a sort of ratification of bankruptcy - to approve the implementing decrees and to implement regulations and, on the other hand, of the Government to assume the responsibility of directly amending the law. In even more serious cases, then, there is a very guilty inertia - which perhaps also conceals a political will - not to proceed with what is due. And the example is in the eyes of all of us, and unfortunately it could have dramatic consequences: let us think of the ever-ending postponement of the entry into force of the rules on fire safety. And I would remind you that one of the last amendments adopted in the Commission last night even concerned the postponement of deadlines in the context of the fire safety of kindergartens. I take these examples to say that we are faced with a different type of extensions that, however, all have in common the general inability of the Ministries, the unwillingness on the part of the various governments to loosen some political nodes, which are thus rippled from one Executive to another, and also a use of the extensions for very clear and obvious political choices. This is, therefore, a heterogeneous series of actions which should be dealt with more appropriately by legislative measures of an ordinary type of modification - in this sense I have spoken of assuming responsibility - of repealing or modulation of the deadline. All the elements I have described here denounce in themselves, without adding anything else, the lack of the requirements of necessity and urgency, not being contemplated, as justification of the use of the decree of urgency, the mere and fruitless course of time for the purposes of the application of rules of law which, on the other hand, impose on the public administration an obligation of fulfillment. Moreover, as I said at the beginning, the re-proposition every year of a decree-law so uneven to extend the terms - always concern the same extensions, repeated consecutively for several years - is the certification not only of the inefficiency of the public administration, but also, more often than not, of the will of the government in office not to apply the rules or to not have access to some extensions, because they do not want to assume some responsibilities. I will give a few examples here quickly and then come back to the general discussion. With regard to the question of the application of the Bolkestein Directive, on the one hand the Government issues a decree extending its application to street trade; on the other hand we are faced with a decision by the Commission, the majority and above all the Democratic Party that further amends the rule, to reaffirm instead the will to apply it. As you can see, the whole affair hides a lack of political clarity or the fact that it does not want to take note that, when certain directives are transposed, we must ensure that they are actually in line with the reality of our country. Then it is simple, as in the case of Bolkestein, to blame the Europe that made that choice, without wanting to recognize that the Government has every opportunity to assume the responsibility to decline it in a different way, as other countries have done. Here, however, we went beyond the same will of the Government and wanted to make a sort of practical and ideological reaffirmation. Another issue concerns the opposite attitude that is taking place: we are zealous, in some cases, in wanting to apply certain rules, but at other times we are not at all, as in the case of the fire directive or the law that we approved in August 2013, which transposed the directive on vivisection, for which instead zeal disappears and from year to year the entry into force of a series of prohibitions moves forward. This shows that there are absolutely opposite attitudes in this decree-law: on the one hand, there is the desire to continue to extend the entry into force of absolutely fundamental rules, such as the fire prevention and safety of schools; on the other hand, there is an attitude which conceals precise economic interests, such as the desire to reaffirm the application of the Bolkestein Directive to the walking trade, which would not deserve it; on the other hand, the rules which this Parliament has voted on and continues to extend the entry into force of the ban on the use of animals in the context of experimentation do not apply. What does all this tell us? The text of the decree-law as approved by the Government presents - in our opinion - elements of clear and repeated unconstitutionality, because there are no prerequisites of necessity and urgency: when one thing has been repeated for years and years, so much so that it is called milleproroghe (like the traditional decree of the end of the year), it is evident that the assumptions of necessity and urgency are lacking.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-02-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-762.ana.u11	Conclude, Senator.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-02-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-762.ana.u12	DE PETRIS (Misto-SI-SEL). The Commission has also increased the decree itself, certainly in some cases even improving it - but this is not now part of the debate - and in others it is getting worse, but certainly always with the same basic vice. So, we can't do it anymore, and I say it. When finally a government of this country will plant it and no longer make a thousand-pronged decree, it will mean that finally the Ministries will have begun to work seriously, to make the decrees, to apply the regulations or to modify the laws that are not good, assuming the responsibility to say that they are not good. From this point of view, the decree-laws presented denounce each time the government's repeated inability to maintain a proper relationship between executive power and legislative power. The unevenness, heterogeneity, the extremely confusing method, the continuous repetition of decree-laws and the total disorganicity of the coacervo of interventions that we denounce every year, lead us to affirm that the decree-law in question is contrary to Article 77 of the Constitution on the decree of urgency and, for this reason, we ask not to proceed to its examination. PRESIDENT. - The debate is He asked Senator Stefani to intervene in order to explain the question referred for a preliminary ruling QP3. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-02-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-762.ana.u13	Madam President, we are once again faced with abuse and the repeated use of the urgent decree. We will never cease to point out, as we do now and as we have done throughout this legislature, the fact that the abuse by the Government of the use of the decree-law becomes a form of failure to respect the true parliamentary structure and the very ability of the Chambers to analyse the measures. We arrive at yet another emptying of the powers that belong to the House and the Senate and a necessary compression of all the time limits, because the times are certainly shorter. Political confrontation, therefore, is further reduced and the amending activity is frustrated. And if a decree-law joins a matter of trust, we come to the point where parliamentary activity is as if it didn't even exist and, therefore, we are here to talk to each other and listen to each other, without all this having the slightest relevance. We are then faced with a measure whose name has almost ironic facets and reminds us of typical sweets: a thousandprorogues; a name that may seem almost imaginative, but that actually makes us find ourselves faced with a virtually annual periodicity, repeated and continuous of a measure that serves only to correct errors, to compensate delays and to try to avoid reaching certain decisions. The extension of the entry into force of a rule, perhaps dating back years and years ago, becomes a way of reducing responsibility in the face of the actual entry into force, that is, when that law will directly produce its effects. To adopt rules and then to apply them with continuous delays, perhaps by entering years of extensions, creates a situation of real deception in front of the citizens. When a law is passed it must be applied immediately. If, on the other hand, the extension is repeated, it means that there is a dysfunction of that system, or because it cannot be put into effect or because it does not want to be put into effect; but this, however, denounces a difficulty and an inconsistency of that same law. We who often talk about the certainty of punishment, gentlemen, must realize that this also requires certainty of the rule. We are faced with a decree-law, the one illustrated by the rapporteur, which seems almost like a telephone directory, in which it is a variety of subjects that almost loses the knowledge of the system as a whole. This is also a distortion of the regulatory process. If you want to make laws, and laws are made here, laws must be enforced. If you do not want to apply them, you do not approve a law. For the umpteenth time, in the question referred for a preliminary ruling, we denounce the fact that, by using a measure of this kind, a variety of completely uneven rules is regulated. We simply want to remind you - as has been done before - almost as if they were the voices of a telephone directory: extension of recruitment in public administration, publishing, work, social policies, education, universities and research, infrastructure and transport, cultural goods, economic development, justice, school building, health, environmental matters, economic and financial matters, emergency interventions. This is how we come to deal with a set of issues that are so uneven, that we do not even have the vision of the objective. In the measure are then inserted some surprising norms, and in this regard we want to denounce the way that we continue to adopt in Italy to make laws and to proceed. The technical and administrative unit set up by the Presidency of the Council of Ministers since 2011 for the definition of debt and creditor situations of an emerging management of the Campania Region has been continuously extended. In Article 9 there is still an extension concerning the cessation of the commissioner's management for the reconstruction of the areas of the municipalities of Basilicata, Campania, Puglia and Calabria following the seismic events of the 1980-81 period. This means that, in this case, we have failed. Then we look at the fire regulations, with an extension which also becomes dangerous and which has been mentioned earlier by my previous colleague. Foreseeing extensions for the deadlines for adapting to fire regulations in schools, ladies and gentlemen, means that we want our children to continue to go to school buildings in a dangerous situation. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group]] We cannot do this at all, because the right to study must be granted in safe conditions. We must not introduce such rules. We have repeatedly raised the question of the heterogeneity of the matter dealt with, in clear contrast to Law No 400 of 1988. It seems, however, almost useless to remember this every time we present a question for a preliminary ruling. In the face of a situation of this kind, we have to point out, in conclusion, what we have always said during this parliamentary term. Firstly, the Government once again uses the instrument of emergency regulation in a totally improper way, removing its legitimate prerogatives from Parliament. This is an uneven measure and is exactly the opposite of what should be a decree-law, which should include urgent interventions and measures on individual subjects and certainly not contain a thousand-pronged measure, which becomes a "millefoglie." In this measure there are also temporary and experimental rules of mere extensions: a real conflict and a contradiction with the requirements of stability, certainty and simplification of legislation. Therefore, for all the reasons I have set out, we ask that you take the liberty of not examining the draft law in question. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-02-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-762.ana.u14	He asked Senator Malan to speak in order to explain a question for a preliminary ruling. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-02-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-762.ana.u15	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, beyond the profiles of your unconstitutionality, which I shall explain in some respects, the measure under consideration has a particular flaw, linked to an extension that is not there. I am referring to the extension concerning the popular banks, that is one of the many measures of the Renzi Government on the banks, of which we see well the overall results. The taxpayer is putting back tens of billions of euros (and not thousands of euros). Inopportune and late measures, which have covered serious risk situations, have become particularly burdensome crises. Just a few days ago the decree-law n. 237 of 2016, with which 20 billion of the taxpayer are destined to face problems of some banks that have been aggravated by the inertia of the Government (I speak of the previous Executive, the one led by Matteo Renzi, which is very similar to the current one), had promised in various circumstances, including the law of stability, to grant an extension to the transformation of the popular banks into joint stock companies. What the Government did not do was done by the Forza Italia Group by submitting amendments in two ways: to grant that extension in the obligations that had been promised by the Government and raise the threshold beyond which the banks are obliged to become joint stock companies, at the level provided for by European regulations. We had already asked for this on the occasion of the examination of the measure on popular banks, we were told no, as we were told no this time and also on the extension that the government had promised. This is truly extraordinary: the government promises one thing and does not do it; we propose it from the opposition and we get votes only from the opposition groups and not from the majority. If from this - we hope not - there will be new damage to the banks, which maybe tomorrow will have to be re-fused again at the expense of the taxpayer, obviously the responsibility will be entirely of the Government. The government's responsibility is already in full on those 20 billions we have just spoken about, but this time we really see that in record time we fail to the word given and the promises made, moreover much argued: it was a just promise, a pity that it was not kept. More generally, the problem of the decree-milleproroghe law is not the provision itself, but it is what is symptom of it. When there are dozens of extensions of public service obligations, which have failed to implement them, it is likely that these extensions should be implemented, but the public administration should have been able to work in good time and effectively. The summit of public administration is the government: it is called executive power for this, not because it has the power to come to Parliament to put trust, but because it should implement the laws, to implement them; instead it does not, either directly or through public administration, with the consequence that we must then extend the rules. There are other appropriate extensions because they delay the entry into force of wrong laws that have been passed, as they say, to give a signal, in other words to throw smoke in the eyes of Italian citizens. Instead of approving the measure that is needed, a signal is given: it is not for anything, but in this way it is shown that something is done. Fortunately there is a moment of resistance, you understand that the law is wrong and then you stick the extension to make sure that the law remains, but at least you will have to implement it only later and in the meantime you will correct or repeal the norm. In this case too, the problem is not that a question is resolved in this way somewhat hypocritical and obscure; the problem lies upstream, that is, in the adoption of an unreal and intentional law, but it gives a signal; in other words, it explicitly wants to make fun of the citizens. There is, however, an observation to be made from the point of view of the strict constitutionality of the measure. While it is true that some of these emergencies are real, at least the political emergencies for which the Government considers it appropriate to implement these extensions of the terms, it is also true that, when these extensions are planned in advance (i.e. from the beginning, at least from February or March of the previous year, that some norms will have to be extended), when the urgency is premeditated, then there is no more urgency: it is like repenting before doing something; as Dante teaches, there is a logic that does not allow it. When urgency has been foreseen since ten months before, then it is ten months before it should be remedied, when it is not yet an emergency by changing the rules or implementing them, or, at that point, by approving an ordinary bill to extend the deadlines. It is possible for an extraordinary need and urgency to occur every year as a whole, but if this happens frequently for the same rules, one after the other, this clearly calls into question the pre-conditions of urgency, even when the urgency is present. It is clear that, if we know from February that a rule is not good or needs to be extended and expects December to do so, it is really urgent in December. So you have to think about it first. I also welcome the presence in the House of more than one Minister and in particular the Minister for relations with Parliament, who, unlike the one who preceded her, comes here not only to put trust but also to listen to the Senate discussions and the arguments put forward by the senators. This certainly deserves our appreciation. Another point that I would like to stress concerns extraordinarily old rules, such as the 2002 rule already mentioned, which is further extended by this decree. If one goes to read this rule, in the context of so many obscure references and quotations from other laws, it is discovered that it is a norm concerning interventions to follow the earthquake of 1980-1981. Here we have an "archaeological" urgency that is really, this yes, extraordinary, but not extraordinarily necessary and urgent. For these reasons, we consider that we are voting in favour of the question referred for a preliminary ruling, although we understand that there are necessary measures in the measure. I would like to stress, however, that an important measure is missing: the one on popular banks, promised and over-promised, but that there is not. It could be included in the decree-law on banks, but it was not included. We told ourselves that he was coming into the thousand-pronged decree-law, and instead he's not even here. It is the decree-law of the missed extensions, this, and this further weakens the installation of the entire provision [[Applause from Senator Bernini.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-02-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-762.ana.u16	As no one intends to speak in the debate, I put to the vote the question referred to you for a number of reasons by Senator Crimi and other Senators (QP1), Senator De Petris and other Senators (QP2), Senator Calderoli and other Senators (QP3) and Senator Malan. It's not approved. I'll take the rehearsal. I order the doors closed. We proceed to counter-test by electronic procedure. It's not approved. Senator Gasparri is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-02-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-762.ana.u17	Madam President, I only want to point the index at two issues: the first concerns the non-extendance of the transformation into public limited companies of the popular banks, and therefore the banking world. This is all about a galaxy in the banking system. We have not quite understood why, in the face of the dispute that the Council of State has also done with respect to the popular banks, sending rules and regulations to the Constitutional Court, and having blocked the procedures for the slope of the recourse to the Constitutional Court, it has not been decided to include in the decree-law an extension, as we had proposed. We are told that there has been a veto by the former Minister and current Undersecretary of Boschi. If that were the case, it would be very serious, because a government representative already mentioned for banking events - we all remember the story of the Etruria People's Bank - should not create interference. We do not have proof of this guilt, but there certainly was no such extension. Some members of the government said that everything was suspended until the Constitutional Court was delivered, but I think it was a serious mistake. Having said that, I would like to speak on a point which was the subject of a broad debate yesterday and also of a democratic mobilization around the Senate: the question of the Bolkestein directive and of the walking trade. Yesterday I also intervened personally to prevent an unacceptable roadblock from continuing and to give due heed to the request for a hearing of citizens working in the field of trade, which we did with the President acting as the 1st Torrisi Commission and other colleagues. [[Brusio]] Madam President, at this point "recreation" is over: I would ask you to call my colleagues back. We know that these interventions are useless, but we must consider that yesterday the Senate was "surrounded"... PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Colleagues, although I understand the very 'on-the-spot' moment, I would ask you to conduct your conversations outside the House. Yesterday, wisely, the Commission listened to the streetwalkers, after they stopped making a roadblock because they cannot block the roads and ask to be heard: if they are heard they do not block the roads, even if they can protest. There has been a pastrocchio and I am making this speech to future memory, for what will happen in Parliament and in the country. The Bolkestein Directive must be passed for bathing and walking. I say this because it was issued years ago (at the fault of all, even of the center-right governments that underestimated its impact), also because it was known that it would come into force ten years later. Now, only in Italy and in another country, in 27 countries of the European Union, are there competitions for the street trade. Some organisations, which claim to be representative (but many others dispute this), have reached an agreement in the State-Regions Conference to circumvent the Bolkestein Directive. According to this agreement you can make the races, so whoever already works in the sector will have a guaranteed score (and then if he is enrolled in the Chamber of Commerce will have an additional score): so the race wins who already works and therefore is a fake race. Attention: those who have entered into this agreement stab the street trade behind them, because the agreement itself will be easily indisputable, since it circumvents the Bolkestein directive and is therefore precarious. Be wary, traders, of these agreements, because they will be infirm. The Italian Antitrust has already issued a note that criticizes this situation, so the State-Regions Conference has written an agreement on sand. The calls for proposals are precarious and, in fact, yesterday, the Commission wisely decided to delete from the amendment tabled by Senators Colucci and Mirabelli the part that said: "without prejudice to the tendering procedures already started". So, I want you to stick to the documents we discussed and voted that the tender procedures are null and void. Let the mayors know that if they don't get stuck, they face a very expensive dispute. Madam President, I see that my time is running out. I would ask you to give me two more minutes, since I have taken on the task of speaking first and breaking the ice. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Please, Senator Gasparri. Gasparri (FI-PdL XVII). Thank you, Madam President. The mayors, then, don't race. I know that you will put your trust in the measure and not allow the original text to be defended. The paradox is that yesterday the opposition wanted to maintain the text of the Government, which provided for a dry extension until the end of 2018. The Government did not defend its text, the majority changed it and thus emerged a rule that grants the extension, cancels the acts made, and allows the mayors to make calls for tenders with the rules in force. But what are the current rules? The agreement between State and Regions that the Antitrust Authority disputes? The Bolkestein directive, which needs to be overcome? We therefore call on the mayors to respect yesterday's debate in the Commission and not to race, so as not to be contentious. If trust is placed we will not be able to submit agendas, but the Rules of Procedure are different to the House of Deputies. I therefore call on my fellow Members from the other branch of Parliament to present an agenda during the debate they will be holding. Madam President, I shall conclude. I hope that the ANCI (with its President Decaro, belonging to the Democratic Party and opposed to these races) and the President of the Democratic Party Orfini (who issued a statement against the indictment of these races) will join the action that, not only as an exponent of Forza Italia but in many (I think of Senator De Petris and Senators Calderoli and Quagliariello), we held yesterday in the Commission and that we will have a table. President Lanzillotta, you follow the competition issues a lot, and you know that we are in a Europe where you claim to compete to authorize the sale of shoes to the Velletri market, while Amazon, through electronic commerce, sells everything in the homes of anyone, without paying taxes. The rules of competition apply to the poor and not to the rich. In addition, the Bolkestein directive is applied in two out of twenty-seven countries, which is not fair, and that makes our government's zeal unacceptable. In conclusion, we ask that ANCI, Regions, Government and, if possible, Parliament discuss that this directive be revised and that in the meantime we start charging taxes to Google, Amazon and to all those who, on the network, make tax-free trade. I read that Google has accepted a fiscal arrangement of 280 million euros; if you agree to pay this amount, think of how many millions you have not paid. Our fight is to ensure that the market is transparent and that it reflects on these aspects, since the rule contained in this measure is very confusing. We will work in Parliament and in the country - I also hope with the Government and the ANCI - to ensure the work of those who, on the road, only demand respect for their activities. [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-02-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-762.ana.u18	I would ask colleagues to lower their voices, because it is really difficult to speak and listen. I would also ask you to dissolve the sheds in the hemicycle. She's enlisted to speak Senator Pezzopane. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-02-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-762.ana.u19	Madam President, we are about to convert a particularly important instrument into law, namely the decree-law called in a thousand-pronged jargon, which contains an important work of verification with a wide range of deadlines of terms present in various laws (objectives, these, certainly not achieved, or attainable by the present rules). There is no doubt that in several speeches, and also in that of the rapporteur himself, whom I thank, structural difficulties have been identified. However, in the light of my experience, I would like to say that sometimes reckless and unrealistic constraints or predictions sometimes force the legislator to account for it at some point. The proposals approved by the Commission are numerous and I believe that a good job has been done, given the difficulties of the budgets and also the fact that, in some circumstances, many of the amendments proposed by the political forces went in the opposite direction. I think it was important to extend the rankings of public competitions so that local authorities could draw on them. Already the text of the decree-law approved by the Government made important choices. I am thinking, in fact, of the 40,000 contracts for the precarious of the public administration and the confirmation, already in the decree-law, of the validity of numerous rankings. Since I constantly listen to local authorities, I consider this choice a real breath of oxygen for public administrations, but also for those people in the flesh who live behind the unpleasant words: "precari", "suitable" and "winners waiting". We are responding precisely to those people and, of course, we are achieving better efficiency in public administration. I think it is important - and I thank those who have worked hard on it - for the intervention of ISTAT and the Higher Institute of Health. Both are a sign of a great deal of attention to these structures and to those workers. Moreover, with this decree and with the amendments made, more time is given to competitions of the managers of the Revenue Agencies and the extension of the so-called meter is obtained. Particularly important is the adoption of an amendment tabled by Senator Parente and myself, which intervenes with over 19 million euros to cover the Dis-Coll until 30 June. This is an important intervention aimed at groups in great difficulty. Very often, the objectives we set ourselves, especially in emergency situations, are not achieved. Often this happens because they are not attainable in the times that the legislator gives himself. They are sometimes "jacobin" times and determined by impossible predictions. We realized this and in my daily experience I realized that, in particular, the processes of emergency management and reconstruction are very long and complex and need constant resources and simplified regulations. Let me give an example: in the decree-law on the earthquake, approved a few weeks ago by the Government and which will soon arrive in the Chambers, some norms have already been modified inserted just a month ago. Fortunately, the Government and the legislator immediately realized that some rules had to be simplified; this did not happen in my experience as an earthquake administrator in 2009, when rules were adopted that we were able to change only in this legislature, many years later. That is why we need extensions, which are a sign of realism rather than inefficiency. There are a number of them, thanking the rapporteur, Stefano Collina, and the representatives of the Government who have helped in this process of realism. I am thinking, first of all, of the sums intended to save the budgets of the Crater Municipalities 2009. There are fewer revenue due to the failure to complete the reconstruction procedure. twelve million euros for the Municipality of L'Aquila and two million euros for the other municipalities are the compensatory resources for the lower revenues and the greater expenses resulting from a complicated process of reconstruction. Thousands of buildings are still uninhabited and not accessible. All this brings the municipalities to their knees and emptys the coffers of the same. There has been a significant décalage in recent years, but there is still need and realism requires us to intervene. The second important instrument was the extension of contracts for fixed-term employees recruited with public selection, (more than one hundred) located in the Crater Municipalities 2009 and entrusted with very important tasks. A lack of extension would mean the closure of the offices. In fact, these people (more than one hundred) are entrusted with the management of administrative practices, but even and also the management of some basic social services such as, for example, kindergartens: tools not only educational for children, but also an opportunity for families to see satisfied with the important needs for their children in an emergency situation. In this way, with the extension of the hundred precarious until 2018, they can better organize the competent offices to deal with emergency practices and reconstruction. The third very important element is the adoption of the first-signed amendment by my colleague, Mr Broglia, which also contains an amendment of mine, which clears the solidarity fund in the earthquake-stricken areas of Abruzzo, Emilia and Central Italy, because the paradox of a request to municipalities in emergency to return sums to the State is to be overcome: a sort of incomprehensible short-circuit. This amendment also solves this problem and is an important and very useful response to those municipalities. Equally significant and linked to this reflection is the amendment, first signed by Puglisi, which I have signed with many other colleagues, which allocates a share of the resources of the fund for the spectacle in favor of cultural activities in the territories of the four Regions affected by the last seismic event. In fact, it would be illusory to think that it is enough to rebuild houses to rebuild a community. Instead, the effort to provide these people and these lands in emergency not only social services, but also cultural opportunities to rebuild relationships and to maintain a high level of cultural and emancipation that in those devastated areas, and often also affected by collective psychosis of fear and torment, are particularly important. It will be a special decree to determine how these resources are to be used and I hope that it will be issued immediately, because we must immediately give these answers so well understood and so well defined in this instrument. Also important is the extension of the rankings of the Ripam competition that concerns a competition for experienced technicians of emergency and reconstruction: people selected with a very busy and high quality procedure that, still for 2017, can be used. Also for the areas affected by the earthquake there are also other very important instruments: for example, the discipline of the criteria for the allocation by the Government to local authorities of financial spaces, giving priority to investments in municipalities hit by the earthquake of 2016; there is an extension of another six months for the suspension of invoices related to utilities located in municipalities affected by the earthquake. Think about it: pay for utilities in a house where no one lives or in houses where one has to live for a short time. There is the extension until 31 December 2017 of the exclusion from the IRPEF tax base of occasional subsidies, liberal payments and benefits of any kind. There is the extension to 31 December 2017 of the exemption from the payment of the stamp tax for requests submitted to the public administration by natural or legal persons in the areas affected by the earthquake, as well as the extension to 31 December 2017 of the deadlines related to poor interbank relationships from 24 August or 26 October 2016 for banks located in municipalities affected by seismic events. For those same municipalities, moreover, the term of suspension of the payments of the installments of the loans, of the financing of any kind and of the rents of financial with regard to buildings destroyed or become inaccessible or real estate or capital goods to entrepreneurial, commercial, craft and other activities is postponed to 31 December 2017. It is also important to allocate an extraordinary contribution of EUR 32 million to municipalities affected by seismic events since 24 August 2016. Not least, other instruments are foreseen, such as the extension to 31 December 2018 of the deadline for the recognition of compensation for extraordinary work performances made following seismic events of May 2012. In short, in this measure, in which many problems are dealt with and dealt with, one has a special and particular eye for those areas of our national territory affected, unfortunately, in recent years by major disasters. We do not enter into the substance of the measures, for which, of course, we will have to deal in a more complex and complex way with specific amending proposals when the decree on the earthquake arrives in the Chambers. But, at least on this occasion, while remaining in the restricted areas of the extensions of existing regulations, a significant contribution is made. I would therefore like once again to thank the rapporteur, the Presidents of the Commissions and the representatives of the Government for listening to the voice of those Members - including myself - who, from those lands, constantly listening to local authorities and citizens, report to this House and to the right and important Commissions, which on this occasion were, in a very balanced way, paid. [[Applause from the PD Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-02-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-762.ana.u20	Senator Arrigoni is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-02-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-762.ana.u21	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, representatives of the Government, the measure confirms the way in which Italian legislation is legislated, a bit superficial: continuous provisional provisions which are then extended over time with continuous legislative interventions, without any kind of rational planning. As we have already pointed out in the preliminary question that we have presented, the text contains disparate and uneven extensions covering the various sectors: public administration, work, social policies, education, universities and research, competences of the Ministries of the Interior, Defence, Justice, Economic Development, Economy and Finance; and then, again, communication and publishing, health, infrastructure and transport, culture and cultural heritage, environment, up to the extension of the deadlines for emergency interventions, such as those on the earthquake. We can say that such a measure is a sort of legislative panacea that is often used to repair errors, distortions, underestimations or even negligence of the legislator or the executive body, as well as to heal inefficiencies of politicians, administrators or managers and officials of public administrations who have failed to comply with the rules and who are not recalled and sanctioned for this reason. There are extensions that are the emblem of a messy, inefficient, light-years away from the adverse everyday life that our citizens and our businesses have to face. For example, the extension of fixed-term and project contracts for the Provinces is further confirmation of the failure of the Delrio law, which has since 2014 emptied these bodies of personnel and above all of resources, but not of fundamental functions, such as spatial planning, roads, school building, public and private transport. The final result is that chaos and uncertainty over the quality and quantity of services, which in many cases have become third-world, have been reigning for a long time, putting at risk the safety of schools and mobility, as the snow emergency of Central Italy in January has shown. On the cultural bonus, it is possible to extend from 31 January to 30 June of this year the deadline by which 18-year-olds must register to the IT platform "18app" in order to benefit from the yet another Renzian bonus, the 500 euro one for culture. The reason for the extension is soon said: of the over 570,000 potentially beneficiary children, only 230,000 (40 percent) have joined the initiative and this - let's say - is another flop of the Renzi government. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group.]] A bankruptcy measure for young people, who would have preferred a maneuver that would guarantee them social equity. Renzi's primary objective was to ingratiate the young people, especially in view of the constitutional referendum, but these on that occasion, heard mocked, they sonorously rejected it. Here it is not only the grim portal, but also the fact that the kids have not found theaters, museums, shops and bookstores that have joined the initiative, totally non-existent exercises in some parts of the country. Who didn't buy books doesn't buy them, who didn't go to the movies and the theater still doesn't go and you know what the absurd is? That the difficulty in spending government money has sharpened the ingenuity of many guys, who have fueled a black coupon market especially on social networks, to sell to have in exchange for money. And then among the extensions could not miss that, umpteenth, of the Sistri, today needed from the mysterious and little transparent - I emphasize - to take in the management of the service from the new concessionaire in order to make operational the system of control of the traceability of the waste for the operators of the field of the transport of hazardous waste. If we consider it inappropriate to continue forcing companies to pay their registration fees, even if they are reduced by 50%, to a system that is obsolete and never functioning, of which there is absolutely no clear development, we had tabled an amendment to this effect, which was obviously rejected. In the meantime, however, we stress that the contract will continue with Selex, the supplier of the original system not working with the payment of the 10 million euros of compensation. Then there are extensions that make the skin cling and worry, Senator Stefani said earlier during the illustration of the question and I repeat that, like that of the deadline for adapting schools to the fire regulations. I recall, ladies and gentlemen, the duties of the State, which should ensure universal and compulsory education, of course in safe conditions for pupils, students, teachers and school workers. The explanatory report, for this provision, does not refer to the conditions of necessity which would justify the provision of referral, but it is clear to all that the extension is necessary for the cutting of resources to municipalities and provinces by the last appointed Executives, starting with the Monti one. And then there are the scandal rules. Also this year there are extensions that represent the emblem of inefficiency, but fortunately it is not just the whole country, but that abroad helps to confirm and feed the stereotype of a messy and inefficient Italy. I am talking, for example, about the 2006 Turin Olympic Games, for which there is yet another extension to 31 December of this year of the Agency's remaining activities for the performance of the 20th Winter Olympic Games in Turin 2006 - I repeat: Torino 2006 - with extensions started since 2008 by the liquidation commissioner. It is serious to allow more time without knowing the framework of the resources currently being managed by the same Commissioner, with the commitments still to be addressed for the closure of the liquidation, in order to understand a budget and the possible need for additional public resources in order to finally reach the end of the liquidation. Again, there is the earthquake of Irpinia: another extension, which bitters and is truly inconceivable. The Commissioner for the reconstruction of this 1980 earthquake has been suspended for another year. All this happens, dear colleagues and dear citizens, thirty-seven years after the seismic event and again, for this year, an additional EUR 100,000 will be spent on the operation of the structure in support of the Commissioner. We need to move on to ordinary management, ladies and gentlemen, or to change the Commissioner for blatant inefficiency, as the League has requested, with amendments that have been rejected. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group and Senator Fucksia.]] I really hope that this precedent and this decision will not lead to discouragement to the communities affected by the earthquake of the Eagle of 2009, which do not yet see a future, to those of Emilia-Romagna affected in 2012 and especially those of Central Italy, hit by the serious earthquakes of August and October 2016. With regard to streetwalkers, as regards the extension of the concessions for the exercise of trade in public area, we denounce the behaviour of the majority, who wanted to change the forecast of the simple extension of the term of the concessions in existence at the end of 2018, aimed at the alignment of the expiration of the concessions. Once and for all that the government had done something good, you intervened with a tight leg with an amendment approved yesterday in the Commission, which risks triggering a dangerous social clash with a category that includes almost 200,000 VAT matches and a sector that, between owners and employees, feeds almost half a million people! The amendment, messed up, first, introduces uncertainty in the future of these operators; secondly, it irresistibly opens the door to the Bolkestein directive to this sector; thirdly, it throws the municipalities into chaos as to how they should behave with the notices; fourthly, it will certainly open the door to an avalanche of disputes, also in the light of the recent opinion of the Competition and Market Authority, which calls into question the unified understanding of the State-Regions of 2012. On the earthquake emergency, extended provisions have been inserted regarding the earthquakes of the Eagle of 2009 and Emilia-Romagna of 2012, while the rules that provided for extensions for this earthquake have been removed - with the assumption to include them in the third earthquake decree of Central Italy -. Well, we, as the North League, will insist that the provisions that have been removed are not limited to the municipalities of the craters of the earthquake of 2016, defined by Decree-Law No. 189 of 2016. We cannot overlook the drama suffered by the municipal administrations, by the populations and by the enterprises, especially those of the farmers and farmers, who have suffered very heavy damage due to the bad weather emergency of the second decade of January. The League had tabled amendments to the milleproroghe for the House and will resume them to the third earthquake decree, especially in favour of the resident farmers and the farms and zootechnics affected by the exceptional weather phenomena that in the second decade of January fell on the four Regions Abruzzo, Lazio, Marche and Umbria. We are talking about snow-buried stables and 3,000 farms, many of which have suffered damage to their structures, which have even collapsed, which, together with the defueling of the electricity utilities prolonged for days and the imperishability of the roads, has caused enormous difficulties to reach the cattle to feed it, milk it and water it. The damage count is dramatic: we are talking about 10,000 dead animals and estimated damage, for this sector, of 52 million. There are also several municipalities, especially in Abruzzo and Marche, which are not included in the seismic crater of August and October, which have been heavily affected by the weather events of January and which have been ignored - I say this now - by the third decree-law of the Government. I say, but are we realizing this? Government and majority cannot neglect these communities. Only in the province of Teramo, the most affected, the estimated damage speaks of almost half a billion euros; then there are many municipalities of the Province of Pescara and others of the Province of Chieti. It is mounting indignation among the citizens and above all among the first citizens, the mayors, to whom you must answer absolutely. The League will give voice to their sacred protests and the demands of these communities. I hope that these communities, these mayors, these peoples and these enterprises will not be abandoned by the Government and the majority during the conversion of the third decree-law on the earthquake. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-02-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-762.ana.u22	We greet the teachers and students of the Istituto Massimiliano Massimo in Rome, who are today visiting the Senate. Welcome to follow our work. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-02-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-762.ana.u23	He's enlisted to speak Senator Piccoli. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-02-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-762.ana.u24	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, representative of the Government, I would like to address briefly the issue of fire safety for hotel accommodation, which is a very important issue for the qualification of our country's tourist offer. The Commission approved the extension to 31 December 2017 for its compliance. I have been a signatory to an amendment to this effect and I welcome the granting of this further extension, if only for the liability profiles of the manager. With the adoption of the amendment, it is obvious that the basic text of the Decree-Law is seriously forgotten. In fact, many hotel companies, due to the continuing economic crisis and the consequent credit crunch, could not complete the adaptation to the fire regulations by the deadline of 31 December 2016, deadline set by Decree-Law No 210 of 30 December 2015, converted by Law No 21 of 25 February 2016. Despite the simplifications obtained in the past, the technical fire regulation remains difficult, in some cases impossible to implement in existing structures. In fact, complex structural interventions are required, to be carried out on activities in operation; even for the structures basically in order, the simple finding of documents necessary to formally certify compliance with the current legislation is difficult. Finally, the Central Scientific Committee on Fire Prevention, when examining and approving the new technical regulation, had noted the difficulties of adaptation for existing activities and had agreed to the opening of a technical comparison with a view to making any changes to the existing rules. However, this comparison has not yet been activated. Now, Mr Undersecretary, after it is estimated that there are still more than 60% today, with tens of thousands of hotel facilities not suitable for fire prevention, it is necessary to structure a concrete and progressive path, which exceeds the logic of the emergency so far followed. On the one hand, it is necessary to provide (as only in part is being done where the State provides tax support and the Regions provide grants) further support for investment in the field of prevention, at a time when access to credit is rather complex, if not impossible. On the other hand (and this is the point I would like to highlight in particular, Mr Undersecretary) it is necessary to provide the operators of the sector with a perspective of fire-fighting adaptation that is progressive and multi-annual, according to a logic already followed in other cases, for example for health facilities. This procedure requires subsequent action, to be carried out following a specific plan that the operator will have to implement progressively, obtaining total adjustment over a few years. In this sense I have requested the Government's commitment to the agenda G6101, which at this point (if, as it seems, the question of trust will be raised) will not be dealt with, which I have presented for debate in the Chamber and which I hope will be approved or on which I hope there will be, in some way, a corresponding concrete commitment by the Government to accompany the indispensable modernization of accommodation structures in the sign of security and modernity, adopting certain precise lines of intervention. I have pointed out my agenda so that the indications contained in it remain in the documents, in future memory. It requires the Government to undertake to start a normative path that allows the owners of the hotel structures to proceed to the adaptation on the basis of the progressiveness of the fulfillments, to reach the objective of the prevention of fires through successive increases of safety and, finally, to keep in mind, in fixing the temporal expiration of the individual fulfillments and interventions, the effective possibility of the realization of the same ones, in the economic framework that our Country is living. [[Applause from Senators Amidei and Fucksia]] . Congratulations). PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. She's registered to speak Senator Parente. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-02-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-762.ana.u25	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, we believe that the extension of time limits is important. With this measure, in fact, we often have the fate of people, families and businesses in our hands and our goal is to improve them, starting from the rules contained in the measure in favour of the earthquake victims, mentioned a moment ago by Senator Pezzopane. My speech will focus mainly on provisions for young people. Firstly, we have extended the time limits and found resources for unemployment benefit for workers and workers with a coordinated and continuous cooperation relationship, the so-called Dis-Coll. I remember that in the jobs act we introduced, for the first time in history, a social shock absorber for workers and workers, especially girls and boys, with a coordinated and continuous collaboration contract enrolled in the separate management. Article 15 of Legislative Decree No. 22 of 2015, implementing the jobs act, established the unemployment cover for these workers, experimentally, for 2015. With last year's Stability Act, we have extended the terms of this experimental measure. As Mrs Pezzopane said, this year, thanks to the commitment of my party and the Government, we will extend the deadlines for 2017 until June. As you know, the parliamentary process was not easy, but we did. An amendment was accepted at my first signature, the result of the commitment and work of the Group, the Labour, Social Security and other colleagues, starting with the leader in the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, Doris Lo Moro. We have done it and this will improve the condition of 300,000 workers and workers in our country, thanks to the commitment of the Government and the Undersecretary Pizzetti, who is present here in the Chamber. It wasn't easy, but we did, so we didn't let any girl and no guy in the presence of involuntary job loss events. But we do not stop here: the unemployment benefit for employees must be made a stable and no longer experimental measure. In order to make it stable, we need to intervene on contributory coverage, by adjusting the welfare rates of separate management. In the Senate, in the discussion of the measure on self-employment, we approved an agenda that commits the Government to intervene on the separate management. The House of Deputies, thanks also to the commitment of young colleagues on this issue, in the debate on the measure on self-employment, will have a delegation to intervene on this issue, in order to make the measure stable to cover coordinated and continuous workers. Another measure in favour of young people concerns the so-called ISTAT precarious. I do not like to use the term "precari" because they are 350 young qualified researchers, who participated in the 2011 census of ISTAT and who, thanks to this measure, are going to participate in the census of 2018. Again, although it has not been easy, we have given a dutyful response to the long days of tensions and protests that have involved the workers of the institute and, thanks to our amendment and the commitment of the rapporteur Collina (as he recalled in his report), the 350 workers, especially young people, will be able to participate in the internal competition of the ISTAT for recruitment. This has been a long-awaited achievement, which shows that good policy can also respond to the needs of our young people. In the world of work, with the increase of the retirement age, awaiting the implementing decrees on EPAs and social EPAs that will allow the exit from work, we must absolutely reward young people, young researchers, qualified young people who to work in ISTAT have passed difficult and very qualifying tests. To facilitate the work of young people we need to strengthen the network of employment services and the measure we are about to approve will allow the Provinces and Metropolitan Cities, in the more than implementation of the process of reordering the functions related to active labour policies and in order only to ensure the continuity of the services provided by the employment centres, to conclude fixed-term employment contracts with a maturity not later than 31 December 2017, even in case of non-compliance with the public finance objectives for the year 2016, provided that the current balance is ensured during the period covered by the contracts. This is in order to strengthen the network of employment services and intercept the sense of loneliness that many young people find in job search. Again, our commitment does not end here. Now we have the National Agency for Active Labour Policies (ANPAL), which was made operational in January of this year, and Italia Lavoro SpA which has become ANPAL Servizi and also there are 700 people, especially young people, who do not have a stable employment contract and who are a valuable resource to strengthen employment services and active policies. Strengthening the network of employment services, both quantitatively and qualitatively, with the qualified contribution of people working there, introducing essential levels of services to ensure services for all the unemployed is the sense of the greater reform of the Renzi Government and the commitment of the Silveri Gentiloni Government. Now ensuring services for all unemployed people from North to South is the priority objective, in order to strengthen the skills of workers and workers and thus create real places of supply and demand for jobs and facilitate the dialogue between development and employment. In the course of today's debate, particularly in the case of the opposition, it has been said that the thousand-pronged decree-law contains uneven elements, but fundamental rules can be found there. We had a paradoxical discussion just now, when examining the questions referred for a preliminary ruling: let's tell the 300,000 precarious young people that this rule was not necessary; let's tell the 350 boys and girls of ISTAT that these norms were not necessary or were not urgent! Were these measures not urgent? The commitment of my Group, the Democratic Party and the Government goes in this direction, because we are going to adopt measures that go in the direction of improving the condition of young people and strengthening active labour policies. That is our commitment, we have put it into this measure and we will continue to do so. All those who are in these conditions and also our country will judge by this what is the goodness of the provision. [[Applause from the PD Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-02-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-762.ana.u26	He's enlisted to speak Senator Floris. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-02-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-762.ana.u27	Madam President, representatives of the Government, ladies and gentlemen, the decree-law under consideration, which contains the correction of a series of provisions adopted by the Renzi Government, modifying its terms or its operation, appears, in reality, to be the finding of their ineffectiveness, considering that, as the name of the measure states, it intervenes in a thousand absolutely different contexts. A thousand extensions, or a little less than a thousand, considering that the decree, born already robust in the Council of Ministers of the Gentiloni Government Silveri of December 30, has been enriched with additional rules during the Senate process, especially at the initiative of the Executive itself. And it has become a coacervo of provisions, not only of extension, which go to amend or supplement laws that have proved to be largely ineffective. I shall confine myself to highlighting just a few of these rules for the profiles of my competence or interest. Paragraph 10 of Article 1 differs at the end of the current year the terms for recruitment in the health sector. In particular, as regards the recruitment of doctors, nurses and professional technical staff in the bodies of the National Health Service, it is expected that for the whole of 2017 the competition procedures, which may be completed in the following year. The extension is considered indispensable since not all autonomous regions or provinces have introduced the programming of the hospital network to the ministerial technical tables. Therefore, during all this year flexible work contracts may still be concluded to cover the needs of health structures, instead of finally having permanent contracts The terms concerning the management autonomy of the territorial authorities provided for in paragraph 10 of Article 5, which regulates the erial transfers for the Provinces of Sardinia and Sicily, are also extended. The text proposes the date of 31 March 2017 for the approval of municipal forecast budgets and all 2017 for the repartition of the Experimental Fund for provincial rebalancing. This means that one is still far from achieving that autonomy of entry of the Regions and Provinces, provided for by the decree implementing the delegation on federalism, but also far from a definitive determination of costs and standard needs, especially in the health sector. In short, the legal uncertainty that is brought behind the constitutional reform rejected by the Italians, which absolved the Provinces and reduced the legislative competences of the Regions, the failure of the Delrio law that has transformed the Provinces into entities of wide area, while they continue to exist according to our Constitution, as well as the failure of the so-called Madia reform, reverberate on the decree-law under consideration, through a whole series of extensions that also concern the Regions, the Provinces and the local authorities. In this way, the Provinces will at least be able to approve their budgets for the current year, even if the legal uncertainty highlighted is present. Moreover, the extension also concerns the Provinces of the Regions of Sardinia and Sicily, which, as we know, enjoy a state autonomy. Autonomy provided for by the respective Statutes but which, in fact, has remained for these Provinces the erial transfers by the Ministry of the Interior and not the resources provided for by the Experimental Rebalancing Fund. For them, in fact, the so-called provincial federalism has not been applied. Regarding the resources allocated for infrastructure on the territory, I certainly welcome the approval of an additional paragraph, on 9-a, to Article 9, which provides for the adaptation of the Sassari-Olbia route. However, I must point out that our institutional system and the organisation of the levels of government of the territory contain certainly inadequate mechanisms. To set up a very important road, connecting two cities in the north of Sardinia, two strategic ports such as Olbia and Porto Torres and two airports fundamental for the tourist flow on an island, such as those of Olbia and Alghero, it was necessary to resort to a special accounting. The question arises as to whether this country really is so badly reduced that it has to resort to extraordinary measures and by way of derogation to create a vital infrastructure, not only for the island of Sardinia, but for the entire economy of the country where tourism represents a fundamental part of the gross domestic product. Then there are some issues, highlighted also by the opinion of the Senate Health Commission to the Commission which assessed the text of the Decree-Law on the substance. The delay of one year for a particularly important aspect for research such as animal testing is a deadline that should be extended to at least five years, in order to give research itself the opportunity to implement its own programmes and not to lose the contribution of the trials still in progress. In conclusion, the decree-law, which also intervenes on every subject of the human scibile, fails to address several issues and to write some provisions that, on the contrary, are required by the different categories. In short, we are voting for a real buzz of extensions that shows both the ineffectiveness of the reforms carried out so far, and the tentacles of an increasingly intrusive and asphyxiating bureaucracy. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator Uras is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-02-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-762.ana.u28	Madam President, I wish to speak on a few of the issues which have been the subject of this measure, on which the request for confidence is announced. In particular, I intend to intervene on the lot of special accounts and their reduction in accordance with the rules in force, which have risked - and we are pleased that this risk has been overcome - to complicate the conclusion of the works of one of the main arteries of Sardinia, Sassari-Olbia, which is a road known to the most, unfortunately, for tragic reasons. It is a road, in fact, that has caused many mourning to many Sardinian families and not only and that had been assigned to the special accounts of Civil Protection on the occasion of the definition of all the work functional to the conduct of the meeting of the G8 in La Maddalena, meeting that then, instead, has been moved, as is known to everyone, to another Region and to another city, because of the calamitous events that occurred in that city. The works for Sassari-Olbia will end in 2020 and we risked to bring the resources destined for the completion of that artery again in the cauldron of ANAS, thus preventing, in fact, a rapid realization of the still missing lots and preventing a direct intervention in the management of this match of the same Autonomous Region of Sardinia. The date has been moved, and I say this with satisfaction, to 2020. By that date I am sure that the road will be finished and finally we will have a four lane road that connects Olbia, one of the main nodes of the connection to and from Sardinia, to Sassari, another of the most important cities of our Region. There are a few chapters left open, which I would like to stress. One of them is that of an amendment tabled by some of the members of the Democratic Party that we have signed (we have also tabled them ourselves), to solve the problem of teaching directions, of the 2,000 vacant locations and also of the situations associated with that teaching staff. In the face of a competition procedure that has developed in part and is the subject of litigation, there is a difficulty in managing the merged premises, with a permanent confusion of responsibilities, because when the same direction is given 3 or 4 seats (for a total of 2,500, 3,000 or 3,500 pupils) operating conditions are certainly at risk for the safety and education of children, as well as for the efficiency of education. In addition, professionalism is maintained in a position to carry out managerial functions at a lower level, although having gained great skills and experience in this field. I do not know what will come out definitively, because the work of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs has left some concern on these issues. According to the latest news on the subject, it is likely that the amendments tabled to Article 4 have not been accepted in the Commission and are therefore not included in the final text of the measure. We will continue this battle, because it affects the whole country and, in particular, the Mezzogiorno and the island territories. I repeat: we will continue this battle. We also tell the Government that there is a path to be taken to strengthen the relationship with the world of school and that this path also concerns this topic, but not only, because it concerns more overall the need for recognition and the framing of teaching staff, of which there is now urgency, a good management of assignments and, as much as possible, the maintenance of teachers in the regions of belonging and possibly, in the Provinces of residence. We must reconnect the country that is schooly, that is, that thinks about the education of our children and grandchildren, with Parliament and the Government, that is, with the institutions of political representation. If this is not done, the price that will be paid in terms of the credibility of democratic institutions will be very high. A comment also on the precarious: mind you, colleagues, our country does not grow and one of the reasons why it does not grow is because the occupation is stopped. Ten years ago, in 2007, we had about 22 million employees, who were occupied much more solid, robust and well paid than the current ones; today we have the same number of employees and it has been ten years. Our country is still and will not grow if the employed workers do not increase and the economic treatment of employees and the possibilities of self-employment are not properly reorganized. That of the precarious is a matter that has been dragging for a long time. We hypocritically adopted local finance rules that prevented hiring where they needed to be, thereby blocking competitive activities. We have gone to use surreptitious tools to replace the main road: we have made agreements with temporary working societies, we have made precarious assumptions, co.co.pro, co.co.co; we have also used the allocation of work parts to individual companies with very imaginative forms of procurement; we have increased the advisory regime and yet the precarious lot remains firm. We have dealt with this issue in a special way for ISTAT and we have achieved a result which is not what we wanted and we will continue our fight in this regard too.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-02-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-762.ana.u29	He's enlisted to speak Senator Count. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-02-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-762.ana.u30	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, the work of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs has been hard but certainly hard, aimed at improving the content and quality of the text. Deprecable or not, the milleproroghe is a tool that is necessary to overcome historical contingency or to ensure adequate time for the approval or implementation of systemic reforms. Entering into the substance of the measure, the various provisions are made in continuity with many measures already adopted by the current Government and aim to extend deadlines or deadlines whose importance requires a delay over time. As every year, the text ranges between extremely different sections. With regard to the defence sector, with amendments adopted in the Commission, it was decided to extend the replacement allowance for the military companion for the next three years. It has been decided to extend until 30 May 2018 the mandate of the members in office of the Central Council interforces of the military representation, of the central, intermediate and basic Councils of the Italian Army, of the Navy, of the Military Air Force, of the Arm of the Carabinieri and of the Corps of the Guard of Finance, elected in the categories of the military personnel in permanent and voluntary service. Election procedures for the renewal of the Representation Councils should therefore be completed by 15 July 2018. In infrastructure and transport, road safety posts have been removed for three years. In order to improve and increase the ability to design and carry out investments, as well as to contain the costs of realization, the ANAS Group will not apply, for the three years 2017-2019, the rules of containment of expenditure for study and consultancy assignments and for training strictly related to the technical activities of design, monitoring and technical-economic checks on road interventions. While for the implementation of maintenance and safety of the Group's road network, for the three-year period 2017-2019, the rules relating to the constraints and limits on recruitment with reference to graduates and graduates for technical and engineering positions, as well as to operational technical personnel, do not apply. The payment of the annual contribution to be paid by hauliers for registration in the national register has again been deferred. The extension shall postpone the payment of the contribution by another month until 31 March. In the field of tourism, the Commission extended by one year, from the end of 2016 to 3 December 2017, the obligation to adapt to the fire-fighting rules for accommodation facilities with more than 25 beds. In this way, hoteliers will be able to carry out the new legislation with seriousness and rigour, without further referrals. The Constitutional Affairs Commission to the Senate has given the green light to the postponement of the terms for the definition of tourist districts, which will now have to be defined by 31 December 2017 by the Ministry of Cultural Heritage. For the smaller islands more economic breath has been guaranteed thanks to a new possibility of remodulation of the disembarkation contributions, no longer subject to the suspension of the taxes, previewed from law of stability 2016. In order to support university research, contracts for fixed-term researchers are extended to 31 December 2017. In the context of gas distribution, in order to allow contracting stations to determine the plans for the reconstruction of distribution networks to be included in the contract notice, the time limits for the publication of invitations to tender for the assignment of the natural gas distribution service in the areas in which earthquaked municipalities are present are further extended by 24 months. After the initial success of the project, the assignments of collaboration for participation in the project activities and support to the Grande Progetto Pompei were extended. The norm intervenes on the dispositions relative to the special operating modalities used in the management of the participations of the archaeological area of Pompeii, in order to guarantee the continuation of the activities of protection, recovery and valorization of the site and the neighboring areas and to start the progressive start of the return in the total ordinary management of the site in the within of the special superintendence for Pompeii in times consonious with the particular requirements of the area. In particular, the extension of the functions of the Project Director-General, which was audited in 7th Commission a few days ago, and the related support structure for the Grande Pompei unit is extended in order to ensure the full and effective performance of the tasks assigned. According to the same logic of continuity, it is also expected that the collaboration of the components of the technical design secretariat activated at the special superintendence for Pompeii can last thirty-six months, so that this structure can continue to operate in support of the Superintendence itself. Great attention has been devoted to the artistic field with the further authorization of expenditure of 10 million euros for the year 2017 in favor of the lyrical-symphonic foundations. Finally, special attention was given to populations affected by the 2016 earthquake or other natural disasters and emergency interventions. In particular, the deadline for the suspension of payments of loan instalments and other loans in municipalities affected by the 2016 earthquake is extended to 31 December 2017 and is extended for a further six months, limited to those affected who declare that the building, house of residence, professional studio or company is unimaginable, the temporary suspension of the terms of payment of invoices (gas, electricity, water, insurance, telephone, RAI). Moreover, within the framework of the balance sheet, the possibility of expenditure for earthquake-stricken entities for the year 2017 for interventions aimed at dealing with exceptional seismic events and reconstruction, financed with a surplus of administration or debt operations, for which the institutions have executive projects drawn up and validated in accordance with the current legislation, complete with the time schedule of the expenditure. In relation to the needs related to the reconstruction following the seismic events that took place since 24 August 2016, for the year 2017 an extraordinary contribution is allocated to the municipalities affected by the seismic events to cover the higher expenses and the lower revenues for a total of 32 million euros. Finally, the extraordinary contribution for the reconstruction in favor of the Municipality of L'Aquila is refinanced for 2017. I have tried to sum up, in a few words, a number of measures, which I believe to be extremely important, but they are only a small part of what is contained in this measure, of which I would like to see rapid approval. [[Applause from Senator Torrisi]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-02-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-762.ana.u31	Senator Girotto is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-02-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-762.ana.u32	Madam President, citizens, colleagues, I would like to ask your attention to two provisions contained in the measure concerning the development and protection of consumers: the reform of the tariff of non-domestic users, contained in Article 6 (9), and the one-year shift (from 1 January 2017 to 1 January 2018), the obligation to cover 50% of consumption for hot water, heating and cooling in order to issue building permits on newly built buildings, contained in Article 12 (2). As you know, the need to cope with the current climate upheavals has combined most of the world's states around the Paris Agreement (COP 21). An agreement, in our opinion, to the bottom, in which the former Prime Minister Renzi will say, for the umpteenth time, a green act that not even "Who has seen it" knows what happened. An act in which States could and should have done more. Beyond this, however, Europe has at least consequently adopted the "Clean Energy for All" package, on which Member States are called upon to commit themselves to producing zero-emission electricity by 2050, with the 2030 targets of achieving 30% increase in energy efficiency and 27% of energy production from renewable sources. Although Europe has therefore identified an economic strategy on climate and energy with a clear direction, Italy continues to intervene with commercial measures to defend the old dinosaur: a centralized energy system fueled by fossil fuels; at the same time it grants a content that puts in a situation of uncertainty the operators who respect the rules. In Article 6, the Government postpones the application of the tariff reform to January 1, 2018 (reform, remember, inserted with a real blow of hand in the measure thousandprorogues last year) and overturns the decision taken by the so-called "cut bills" moving the charges from consumption to withdrawal from the electricity grid. It should be remembered that for a year, despite the commitments made by Minister Calenda, operators in the industrial and entrepreneurial production sector have not been aware of the cost of electricity consumption. For those who are listening to me, especially for the citizens, I would like to repeat this: throughout 2016 companies have not been able to know and still do not know exactly the price of electricity. I realize that it seems an unlikely joke, incredible, but for the whole of 2016 and even today the companies have not been able to know precisely the cost of electricity: every comment is superfluous. How can we compete, compete in this market and above all invest? In fact, you don't invest. The new provision also exempts those who produce and self-sustain energy produced from fossil fuels, contrary to what Europe demands, i.e. to support with the exemption only the self-consumption from renewable sources and cogeneration. In this context, we must bear in mind that the Authority has not been able to quantify the self-consumption energy and the impact on the whole burden configuration. It is certain, however, that the exemption enriches some large industrial groups and penalises other consumers, who will be in a position to pay more charges and therefore suffer an unintentional increase in the costs of the electricity bill. (at 12.13 p.m.) (Follow GIROTTO). In Article 12, we consider it regrettable to postpone the obligation of 50% of the share of energy use from renewable sources in order to obtain the building title for new buildings, planned for 2017, considering that it concerns only a small part of the buildings concerned compared to the large existing building stock and that the imposition can be overcome with a simple acquittal of a qualified technician. These contents of the measure show the continuity of the current Government compared to the previous one in industrial energy policy. Without any strategy, it continues to hinder the creation of a decentralised, renewable and efficient energy model, which could help to really meet the needs and the need for new jobs, creating many opportunities for economic and employment development and, at the same time, protecting health and the environment. The 5 Star Movement considers it of common sense to modify as proposed the provision to protect consumers from improper costs and to restore the certainties necessary to make live a sector that must become, as for other States that look forward, strategic for our country. [[Applause from the M5S Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-02-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-762.ana.u33	He's enlisted to speak Senator Galimberti. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-02-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-762.ana.u34	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, a decree to extend deadlines is a clear defeat for the government which has launched it. From the extreme ratio, in recent years it has become a wild card to save itself from unfulfilled deadlines. A tactical maneuver that highlights the inability of Palazzo Chigi to plan an efficient political strategy for the country; a measure whose absurdities are many: the necessary extension of Naspi so that workers in involuntary unemployment do not lose their rightful support caused by the lack of a reform of welfare; the incomprehensible repetition of the appointment, with a compensation of 100,000 euros, of the commissioner ad acta for the earthquake of Irpinia back in 1980; the incredible postponement for the twelfth time of the term to attribute to the prefects the task of soliciting the municipalities in the approval of forecast budgets; the instrumental extension of contracts of the fixed-term employees of the Provinces to postpone the solution of the long-term problem of the contrast between the referendum and the Delrio law. Among the most critical points of this decree, however, there is the extension of the application of the Bolkestein Directive to 2018, an unholy decision dictated above all by a promise made by the former Premier for electoral purposes. On this issue has been done, from the implementation decree of 2010 to the agreement in the unified conference of 2012, moreover legitimized - I emphasize - also by the Constitutional Court, in order to ensure an adequate planning of the work of the parties involved. On this basis many regions and hundreds of municipalities in December had begun the selection procedures and opened the stage of submission of applications for the allocation of new concessions. But now everything is suspended in a legal limbo. What should Municipalities and Businesses do? The Government has created a total interpretative confusion and so the administrations have responded in a disorganic way: some municipalities have suspended the calls while others have decided to continue the procedures anyway and others still do not know how to behave. This normative disorder has only fueled tensions and chaos that also resulted in yesterday's demonstration, in which a squadron of streetwalkers, not belonging to any national organization of category, held a road hostage, blocked the work on the measure and, if not enough, was received in the Senate. Attitude to say the least censorable, because it creates a dangerous precedent and because it gives the idea that in this country it gets more those who resort to force and disorder than those who move within legality. On the contrary, it must be appreciated the balance adopted by the entrepreneurial associations of Confcommercio and Confesercenti that, with a constructive dialectic, have carried out their right demands in order to safeguard their associates, small family enterprises whose economic future is connected to their activity. Following yesterday's protest in Piazza, the Commission had to find a square with a salomonic solution, approving an amendment proposing the extension of concessions to 31 December 2018, while allowing municipalities to start bans even before that date. In short, a downward pact for those thousands of companies that, in view of the new legislation, had already started their obligations, also supporting the related costs. Let's be frank: Bolkestein is a crazy directive, but Palazzo Chigi does not have the strength to oppose it and he bends again in Brussels to avoid intensifying the already heavy tensions with Europe. Also in this case, the reason of state is not compatible with the reasons of the country that produces, but it is known: this Government always puts the games of palace before the interests of Italians. [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-02-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-762.ana.u35	Senator Ruta is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-02-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-762.ana.u36	Mr President, first of all, I would like to say that there are answers to a number of needs arising in the country, through legislation that has not always been met over time. The climate in the Committee on Constitutional Affairs has been absolutely proactive and positive and I must acknowledge the Commission's pro-tempore President that he has carried out the work in a commendable way, as well as the excellent work done by both the rapporteur and the Undersecretary, Mr Pizzetti, who has been present. Constructive was also the dialogue between all political forces, which also experienced moments of bitter confrontation, but produced a satisfactory result. Unsolved criticalities remain, prompting some issues of merit to be addressed as soon as possible. I am talking about issues that concern the world of school and security, which other interventions before me have recalled, and other crucial sectors of our country's economic life. In particular, we have experienced moments of great tension with the implementation of the Bolkestein directive, which has been transposed into our order, which has produced very lively discussions. In fact, an issue has been strongly raised by the operators of the sector, through a demonstration in my opinion legitimate - I want to tell those who preceded me - as a fruitful expression of freedom and democracy. In fact, if people go to the streets, instead of doing their job and fulfilling their obligations to earn and bring home their income, it means that they obviously have a problem: woe if the institutions were deaf to the issues posed by a manifestation carried out so clearly and civilly. The issue of street trade has had a number of thoughts which I do not agree with at all and must be dealt with by noting that the Bolkestein Directive on street trade should not have been transposed. It seems to me a simple argument, but we should have regulated it by national legislation, allowing the municipalities to better regulate licensing, avoiding abuses and mergers of licences in the few cases in which this happens, and allowing them to remedy some of the malfunctions that still exist. Without such dysfunctions, in fact, we are talking about families who live thanks to that activity and with that income, because they have invested in that autonomous activity their existence. That is why I had tabled amendments that moved the application of the Bolkestein directive on street trade to 2020 and an amendment in this House that I intend to withdraw today, just because I know that there will be the issue of trust, in order to turn it into an agenda, which I intend to deposit. It commits the Government to exclude trade in public areas from the application of the European Union Directive 2006/123/EC. I say this because, beyond the agenda, I believe it is necessary to carry out a collective reflection among all political forces, so that, by means of a legislative act (because it has to have regulatory value), it is jointly decided to remove the street trade from the application of the Bolkestein directive. I believe that this must be done, after yesterday's adoption of an amendment, certainly of mediation, with which the extension of concessions was fixed at 31 December 2018, but requiring the municipalities to proceed with the calls. Before the municipalities take action, I believe that the Italian Parliament must reflect on this in order to eliminate the Bolkestein directive and therefore its transposition from our legislation. It is a useful battle, so that thousands of families are not deprived of the place where they work normally. Those families, beyond anything else, make possible the existence of many fairs and of many local markets and citizens, that animate our cities. I believe that, even within this measure, several things could have been improved. But we are examining a decree-law extending terms and not a decree-law of merit. This was however an opportunity to focus some critical issues and some unsolved nodes, which must be examined and addressed immediately by the Commissions of merit. In fact, in the Committee on Constitutional Affairs we had the opportunity to highlight exactly some of the issues that concern the quality of life of our fellow citizens and some issues that remain unresolved and that need instead an adequate response, including from the financial point of view. There are certainly the question of the earthquake, the question of reconstructions and the so-called house floor, which must be considered not only in the earthquake zones, but throughout Italy, because Italy has just this extraordinary, an incredible number of municipalities perched, especially on the entire Apennine ridge (but not only), in which beautiful medieval villages must be renovated. If we are looking at the regeneration and restructuring of our villages, we can immediately relaunch the construction sector, but there is a need for many funds, in order to avoid excessive and no longer sustainable land exploitation.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-02-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-762.ana.u37	The professors and students of the Liceo Scientifico (Alfonso Maria de' Liguori) in Acerra, in the province of Naples, are following the Senate's work. Welcome to the Senate. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-02-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-762.ana.u38	Senator Amidei is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-02-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-762.ana.u39	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I am speaking, given the time available to me, on an amendment which I tabled to the Multipronged Decree-Law. This is amendment 6.117, which aims to bring to the attention the opportunity that the territories that host plants for the extraction of gaseous hydrocarbons and whatever else, as well as regasifiers and offshore plants, can benefit from the benefits provided by Law No 99 of 23 July 2009, article 45, paragraph 2, where they are granted, as stated in this article of law, the benefits to the territories and regions that host this type of plants. I had already spoken on this issue during the Stability Act for 2016 and in December 2015 my agenda was approved with a recommendation to the Government to engage in this. Alas, it has been more than a year, but nothing has been done. It is true and well-known that the agendas do not count for anything, but it is unacceptable that we proceed and continue in this direction, without these agendas, after years, being able to have at least partial, if not total, follow-up. Paragraph 2 of Article 45 of Law No 99 of 2009, therefore, is not a privilege for a specific territory, such as that of the Po Delta, where, among other things, I reside. Off the coast of this territory, in fact, there is an offshore plant of the known multinational Adriatic LNG, the only regasification plant present in Italy, which in a year can have a stock of 8 billion cubic meters of gas. I believe that this is an important capacity and installation for a territory like ours. We pay a service, which is provided at national level, whose pipelines pass through the Polesan territory and leave nothing to this territory. I therefore believe that the time has come, as in 2012, to give rise to the aforementioned paragraph 2, which specifically and explicitly speaks of the benefits in favour of the territories that host this type of plants. I have therefore tabled a further agenda in this respect, which I hope will be accepted. I do not accept, however, that you pretend nothing, while I continue to use this pulpit, for many important aspects, but that it stops being heard when you are not heard. I say in a very clear and clear way that the province of Rovigo asks and claims that the effectiveness of paragraph 2 of Article 45 of Law No. 99 of 23 July 2009 is restored: the time has come to give Caesar what is Caesar's. I therefore hope, Mr President, that these words will not continue to be ignored. We will also see the outcome of the agenda that I have presented in this respect, including by changing the way the fuel pump is discounted, because this is specifically referred to. There was even talk of a social card, for initiatives of a social nature on the territory, but none of this has been done. I therefore ask and demand that this rule be restored and that the fuel pump be allowed to be reduced for residents in the territories with this type of plant and, in the specific case, for those in the province of Rovigo. Therefore, Mr President, I will fight for the time we are given to remain in this assembly and in this House so that the rights of the citizens of these territories and, in the specific case, of the province of Rovigo can be protected, guaranteed and brought back to their rightful right and to their rightful claims. Having the opportunity to put their voice back here, I will do so until the last day I am part of this House. [[Applause from the FI-PdL XVII Group and Senator Fucksia. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-02-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-762.ana.u40	Senator Perrone is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-02-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-762.ana.u41	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, since 2004, Parliament has been debating and approving a measure such as the so-called'multi-pronge', through which governments, year after year, demonstrate their inability to find legislative solutions to multiple and increasingly numerous problems, which on time remain outstanding. This year, among the government's forgetfulness there are also the pending issues that Matteo Renzi failed to resolve with the budget law, leaving to his successor the burden of finding remedies for decisions not taken by his Government. Only a small part, however, do we find provisions that actually extend legal deadlines, in order to avoid real regulatory imbalances. It is therefore evident that the approval of this decree-law has become for the legislator a necessary custom, which has gone to replace the normal iter for the approval of the laws. All this to the detriment of legal certainty and, above all, of the functions of the oppositions, to which the consideration of matters of national importance is precluded. It is therefore desirable that governments which will take place in the next few years in the direction of Palazzo Chigi start again to use the milleproroghe as an exceptional legislative measure, for provisions that are indeed urgent. At best, the misuse of this legislative instrument indicates the inability of the legislator to find solutions that are different from mere time adjustments; at worst, the Government once again tries to strip Parliament of its prerogatives, avoiding any kind of political contradiction. The decree-laws, in fact, should be used only in cases of necessity and urgency, not to manage the ordinary administration. On the substance of the matter, the measure highlights the contradictions of the policies of the center-left and the difference between its proclamations and the actions that it really succeeds in carrying out. The issues relating to the legislation of the Integrated Waste Traceability System (SISTRI) and the extension for the installation of heat regulation and heat accounting systems are a clear example of what has been said. The environmental code, in fact, has provided for the obligation for institutions and businesses to communicate data and information on special hazardous waste, imposing strong sanctions in the event of non-compliance. Since 2006, what was to be considered a transitional period has in fact prevented the entry into force of the discipline. In this way, instead of putting companies in a position to use the dual system (paper and information technology), the application of the legislation, which is, among other things, of considerable importance in the field of environmental protection, continues to be postponed. In the same way, the bill-milleproroghe postpones the deadline for an additional year relating to the increase of renewable energy for new constructions or major renovations. Legislative Decree No. 28 of 2011 established, in order to achieve the 2020 European energy saving targets, that renewable energy sources linked to winter heating must increase from 35% to 50%. These are rules aimed at increasing the share of renewable sources with a view to reducing pollutant emissions, also on the basis of the commitments made with the signing of the 2015 Paris Climate Agreement. A theme, the reduction of greenhouse gases, which has always been seen as a priority for left-wing policies. Yet, the extensions described show, once again, how much the Government's proclamations, even on this sensitive matter, are bound not to materialize in real and consistent actions. One of the most critical and critical aspects of the decree milleproroghe concerns yet another delay of the entry into force of the fire regulations and the relative safety of the 42,000 Italian school buildings. The paradox is that we are talking about the application of rules dating back to 1992, but that the continuous extensions have rendered ineffective. To date, 60% of schools are not in compliance, despite the Ministerial Decree of 12 May 2016, whose provisions planned to complete the school security plan by 2016. A condition that could even be worth yet another complaint from the European Commission. We are talking about the safety of the places where our children and grandchildren spend their days. Yet in the last four years there have been very few steps forward. In this context, the Government's commitment to secure schools from seismic risk can only appear as a mirror for the lark. In the field of public administration, the Government seems to have noticed only in December that, due to the rule of jobs act, which contains the prohibition of renewal of forward contracts and collaborations, 40,000 precarious public administration would remain out of work in 2017. Problems escaped the path of definition of the decree Madia and that highlight a legislative path full of gaps and shortcomings. In short, not serious. The question, however, is that workers are still waiting to see their problems defined in an ad hoc measure, capable of eliminating that uncertainty which, year after year, is making precarious a condition for many workers. As far as local authorities are concerned, the Government with the milleproroghe has tried to carry on the path begun with the approval of the decree on local authorities approved last August. Although progress has been made, trying to overcome the season of linear cuts and the strict rules concerning the Internal Stability Pact, the sector needs a framework of regulatory and financial stability, characterised by certain and lasting rules. In this sense, the repeal of the criterion of containment of expenditure for staff who have paralysed the management of human resources, as well as the extension of the possibilities of recruitment for municipalities up to 10,000 inhabitants or the derogation of the blockage of turnover renewal for educational and school staff represent improving elements that, in any case, can be considered starting points that are well away from the arrival straight. Above all in the field of local finance, the Government and the legislator must show more courage. Local authorities must be able to return to investment through mechanisms of accountability, and not according to the logic of resources "calated from above." A separate speech deserves the RAI story. The Renzi Government with this measure has prolonged the state concession for the public service to RAI but, above all, has postponed for a year the obligation for the same to respect the constraints that affect all the public administrations. In this way Viale Mazzini will not be forced to hire managers only through competition, to make purchases through the CONSIP plant, to respect the norms of the code of the contracts for the custody of works and supplies; a decision that does not rest on any real criterion, especially if we consider that this year with the payment of the fee in bill the Rai has collected two billion euros. In this respect, we formally invite the Government to report in this House on the reasons behind the decision not to put spending stakes at RAI, when every other public body is doing its part in the full implementation of the spending review. Yesterday, in front of the Senate, the street traders protested to ask for a two-year extension for the expiration of commercial concessions on public areas. The fact that representatives of a category covering 200,000 commercial activities, a few days after the approval of the measure, had to arrive from all over Italy to draw the attention of the legislator to their requests, shows how the Executive and the parliamentary majority are deaf to the real needs of the Italians. Similarly, the Government's attempt to reduce compensation for municipalities hosting nuclear power stations that are being disposed of without agreeing to intervene with local administrators is proof of how fallacious this way of lawmaking is. The adoption of the measures requires a majority of votes in Parliament. The approval of good laws also requires the consent of citizens and industry categories. Leaving aside these conditions, it means forcing Italy to remain tight in the grip of the economic crisis and unemployment, which is starving our citizens. I strongly advise the members of this Government, especially the Ministers, to spend less time in via del Nazareno and to deal more with the problems of the Country: a gesture of responsibility that in this particular historical moment, in which politics has become synonymous with unreliability, becomes an institutional duty to which it is not allowed to escape. [[Applause from Senator Liuzzi.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-02-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-762.ana.u42	I shall refer the following to another session of the draft law.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-02-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-762.ana.u43	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-02-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-762.ana.u44	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-02-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-762.ana.u45	GIROTTO (M5S). Mr President, citizens, colleagues, in the past we have repeatedly criticised the role played by the Electricity and Gas Authority and the Water System. In particular, on the reform of electricity tariffs for domestic customers, the 5 Star Movement has denounced the excess of power exercised by the Authority that goes beyond the limits of its regulatory competences when, overcoming the legislative role of Parliament - therefore, colleagues, overlooking us - intervenes by deciding the addresses of the country's energy policy. To be more clear: with the reform of the tariffs that will go to regime from 1 January 2018, moving from consumption to fixed amounts components of the bill, the Authority has made economically inconvenient the interventions of savings, of energy efficiency and of self-production of energy from renewable sources, directing, in fact, the consumer to consume from the electricity grid now mainly produced from fossil sources - I remind the citizens that two thirds of the electricity is still produced from fossil sources - thus discouraging it to carry out interventions of self-consumption or of reduction of consumption, topic on which the majority of Parliament - we, dear colleagues - did not give signals. Evidently, that's okay. Again, in the 20/2017/eel report, on the examination of milleproroghe, the Authority goes further, considering that closed distribution systems, fundamental for the development of self-consumption from renewable sources, and energy efficiency interventions should not be implemented in order to promote competition in electricity networks. It is a conflicting position with the report of the Competition Authority and the market of July 2016, in which it noted that any obstacles to the existence of private networks define discrimination in favour of the dominant model of electricity system organisation - I repeat: in favour of the today dominant model of electricity system organisation - based on the centralisation of electricity generation in large plants and on the transmission and distribution through public networks of electricity and consumption unit, which mostly reflects the technological choices made in the past and does not favour the evolution of networks towards new models of electricity system organisation that can usefully contribute to the achievement of the general objectives of energy convenience for users, innovation, security and financial sustainability of the national electricity system, as well as to the protection of competition. These are not my words, but Antitrust. The Competition and Market Authority also calls on Parliament to revise and supplement the regulatory and regulatory framework on closed distribution systems, in order to enable the creation of new private electricity networks other than the Riu and to remove unjustified restrictions on competition between different organisational modes of electricity grids and between different generation technologies. In conclusion, I would ask my colleagues not to leave to others the energy policy decisions that would be up to Parliament and the Government to implement the agenda G/2085/48/10 in order to restore the possibility of implementing closed distribution systems.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-02-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-762.ana.u46	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-02-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-762.ana.u47	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-02-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-762.ana.u48	FACTORS (M5S). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to point out that last week I tabled a question concerning the direct custody of the waste collection service to the company A.E.T SpA, a subsidiary of the Municipality of Ciampino, highlighting a series of irregularities which I would call not only embarrassing but also very worrying. Waste management is a very sensitive issue. In particular, I refer to the characteristics required by Legislative Decree No. 50 of 18 April 2016 (which has transposed European directives), which imposes the existence of three fundamental requirements in order to be able to remain in a house providing regime (i.e. direct trust, avoiding a competition between managers). The three characteristics are as follows: the existence of similar control, 80% of turnover must be vis-à-vis the members of the group and there must be no direct participation of private capital. Well, there are doubts about two of the three points and, above all, about the fact that 80% of the turnover clings to services to its members, as the same company has declared it both in December and in the forecast of 2017, without however making known the calculations that would greatly lower the percentage. So there are very serious doubts about the 80% percentage already. On the contrary, there are certainties about the absence of similar control that - as the law provides - must be provided for in the statute approved by the municipal councils of the Municipal members and, therefore, have the role of an official document that does not exist to date. This is a very serious situation, which would render void the contracts signed by A.E.T. SpA with the various municipalities, which exploits in a completely irregular way the possibility of direct call, going to have a negative impact on the free market in a context where - I am referring to the Lazio Region - for the management of waste there were to say little of the irregularities, thus being able to shape conflicts of interest especially with the political world, which has a very long hand on the waste sector. The TAR of Pescara declared void a contract with these shortcomings in November 2016, in a judgment concerning a company to which similar shortcomings were contested. I repeat, therefore, that it is a different company, with similar shortcomings, but it has been cancelled its contract. There are very clear DAC rulings and judgments at European level. By the way, the company in question is not even included in the national list provided by law for house providing, i.e. direct custody. We are forbidden to learn that this is not the only situation in our country. I remember that we are about to implement a decree-law that allows the Agency for territorial cohesion to conclude special agreements with the companies in house that - apparently - are not in order and, therefore, receive direct trusts not having the right. It is true that this applies only to some regions, but in this case money would be provided from cohesion funds to realities which would not have the right to do so. I therefore ask the Minister to make a real effort to provide an answer. Since many of our questions on waste in Lazio do not get it, we of the 5 Star Movement, at various institutional levels, are presenting a statement to the prosecutor hoping that it will be more prompt than ministers.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-02-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-762.ana.u49	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-02-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-762.ana.u50	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-02-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-762.ana.u51	CUCCA (PD). Mr President, I take the floor to commemorate someone to whom I am personally very attached. Senator Ariuccio Carta died yesterday morning in Cagliari, a distinguished politician who gave lustre to the whole of Sardinia and has been a reference point for me since I was a child since he came to political life. He was regional councillor from 1965 to 1967 for only two years, immediately entering the Chamber of Deputies in 1967, where he remained for the V, VI, VII and VIII legislature, then becoming senator in the IX and X legislature. In the IX he was also for three years Minister of the Merchant Navy in the Craxi Government. After graduating from Catholicism, he was a lawyer, president of the Nuoro Order, president of the regional order of curies for long years. Ariuccio Carta lived the most fruitful and lively moment of Sardinian political life. Very young militant of the Christian Democracy, after having attended the movement called the Young Turks, he put himself at the head of a movement at the age of thirty taking the same Christian Democracy of Nuoro into his hands against the milestones of democratic life not only Sardinian, but of the entire nation, like Minister Salvatore Mannironi. And at the age of thirty, he took over the leadership of the Christian Democracy in Nuoro and then in Sardinia with the so-called Gian Burrasca movement, taking over the reins of the Christian Democracy. It was a particularly flourishing moment characterized by an extraordinary cultural and political ferment that left an indelible trace in the democratic life of my island and started a path of political formation of a new young and renewed political class that then gave life to that movement that gave to national politics numerous figures who distinguished themselves not only in the regional, but also in the national field. Ariuccio Carta was the expression of a new and young policy, which had always present the problems of Sardinian, Sardinian and Southern Italy. It is no coincidence that he was Secretary of State for Finance, the Merchant Navy, Industry and the Treasury, and several times Secretary of State for the Presidency of the Council of Ministers with the delegation to the policies of the Mezzogiorno. And it was precisely this that characterized his political activity: a vision always wide and focused on the search for the solution of the problems of Sardinia and the whole Mezzogiorno. He was President of the Committee on Agriculture and, last but not least, for two legislatures, President of the bicameral committee of inquiry into the scandal of the BNL branch in Atlanta. He was also a valiant lawyer, son of lawyer and brother of a lawyer and a valiant and high magistrate of Sardinia. I had the honour of carrying out forensic practice at his office and of following his political path. I was initiated into politics by him. It was a jurist's end, who taught me to always combine the dowry of the simple but refined lawyer's elocution with a deep knowledge of the law. I remember it in this way and allow me, President, to express on my personal behalf, to Mrs Paola, to her daughter Raffaella, to her sisters Vannina and Egle and to all her grandchildren, for whom she has always represented - and will do so forever - a firm and solid point of reference, the deep sense of my grief, of my pain and also of regret for a figure who has traced the political history of Sardinia. And I think my feelings are shared by all of us. [[Applause from the PD Group and Senator Puglia.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-02-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-762.ana.u52	Before giving the floor to other colleagues, the Presidency intends to join in the expression of condolence of Senator Cucca and in the remembrance of the figure of national and parliamentary importance, as well as of course historical in Sardinian politics, of Senator Carta, and it must be associated with the whole Assembly of Palazzo Madama. The Presidency also supports the condolences expressed to the family members.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-02-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-762.ana.u53	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-02-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-762.ana.u54	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-02-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-762.ana.u55	FLORIS (FI-PdL XVII). Mr President, I can only associate my condolences with that of those who preceded me, Senator Cucca, who brilliantly traced the figure and political activity - and not only - of Senator Carta, in a way that I consider to be exhaustive. With Senator Ariuccio Carta I shared many moments of politics, however living near my home. After the active politics in the Senate - his last presence in the Senate dates back to 1992 - he did not miss his participation in many conferences. His great passion for politics often led him to stop me, a young politician of that time - let's talk about the years 1994-1996 and the period to follow - to talk about politics with an enthusiasm that can hardly be seen in the many representatives of active politics. Having said that, it is particularly dear to me also because, in my exercise as mayor of the City of Cagliari, I had the pleasure of having in Junta the son of Ariuccio, Paolo, as a very valid city councilman, unfortunately prematurely disappeared. I associate myself with the condolences expressed by Senator Cucca and with what you, President, expressed on behalf of the Senate, adding my staff to the entire Senator Carta family.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-02-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-762.ana.u56	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-02-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-762.ana.u57	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-02-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-762.ana.u58	URAS (Mixed). Mr President, I rise to express my condolences and condolences to the whole of the Mixed Group for the mourning that has struck national politics, and to the Sardinian one in particular, with the disappearance of Ariuccio Carta, a man engaged in politics starting from youth with the militancy in Catholic movements and the solution of the problems that still unfortunately concern the Mezzogiorno of Italy and Sardinia. And it is no coincidence that the main functions of government Ariuccio Carta have carried them out precisely in Dicasteries that have as their main objective the rebirth of Sardinia and the whole Mezzogiorno of Italy. We are close to the family in this moment of mourning, but we are also close to all the Sardinian people who have recognized in their political experiences a fundamental contribution to the rebirth of Sardinia and its economic and social condition. Unfortunately, in recent years that condition has weighed down and the tension towards the Mezzogiorno has gradually decreased, almost to the point of disappearing, almost to consider the whole Mezzogiorno, and Sardinia in particular, as a burden for the rest of the country. We believe that the Government, Parliament and all of us have a duty to recover the values that have been expressed by Mr Ariuccio Carta mainly around the issues of the economy and society that concern our country.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-02-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-762.ana.u59	The motions, questions and questions received by the Presidency will be published in Annex B to today's report. I recall that the Senate will return to public session today, at 4.30 p.m., on the same agenda. The sitting was closed at 13.06 a.m.
