ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-905.ana.u1	The sitting is open (9:01 a.m.). The Minutes shall be read. Mr Amati, secretary, read the Minutes of the sitting of the previous day.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-905.ana.u2	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-905.ana.u3	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-905.ana.u4	SANTANGELO (M5S). Madam President, I would like to ask for the vote on the Minutes, subject to a quorum check. Verification of quorum
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-905.ana.u5	I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators, by electronic procedure. (The request is supported). I therefore call on the senators to make their presence known by electronic means. (Follows the quorum check.) The Senate has a quorum. Resumption of the debate on the Minutes I put the Minutes to the vote. It's approved.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-905.ana.u6	The list of senators on leave and absent on assignment received from the Senate, as well as further communications to the Assembly, will be published in Annex B to today's Minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-905.ana.u7	I would warn you that qualified votes can be taken in the course of today's sitting by electronic means. Therefore, from this moment the period of 20 minutes from the notice provided for in Article 119, paragraph 1 of the Regulation (9.06 hours) begins.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-905.ana.u8	The next item is the continuation of the debate on draft law Nos. 2941, already approved by the Chamber of Deputies in a text resulting from the unification of the draft own-initiative law of Toninelli and others; Giachetti; Pisicchio; Lauricella; Locatelli and others; Orphini; Hope; Menorello and others; Wolves and Misuraca; Vargiu and Matarrese; Nicoletti and others; Parisi and Abrignani; Dellai and others; Lauricella; Cuperlo; Toninelli and others; Rigoni; Martella; Invernizzi and others; Valiante and others; Turco and others; Meloni Marco; La Russa and others; D'Attorre e altri; Forty; Menorello and others; Brunetta and others; Wolves and Misuraca; Constantine and others; Pisicchio; Fragomeli and others, 2621, 2726, 2749, 2762, 2793, 2843, 2876, 2905, 2911 and 2938. Senator Mussini is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-905.ana.u9	Madam President, Italy is a Republic, res publica, less and less public, in which the advantages go more and more to private individuals and the public good is less and less in the hands of the public; it is founded on work, a work that was already in crisis and that with the last measures, approved in this legislature, has been further massacred as value and not only as an entity and as a quantity; then we come to the top, that is to say, the affirmation that sovereignty belongs to the people and sovereignty belongs to the people insofar as... [[Brusio.]] Madam President, I would ask my colleagues if they could allow me to speak.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-905.ana.u10	I ask colleagues on my right to avoid making huts and allow the senator to speak. It's a little complicated, please proceed.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-905.ana.u11	MUSSINI (Mixed). This sovereignty actually belongs more to colleagues than to the people and will belong less and less to the people, because with this electoral bill, rules of engagement are laid down. I ask Senator Azzollini to let me continue gently. I was saying that sovereignty, with this provision, will certainly belong even less to the people. Of course, when we entered the Senate, we entered with a law that already in the name indicated the dignity with which we entered, a law with which we were not chosen and which was declared unconstitutional. I believe that we have all suffered, or at least I have suffered from the fact that I have not been chosen and that I cannot have a clear and concrete idea of how many people entrusted to me personally the task of representing them. There is no free vote in this bill. In the audition I heard a statement that made my hair up on my head, that the vote is free.... [[Brusio]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-905.ana.u12	Colleagues, Senator Petrocelli, Senator Sposetti, please.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-905.ana.u13	MUSSINI (Mixed). Senator Spousetti is only interested in vitality, in popular sovereignty he cares little. [[Applause from Senator Cappelletti.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-905.ana.u14	Look, Senator Mussini, it was mostly Senator Petrocelli making noise.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-905.ana.u15	MUSSINI (Mixed). I know Senator Petrocelli was in his place. Senator Sposetti wasn't. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Please proceed, let's stay on the subject and respect Senator Sposetti. [[Comments from the M5S Group.]] MUSSINI (Mixed). No, let's respect Senator Mussini who's talking. [[Applause from Senator Bignami.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-905.ana.u16	But you're addressing Senator Spousetti.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-905.ana.u17	Montevecchi (M5S). It's unworthy! MUSSINI (Mixed). If you'd let me move on, I'd appreciate it too. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator Mussini, continue. MUSSINI (Mixed). I hope I can recover this time, but the people will be massacred anyway, whether I speak or not. As I was saying, at the hearing I heard that it is a free vote because one is also free to stay at home, i.e. to vote or not, and if he dislikes the fact that he cannot vote in a clear and transparent way and indicate who wants him to represent him, he can always stay at his house. This is the central point: sovereignty in this country does not belong to the people, but to the parties and also to some movements that become parties. In any case, it does not belong to free choice and free representation. Yesterday I was really shocked to hear the words with which Guido Rossi was reminded, which are more or less the following: when we decide whether or not to vote an amendment we think about what the country needs. This is really the evocation of a surreal scene, because in reality when we decide, that is when they decide to vote on an amendment, they do it because they have someone who gives them an indication. The good of the country is really the least of the concerns. Personally, when I vote on an amendment, I try to understand what it says. I see that the others vote according to party indications. The only one I saw changed my mind was Minister Orlando in the Commission (this must be acknowledged to him), but he is a Minister and perhaps he can decide. You can see that all the peones in here can't decide. [[Comments of Senator Albano]] Only these peones come here to represent people and find themselves framed within a party. Today the parties, all the parties, formulate rules of engagement that are modeled on them and not on the voters, because at the moment when the preference is eliminated, when the mechanisms of return of the votes are activated in a surreptitious and fraudy way, it is clear that the elector is deceived. So the voter is free not to go to vote and in fact does not go. But this does not interest the parties; indeed, it is better, because participation is something difficult to control. He can't care less if they don't participate. The fact that citizens are at home is not relevant; indeed, the less they go to vote the more they are controllable, because they are those who are indirectly or directly on the payroll, who directly or indirectly depend on politics and who will therefore be easily maneuverable and calculable. This surreal scene of the freedom of voting for an amendment could be spared, because to those who are in here what weighs even more is the bulging hypocrisy with which you are dealing for what you are not. The matter of preferences is not just about the voter in a direct way and therefore the possibility of choosing. The matter of preferences is something that concerns even more the chosen one, because the latter knows that it depends on the will of the elector. An elected person who depends on the voter's will depends less on the Baston Leader, changes little whether he is a business master or boss of the workshop. Always head stick is. Hence, preferences serve even more to shape the behavior of the chosen than to give the elector the immediate freedom to choose. Thus all the arguments with which preference is not granted fall, insofar as they are supported by a substantial distrust of the people and reveal a substantial disamore, indeed an annoyance to all democratic mechanisms. In fact, this sovereignty must be managed as a personal heritage, because those who are in here aspire to return to it, to remain there and to exercise power, because in very few people in here I have seen that humility and respect for the electorate that is instead the only one that can animate a true love for democracy. The term governability is ridiculous and cries vengeance, because governability is closely linked to the perception of doing the good of the country. I will be told that the parties have plans. Good. Beyond the fact that I haven't seen anyone in here yet respect a program, there's no respect for principles here. Let me give an example: I am an elector who believes in school as the lung of the growth and development of individual citizens and of the country. So I legitimately think that, beyond the programmes, if I go to vote for someone who seems to have opposed the reform of the school signed by Gelmini, I will certainly get something: perhaps I will not get that reform deleted, but that it is changed, improved, that the situation of the school is still taken to heart. I vote and I find the so-called Giannini law, which not only worsens the conditions of the Gelmini law, but also contradicts very solid principles. It is not just a programme, it is also a matter of principles. I made this example, but I could have done so many more. What does an elector have to do at this point? Who do you have to trust? For what reason should the voter be less able to choose his representatives of those party secretaries, those potentates who are within the parties or movements they choose on the basis of this inconsistency with the principles, declarations, the history itself that first marked the oldest and then the youngest at the time of their entry? Why? Where is the reason that the subject that belongs to the people should give up choice? In here, who has proven to be more able to choose? This is a sign of the lack of what it would take most to be in here, that is, an authentic love for the first lines of the Constitution. In fact, if sovereignty belongs to the people, everyone acts in the name and on behalf of the people, not in name and on behalf of himself, of his own structure of party or movement and for the survival of his own visibility and power. All this, of course, is not in the bill under discussion. Once again an opportunity is lost, but one could not even imagine that it could be taken. Unfortunately, citizens confuse people who interpret institutions with institutions themselves. Unfortunately, because citizens should be the first to make this distinction. It is a bit like Jesus in the temple: take hold of the whip and throw out of the institutions those who are not worthy of it. Instead, they will be forced to accept a law which, after the first two statements of the Constitution have been denied, also denies the third. I, together with others, will not be an accomplice to this bill for perhaps similar and perhaps different reasons; I will not be an accomplice to it even with regret, thinking that unfortunately the people do not seem very willing to take back the institutions. Unfortunately, that great drive to participate that had brought me here is over, too, has been bogged down. On the other hand, the system is difficult to fight, tends to get involved and it is very easy to be involved. We must start all over again, perhaps from school, perhaps from young people, the only slice of people that has never been appointed with respect in this House. Maybe you have to start with the people who are worse, maybe you have to start again right out of these classrooms. [[Applause from Senators Bignami and De Petris.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-905.ana.u18	Senator Romani Maurizio is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-905.ana.u19	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, the first question we have to ask ourselves is who should Rosatellum- bis and who should vote for it? Compared to the current system, namely the Italicum in the Chamber and the Porcellum in the Senate, duly modified by the judgments of the Constitutional Court, this new proposal reopens the door to the coalitions, thus damaging those political forces not coalizable (by own will or others) as the 5 Star Movement, which in fact has already branded this proposal as unconstitutional, refusing even just to take it into consideration. It does not harm small parties, in theory: indeed, in the House it allows them to hang up a larger party in a coalition, perhaps contracting nominations in the single colleges (as was the case with the Mattarellum); moreover it makes their lives easier even to the Senate, even if they remain outside of any coalition: with the law currently in force they should exceed as much as 8% regional to obtain seats. The opposition of MDP and Brothers of Italy can be explained in other ways: being already certain to exceed the existing barriers, they counted on a system for which each party is measured by itself with the vote and, after the elections, can weigh its consents; a system in which there are (even partially) the uninomial colleges forces both to a pre-election coordination with larger parties, with which relations could be anything but benevolent (it is the case of MDP vis-à-vis PD) or at the risk of collecting crumbs in a competition reserved for others (for example between League and Italy Force, to the detriment of Brothers of Italy). We in Italy of Values, when last December the Head of State decided to entrust the office of President of the Council to Paolo Gentiloni Silveri, we undertook to secure the country and our communities. That government was given, thanks to our vote, the mandate to lead the country to vote with a constitutionally legitimate and homogeneous electoral law for the House and Senate. A law capable of electing a Parliament that is an expression of Italian plural articulation and political complexity. A law that favours culturally homogeneous political aggregations. The current proposal, adopted by a large majority in the House of Deputies and under discussion in the Senate, although it is not exactly as much as we in Italy and many of us in this House would have liked, is beyond doubt an effective replacement of the regulatory mess of existing constitutional laws, largely censored by the decisions of the High Court. Let us not forget that the definition of single colleges, the barrier reduced to 3% and the possibility of forming political coalitions, associated with the harmonization of the electoral systems of the House and Senate, represent unquestionable steps forward. I have heard Members speaking in this House who are afraid that this law will lead to a coalition government that will see the PD together with Forza Italia and ALA; perhaps this can be avoided by convincing the voters, especially the many undecided and those who do not go to vote, to reward those political formations, albeit small, that have put themselves in coalition with the sole aim of defending the values in which they believe, made of people who put their faces on us, who have done their part honestly and who will continue to do it in a spirit of service. Yesterday I heard some colleagues, including Senator Endrizzi, saying that we are reducing democracy to a trough. For a while I ate in that democratic trough of the 5 Star Movement and luckily I just got poisoned and not poisoned to death. He also added that the country is exhausted, that people will be voted for who will be willing to raise their hand with a wand and asked if we will be willing to enter these classrooms in the puppet dress. Here, you see, this is often the language that you read on the web; the language of hatred emerges, the portrait that comes out of it is that of fanatics completely dedicated to their ideas: a fanatic whose only interest is for one faith, for one idea; he thinks of acting for the good of the other, but in reality he wants a world in which there is no more the other. The way out of all this is good culture and good politics; in a word, more rule of law and more culture. In this debate, as in many others, the problem is that the facts are not analyzed in their complexity, but according to a very simple scheme: who is the culprit, who we must put to shame, who we must dump all the responsibilities. The hunt for the culprit even when there is no crime has become the main hunt for social networks, where everything is lived as a trial with annexed condemnation: the throwing of virtual stones against the deed. Or what I've heard from Crimes saying that they make the rules according to polls. Perhaps one does not remember the rules that change in the course of work as in the elections of the Marika Cassimatis in Genoa, followed by the memorable commentary of the professor in philosophy and history Morra, who commented on the irrevocable decision of the chief: The consciousness of the limitedness of our ability to understand, grasp, understand rationally, leads us more and more to add to rational intelligence an ability to understand through trust, to "intuition." My intuitiveness suggests me to trust Beppe, today as in many other occasions. In practice, when he lacks the ability to understand rationally, he entrusts himself with his intuitiveness to Beppe Grillo, who for his part asks the militants to trust regardless. But is that what Professor Morra teaches his students? [[Comments of Senator Bottici]] We know that at present no one can make political predictions, not even in the short term. The replacement of the leaders is very fast and unpredictability is the main feature of the international political scene. All this, for me, is due neither to this nor to another electoral bill, but to a much more serious fact with which we must relate: electoral unpredictability is due to the prevalence of digital politics over the real one. A hyper-simplified, sensationalistic, winkling communication, based on advertising and above all on a faithful audience who wants to read what they already know, namely that: politicians are all corrupt and evil and that Grillo has solutions for everything, and that the 5 Star Movement administers in an excellent way the cities in which it is in government. The media and in particular digital propaganda of the 5 Star Movement is capable of producing an imaginary dimension of its role in the political scene. In reality, the political objectives of the 5 Star Movement are not meant to be realized; they are polemics, without a concrete political program and with the sole aim of stirring up the aversion for the other parties (which would not worry about the problems of the people). There is no objective of changing the social and economic situation through established political thinking. They are political proposals that could have a follow-up, but in which a deep amateurism emerges and, worse still, the absolute indifference to carry them forward. This electoral law is against the 5 Star Movement and everyone else is okay with it? But let's not be silly! Against the 5 Star Movement there is only the fact that, rejecting a priori all tactical compromises with the other political forces, none of their proposals has the possibility of being realized, unless they succeed in having the absolute majority in the two branches of Parliament in the next elections and, having no longer seen raised in the Chamber sheets with "51 percent" written, I do not believe we even believe the most optimistic or fanatic among them. We will therefore vote with this electoral law and the extraneousness of the 5 Star Movement to politics will allow it to fuel the party aura of true citizens and honests, avoiding the evidence imposed by the real world, or minimizing them with propaganda when they turn out to be failures. The serious question is that Grillo's rise coincided with the disappearance of any left-wing option from the Italian political scene. The 5 Star Movement is the symptom, not the cause. The Cinquestellas attracted voters who no longer endured the salutary narcissism of the leaders, their empty slogans and what at the time disappointed me too, namely the lack of proposals on work, justice, the environment, school and so on. Politics relied on the magistrates and many of us turned to Grillo. Whatever the electoral law (and - I repeat - this is in favour of the 5 Star Movement, if only because they have a strong theme for campaigning, talking about it badly and bringing people before the Senate to protest against) one thing we will have to deal with is the temptation to entrust the command to lonely men, in direct communication with their peoples, who have risen back in the West. This is the real danger that we will have to explain why the authoritarian populisms of our time are born on the disinterest of political democracy. [[Applause from the PD Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-905.ana.u20	He's enlisted to speak Senator Micheloni. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-905.ana.u21	Madam President, I must confess a difficulty. I tried to prepare a structured surgery, but I found myself meeting my own limit. I can't think about anything unreasonable. I shall then make some considerations on my arm. For the whole assessment of this draft law, I recognize in Mr Tocci's speech yesterday, in the unnecessary amendments and in the unnecessary work done by Mr Chiti, whom I thank, and in the unnecessary work of my amendments, for which I do not thank him. I will only touch one point before making some considerations. As far as the foreign college is concerned, the great surprise is that a central aspect of this measure is changed. It is expected that an Italian citizen resident in Italy will be able to apply in the foreign college. In the past years the subject of discussion on the amendment, to be done or not, to the Constitution in order to foresee the foreign college had been precisely this. The compromise that all political forces built at the time provided for a closed number of parliamentarians and that these parliamentarians should reside in the foreign college. It was the recognition of a representation of communities that live a different reality from the national one, with the other correct correction that these elected must not have the same weight as the citizens who reside permanently in Italy. In fact, if we were to make the numerical report today, if we were to apply the same representation in force for the Italian Senators and Members, we should have thirty senators and about sixty Members. No Italian abroad nourishes, even in the antechamber of the brain, such an idea. We thought, in fact, that our role here should be another: to represent a community and not just political parties. At the time, many constitutionalists dissect this theme. I'm not quoting all the contributions I sent you last week by e-mail and I hope you checked. Only for the Report do I want to resume the constitutional opinion expressed by Carlo Fusaro, who seems to me to sum up well all the others requested by the then Minister Tremaglia for Law No. 459 of 2001: In this regard, consider carefully, avoiding the risk of applications with effect that would risk emptying the very reason of the establishment of the foreign constituency, leading to the election of personalities, perhaps renowned, but with no connection with their representatives and difficult to guarantee that specific type of representative relationship that the constitutional modification, like it or not, has intended to make possible in order to give voice to the very special instances of resident citizens away from Italy and to promote the maintenance of ties that distance makes more difficult to cultivate: for which purposes are, in fact, useful and justified guarantees and special requirements in full respect of the Constitution and of a literal or systematic interpretation, of Articles 3, 48, 51, 56 and 57 of the Constitution. That was the spirit. And in this spirit the Italians abroad welcomed the foreign college trying to make their contribution. Today all this is destroyed - not changed - without even the possibility for us, here in the Senate, to discuss our amendments. Some changes could have been made to this measure, Madam President: for example, I myself had tabled an amendment which brought some improvements. That is why, along with other general considerations, I will not vote on this bill. Let me now give you some thought. The attempt to apply for famous personalities abroad is not new: I had the honour of having Rita Pavone, who is resident in Ticino as an opponent. After the election, we went to count the votes and had twenty times less my preferences. We also had the honour of having as a candidate a prince, the one who participated in the program "Dancing with the stars," who is resident in Geneva, in a sumptuous villa: nobody noticed that he was a candidate. I want to say that these attempts have been made in Europe. However, I am concerned about what I read in the press when it comes to the 'Save Verdini' amendment. Verdini's name has not come out now; in the circles of Italians abroad, after Verdini's first hug to Renzi, this voice began to circulate. I took it as "intoxication" and not as information because I have never followed those voices, but now more information begins to arrive, and this could be one of the reasons. I doubt that Senator Verdini needs to run for office in South America, because there it's easier to maneuver than in Europe, but maybe he could run for some of the characters he's close to. However, before Senator Verdini pays the agreement with the Italian Association Movement abroad (MAIE), I would advise him to apply the old rule of "before seeing camel" because there might be some surprise. The serious aspect of this rule is not for us Italians abroad because we, whether you believe it or not (I hope you can believe me), really strive to maintain ties with our land, with our homeland. We also strive to maintain this bond to our children, to our grandchildren because we have the defect of being affectionately linked to Italy. The presence of foreign parliamentarians in the Italian Parliament - I have said it several times and I want to repeat it here - is not a primary interest of our people: it should be, and I think it is, the interest of Italy. The Italian community in the world over the last ten years has almost doubled. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. You should finish, Senator. MICHELONI (PD). I shall begin with the conclusion, Mr President. On the other hand, after five confidences, one final vote, the tight deadlines, the written amendments and to be thrown away, I believe that a little indulgence, plenary or partial, on the part of the Presidency could be there. I was talking about the bond and the usefulness for Italy. You always talk about brain drain. I think my father, who went to Switzerland to dump coal, also had a brain. All Italians abroad have a brain and that brain has served Italy: let's think of the workers of Volkswagen and Belgian mines who have sent money back to Italy for decades to allow also the economic miracle and build and develop the depressed areas of this country. Those brains serve today when they are researchers and when they are captains of industry who buy Italian products. If Italy has not understood all this I am sorry and, more than for us, I am sorry for our country. This constitutional change, President, has been copied from other countries; it is the only thing that France has copied to Italy. Imagine: France copying something to Italy; yet it did. Other countries are considering it and we have destroyed it. We have destroyed it, partly because of our responsibility, of residents abroad, but also because the parties have always and only seen in foreign colleges an "Indian reserve" of 18 seats, to be taken in any condition and at any cost. This is unacceptable. I am also sorry that you sell this law by saying that it guarantees governability. From the few things I've read, I understand that it doesn't guarantee any governability. This morning I read some projections showing that my party in the North will even disappear. I therefore do not know what can be guaranteed. I remember that governance is guaranteed by politics: in France they elected a President of the Republic and when this was found to govern with a Parliament of another color, the governability of the country was guaranteed. It is politics, and not electoral law, that guarantees governance. If we have not been able to guarantee the governability of this country it is the responsibility of politics and certainly not of the electoral law. Mr President, allow me one last sentence. When the Chernobyl disaster happened, I lived in Switzerland and I remember that the Greens made a t-shirt with the words: If you liked Chernobyl, don't miss Creys-Malville, which was a nuclear power plant near Geneva. With the climate we're rebuilding, I'd like to write on a T-shirt: If you liked it on December 4, don't miss out on the next policies. [[Applause from the M5S, Art.1-MDP and Misto-SI-SEL Groups. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-905.ana.u22	Senator Serra is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-905.ana.u23	Madam President, it is clear that your intention is to safeguard the system of power. A power system that cannot undergo any micro-swapping. You have chosen to rape Italian citizens for the umpteenth time through the creation of an anti-institutional electoral law, imposing silence and denigrating those who dare to displease the merit and propose modifications in respect of our Constitution. You want the numbers to govern, but you'll have the chaos, because this electoral law, generating fake choices, where the voter's vote is completely ignored, is a scam. An electoral law cannot be imposed by a vote of confidence on an unelected government, created and set up for choices of power and caste. You are terrified of the citizens. You are terrified that sovereign citizens can choose their representatives in Parliament. You have lost the light of reason by writing a law that has in itself many inconsistencies. Do you think that an electoral law that rips off the vote on citizens can still assure you of a long life of power? Are you convinced that citizens are the worst evil of this nation, offended and reproached in the territory, in the coasts, in the rivers and in the seas? Well, you're wrong. Citizens know and will know how to choose. [[Applause from the M5S Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-905.ana.u24	Senator Marton is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-905.ana.u25	Madam President, I would like to begin by quoting my colleague, Mr Collina, who said yesterday that the electoral law aims to transfer the vote of 47 million Italians to seats and, as a second objective, to ensure governance and representativeness. This law does not, Senator Collina, I give you this news. I also wanted to mention Senator Zeller, who yesterday made a speech which, in my opinion, can only be called shameful. Too bad not to see him today in this House, because I would like to ask him what is democratic or what is protecting the minority to guarantee seven seats with a million inhabitants, while Liguria has only eight with 1,600,000. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] I wonder where all this democracy and all this protection are. In my opinion, Senator Zeller confuses the term "guard" with the term "privilege." If you go to see the composition of the Group For the Autonomies, at the moment it has 18 senators; do you know how many women are represented in this Group at the moment? Two. The Autonomous Group has two women out of 18 senators. Consider that this law should guarantee - I quote Senator Gatti - a gender representation from 60 to 40%. I wonder what the plan of the government and the electoral law we are examining is to ensure that the Südtiroler Volkspartei (SVP) still has seven seats guaranteed and no woman represented, in contempt of the same electoral law! [[Applause from the M5S Group]] Do you know why the electoral law that was being discussed earlier - the so-called German model - did not go to the Chamber of Deputies? Simply because the 5 Star Movement and Forza Italia have asked that the electoral law be the same throughout Italy. I ask you what is undemocratic and what is hindering the blowing of an electoral law, calling for equality in all regions. Senator Zeller speaks in vain, exclusively to grab, as he has done in recent years, in all the majorities he has participated in. He doesn't respond to the nation, but only responds to himself and that's it. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] The real objective of the electoral law in our examination, as the rapporteur, Senator Torrisi, explained yesterday, is to secure the system and the institutions. Well, we of the 5 Star Movement are the most anti-system in the country at this time, in the sense of the "system" that guarantees the lobbying, which protects and guarantees the power exclusively to specific groups of parties - PD and Forza Italia - and to the various lobbies. We are against this system and we are in favour of the institutions. Yes, we believe in institutions, so much so that we spent on institutional reform to save the Senate. We believe in it and we are certainly more institutional than all those in here, because, ladies and gentlemen, you are bringing down the institutions by adopting such a law. Mr President, allow me to make a final comment. I absolutely do not accept lessons from those who profess to be "professor" and feel that they have been part of a party that did not represent him. I believe that a person who has reason to be "ex" and not as a person should not be given a single answer. [[Applause from Senator Paglini]] If he studied, if he had studied the electoral law, he would understand that 51% does not guarantee governability: this person should also study. [[Applause from the M5S Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-905.ana.u26	He's enlisted to speak Senator Lucidi. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-905.ana.u27	Madam President, we are still here. Members of the Government and "colleges" of the Democratic Party, you have done one thing that we have disputed a great deal, namely to put five issues of trust on the third electoral law of this legislature. You're essentially preventing us from talking. We will not be able to discuss trust and then, in such situations, the citizen has to make up his mind. Don't you let us talk about the five trust issues? Then I'll give you five speeches. First trust. Shame, because you're drunk with Rosatellum, a watered-down electoral law that we don't want to drink! We are still here to tell you the same words that we have used before, because you are once again and blatantly profaning the democratic institutions of this country. A referendum rejected by 60% of Italians was not enough, because we are here today to discuss the third electoral law of this legislature. You of the Democratic Party, your Government and all those who support it know how to make only two types of laws: those unconstitutional and those that serve yourself. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] Unfortunately for Italians, this scam law, the Rosatellum, does both. Second confidence. Shame on you because you're drunk with Rosatellum, a watered-down electoral law that we don't want to drink! We are still here to tell you the same words that we have used before because you are once again and blatantly profaning the democratic institutions of this country. A referendum rejected by 60% of Italians was not enough because we are in this House today to discuss the third electoral law of this legislature. You of the Government, of the Democratic Party and all those who support it know how to make only two types of laws: those unconstitutional and those that serve yourself and, unfortunately for the Italians, this law scam, the Rosatellum, does both. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] Third trust. Shame on you because you are drunk with Rosatellum, a watered-down electoral law that we of the 5 Star Movement and citizens do not want to drink! We are still here to tell you the same words that we have used before because you are once again and blatantly profaning the democratic institutions of this country. A referendum rejected by 60% of Italians was not enough, because today we are in this House debating the third electoral law of this legislature. You of the Democratic Party, your Government and all those who support it know how to make only two types of laws: those unconstitutional and those that serve yourself and, unfortunately for the Italians, this law does both. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] Fourth trust. Shame on you because you're drunk with Rosatellum, a watered-down electoral law that we don't want to drink! [[Applause from the M5S Group]] We are still here to tell you the same words that we have already used many other times because you are once again and blatantly profaning the democratic institutions of this country. There was not enough a referendum rejected by 60% of Italians [[Applause from the M5S Group]] because today we are in this House brazenly debating the third electoral law. You in the Democratic Party only know how to make two kinds of laws: the unconstitutional ones and the ones you need, and the Rosatellum does both! [[Applause from the M5S Group]] Fifth trust. Shame on you because you're drunk with Rosatellum, a watered-down electoral law that we don't want to drink! [[Applause from the M5S Group]] We are still here to tell you the same words that we have used before because you are once again and blatantly profaning the democratic institutions of this country. It was not enough for you to have a referendum, with which 60% of Italians rejected you, because we are still in this House discussing the third electoral law of this legislature. I tell you then, for the fifth time: you of the Democratic Party are able to make only two types of laws: those unconstitutional and those that serve yourself and the Rosatellum, this electoral law scam, unfortunately for the Italians, does both! Shame! [[Applause from the M5S Group. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-905.ana.u28	PRESIDENT. - The next item is the report (Doc. He is registered to speak Senator Barozzino. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-905.ana.u29	Mr President, before we move on to the substance, I would like to talk a little bit about the method that has been adopted in these classrooms. Let's not pretend we don't understand it, because this will inevitably be the mirror of the country. In these classrooms we went from an attitude of the kind: "Speak as well; no one will listen to you or consider another of the type: "You can't speak anymore, because you may have noticed that someone can listen to you and make their comments and be informed." It is known that information at this time, for the majority and for this Government, is not something to be taken into account, because it can become dangerous. Mr President, at this point I would like to make a point of order - and I am serious about this - because we should not call it Parliament, but rather be quiet or, as you like, Zittarellum or something like that. Look, in the light of what I have said, I think what is happening is truly dramatic, not so much for us, but in view of how much will inevitably affect the country. Here we should talk about an electoral law, which is the mirror and emblem of democracy and the freedom of a country: thanks to it, in fact, the people - that is, the people in the flesh - should go to vote and, in the utmost democracy and transparency, decide who to be represented by; unfortunately, once again, it will not be so, but I am not even surprised anymore. I read a little while ago about the 'zitment', which is no longer Parliament: almost 80% of the questions we are proposing - which is also a reflection of the country and democracy - are not really taken into account. So, just to reflect (since I always like to confront people in the flesh), if these things happen in the Italian Parliament, I imagine what can happen in the real country, starting from the workplace: people will no longer be free to say anything, if all this happens in Parliament. I would also like to make a small reference to memory: a long time ago I witnessed an initiative to which the ANPI was present, in which there was talk of democracy and freedom. At some point a partisan spoke about the importance of memory for our country and the difference between memory and memories. Memories, as he said, could also be personal, but memory is collective. We in Italy of memory should really have (forgive me the game of words) an important memory, from this point of view. Now, however, we come to the merits and move on to what Rosatellum provides and especially to those who are the friends who accept it (practically the "friends of opportunity" as I call them). Until a year ago there were many people talking about democracy and respect for the rules; now, once again, the question of trust has been raised, so we can no longer even talk about electoral law. But someone pretends to have forgotten what happened a year ago and takes everything as good (but I'm used to these things now). We are talking practically about blocked lists and owl lists, for which 70% of the Members of Parliament will be voted by the party owners (because now they must be called, no longer party secretaries) and therefore, once again, our Constitutional Charter is trampled on, as if nothing had happened on December 4 (just to represent that at worst there is never an end). Sometimes I get really horrified at it. I have done a research of the laws that in recent years have produced these who propose the Rosatellum, because looking at past history is really important, always about what I said about memory: in recent years laws have been proposed such as the Porcellum (unconstitutional); the Fornero reform (a disaster); the jobs act (the main theme of which is practically the abolition of dignity, democracy and freedom in the workplace). Since now there is this alliance, I remember that the abolition of Article 18 also attempted it Berlusconi, if I am not mistaken in 2003, and there was a huge demonstration - perhaps one of the greatest - of the Italian people, who rejected that disaster, which was then brought back to the surface by Renzi with the PD. Then there was the good school (deportation of families) and the Italicum (unconstitutional): here too, there was an attempt on December 4 to tear our Constitutional Charter, by the Rosatellum themselves. I would like to make a comparison: again, in the early 2000s, Berlusconi tried practically the same plan to tear down our Constitutional Charter. The Italian people, however, rejected both attempts. We are still talking about unlocking Italy, so practically wild drills: just come to Basilicata to understand what happened on this front too. In all this panorama, as if nothing had happened in the last twelve to thirteen years, practically the same characters, the same actors - if they can be called - re-propose the Rosatellum, as if all that happened was a way of saying: "Go and be blessed, because we don't give a damn about referendums." Also of this I am not at all surprised, because the icing on everything and the emblem of these characters were the so-called vouchers, which someone should remember. Realizing that the people could rebel with the only tool available, i.e. the pencil, going to vote (in a democratic country should be normal), what did these characters who now reproposing the Rosatellum think? They said they would cancel them, because they were afraid of the people, freedom and democracy. They basically said, "Let's get rid of this thing, don't worry, we understand the lesson." It is a pity that after a few weeks, once the referendum was averted, the vouchers were re-proposed - perhaps in even worse form. I really want to make a reflection and, Mr President, I address you and your sensitivity because these issues must also be brought to the attention of the President of the Senate. If in these classrooms, beyond the thoughts (which is right that they are different, because this is synonymous with democracy and respect), you do not give answers, that they may like or not like (the discussion may be pleasing or not pleasing, but this is democracy), if you do not allow senators to speak about electoral law, this should be a problem for all senators, because this is called democracy. If you do not answer Parliament's questions virtually never, this is a problem for the whole Senate, for all the senators and for all the parliamentarians. This is the mirror of the country. I took a first step and I invite everyone to think about what we are, indeed, what you are producing in this country: disaster. In fact, if a Member of Parliament, for whom there should be extra protection, an extra opportunity to speak, is treated in this way, do you want to make a reflection or not on what is going on in our country? Are we gonna do this or not? Otherwise it is really - as I like to say - all fried air, it really means coming here to spend the time and I think that we cannot afford this; certainly cannot afford it who really loves the democracy of this country. This is the further reflection that I think we must all make, otherwise we really must accept my point of order: we must no longer call it Parliament, but "nothing" because it is the right word, Mr President. [[Applause from the Misso-SI-SEL Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-905.ana.u30	Senator Lezzi is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-905.ana.u31	Mr President, the 5 Star Movement is rather stoic in continuing to talk about this measure, because it is useless: basically everything has already been decided; Matteo Renzi, Silvio Berlusconi and Verdini decided how to try to protect themselves and be able to come back here. We continue to talk and it seems to give you a justification: would this be a democratic debate according to the Democratic Party? The sterile debate, like: "Yes, let them speak, let them say, so much then we do. It is the same thing that has been done with constitutional reform. Then, out of here, there was the sentence from the citizens, who wanted them losers. Now, contrary to my colleagues, I am speaking to say that I do not feel discouraged at all, because I trust the citizens, those citizens they will remember. They will remember that the Democratic Party has given several billion euros to the banks, without providing for the assets of the last. They will remember that work has been racked up, that compared with more than 20 billion spent, we have now returned to precarious work, with a billion of monte hours worked less and so we are all still poorer again, even if we are bulging that there would be this million more jobs. They will remember the good school, with the teachers "deported" and an old didactic; they will remember all the promises made to small and medium-sized enterprises. Now the Democratic Party is talking about the environment, but they will remember that now there is a city in Puglia where you have to stay with the windows closed, not for cars, but for a big enterprise for which the Democratic Party has issued several decree-laws so that it could remain active, continuing to pollute and kill, so much so that Matteuccio's train from Taranto cannot pass. They will remember all this, the Italians, and out of here, other than Rosatellum: I am sure they will give you a good blow and finally they will send you home. For us it is of little importance who will come back here, if it will be Barbara Lezzi, if it will be Sara Paglini, if it will be Manuela Serra or Vincenzo Santangelo: the important thing is that the 5 Star Movement returns here more and more. One thing is certain: by going to vote on the revolts that will be formed, the citizen will not know who will send here to represent him; With this series of slips they will go a little down and a little up, the majority will decide for everyone and you will not know precisely what the list will be that will take the most votes and that will have more representatives. Even the League will have to give some votes of Veneto perhaps to Sicily, because something really diabolical has been created. What is certain is that those who vote for the 5 Star Movement will send here a representative of the 5 Star Movement and will be represented by the 5 Star Movement. That alone is certain. This will be the only, great, powerful useful vote that can be given with this horrible electoral law, which will then be rejected again. But you're used to failures. The Democratic Party together with Forza Italia in the last twenty years has always increased taxes, even Berlusconi together with the League and this must be remembered. When I arrived here in the Senate, I went to look at all the budget documents and you always increased your expenses and taxes. You have always done your own good and not that of the citizens: the citizens know that and that is what interests me. You only have a few more months to make gifts to the banks, to some lobby, to try to justify what you're up against. For the rest, it will be a future of the 5 Star Movement, in which the citizen will finally be master at his home and democracy will be restored. [[Applause from the M5S Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-905.ana.u32	Senator Santangelo is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-905.ana.u33	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, when you listen to us from outside, I asked myself a few minutes ago whether or not to make this speech, because its effectiveness within Parliament is almost nothing, we have now understood it: we cannot discuss it in this Parliament, we cannot go into the substance of the issues. We have been blocked in the Commission, we have been unable to make any changes. Times in this House have been contingencyd, which means that the so-called guillotine has been put in place, i.e. the possibility of affecting it, at a time when we can discuss and possibly amend or even reject the amending proposals. What is being done today is a farce, because it is a debate on trust; indeed, Mr President, it is a quintuple trust, because you have surpassed yourselves in the exercise of trust; on the contrary, I would say a decade, because after having placed five in the House, you have put five more in the Senate. The President points out to me that only three have been placed in the House, but little changes. The factor remains the same: the impossibility of really making your contribution. One thing is certain, given that the system that has been adopted here in Parliament sometimes does not even make it possible to correct mistakes: the text that has been voted on in the House is not the same as the text that will be voted on here in the Senate. This is an objective fact. This system does not allow to modify an error made to the House, because the Senate for regulatory matters cannot intervene on what was done to the House. What are you doing then? You think institutional referees, those figures that should be above the parties, intervene to try to remedy this error. Those referees who are the President of the Boldrini Chamber, the President of the Fat Senate and the President of the Mattarella Republic do not intervene. In fact, they're quiet there and they're carrying out this law. I then asked myself: who needs this law? Does it serve citizens outside, serves to bring back to the polls those citizens who no longer vote (remember that it is 50% of Italians)? Is it a law that serves this or anything else? It is clear that a law that does not allow the elector to write a name and to choose its representative, a law where the voter is magically transported from one region to another, to go to satisfy who knows what electoral alliance made in another region, is not a democratic law and is not acceptable! How can you then accept that? I meet you daily and I realize, speaking with you, that you are not happy either, because probably, in this mechanism that you have created, or that someone has created for you, you know of the filth and filth that you are doing. This reality must be absolutely shown out of here. We need a democratic popular reaction - and I stress democratic - through which citizens make you understand this and let you get to yourself, that you have wronged this work, all their positive and negative energy. A Parliament that gives birth to one, two or three unconstitutional laws is not a Parliament worthy of this name. Senators and Members of this Parliament are not worthy to be called honourable Members. This is a Senate where if you have a tie, if you don't have a tie - I won't take it off otherwise the President blocks me - don't come in. If I take off my tie right now, they'll lock me up! (Senator Santangelo loosens the tie knot.) But if there is an unconstitutional law - and we all know it is unconstitutional - there is no democratic way of discussing it! [[Applause from the M5S Group]] This place is the opposite of everything. We tried to put this matter to your attention and yesterday I also held onto one of the government benches. They put their hands on me, because this can't be done. If I sit or cling to that chair there that means nothing (for us citizens means less than zero an armchair), then everyone hastens to tell me to get away because it is not allowed. I did so with all the strength I had and I will continue to do so until the last moment I am inside the institutions, but also outside the institutions, because the modus operandi of this Parliament is not healthy. It is not healthy for you, but especially for the Italians. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] Don't go back a millimetre and we'll be waiting for you outside this afternoon in the square, because being in here is absolutely useless. [[Applause from the M5S Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-905.ana.u34	Senator Santangelo, straighten your tie knot.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-905.ana.u35	Senator Pegorer is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-905.ana.u36	Mr President, the government's choice to put five votes of confidence in the electoral law is an unacceptable force, outside of all institutional correctness, which effectively prevents a detailed, serious and in-depth debate by this House on a rule that underpins the functioning of our institutions. Violence in Parliament, at the same time, is a sign of protection and arrogance, but also of the weakness of those who are incapable of having a proper debate can do nothing but use the weapons of prevarication. It is also clear that the choice to raise the issue of trust is directed not only at the parliamentary groups that are fighting this profoundly wrong electoral reform, but even more to silence the voices of dissent present in the same majority and, in particular, in the Democratic Party. With this choice, moreover, the Government has failed to fulfil the commitment made by the President of the Council at the time of its establishment, i.e. not to interfere in the parliamentary debate on the new electoral law. President Gentiloni Silveri is the first President of the Council to put his trust in this issue in both Chambers; a sad primacy and an invasion of the government in a parliamentary matter that would not be conceivable in any great democracy, even a few months after the new elections. This is an extremely serious act which will have a major impact on relations between the political forces and on the process of future action. In fact, this reform does not aim to give the country an adequate electoral law that guarantees a majority of government, favours aggregations and gives citizens the choice of parliamentarians. The aim, instead, is to defend some political forces, in particular the Democratic Party and Forza Italia, and to safeguard their parliamentary presence, in a sort of castle of the system that would mark, once again, the distance from the real country, from its anxieties and concerns. It is, therefore, an all-political operation to defend the existing one. The measure under discussion was therefore born in the parliamentary classrooms, after being born in the back shop of politics, the Renzi government, Verdini and Berlusconi. This electoral law is made precisely to try to ensure this indigestible piled up in the next legislature. Going down into the detail of the reform, as several colleagues in my Group have already done, it shows limits and inconsistencies that make it a bad electoral law, unable to respond to the needs of representativeness and governance that have long become more indispensable than ever for the functioning of our political and institutional system. With regard to the majority, which will elect a third of future parliamentarians, it allows the formation of extemporaneous appearances and crowds in different colleges: instead of having a coherent coalition of political forces, linked by a common electoral programme, a single symbol, we will face the most varied alliances, often contradictory and linked only by the interests of small and large systems of local notables. It is, therefore, a real institutional and political regression, good to represent the local potentates and certainly not to strengthen the necessary relationship between the elected, the territory and the citizens. As is well known, the largest number of elected will come from the proportional part. However, they will be determined in fact by majority voting by a questionable mechanism. On the other hand, the voter will not be free to choose the vote in the proportional part: there is no possibility of choosing a candidate in the majority part and a list in the proportional part that are not related, as is the case in the German electoral system, often referred to as inappropriate - I insist on the point - by those who defend this system. In this way, therefore, the choice of the voter is limited, forcing it in fact to a single option for both the majority and the proportional part. With the use of blocked lists, people are once again prevented from choosing a Member of Parliament. This is accompanied by the possible use of multiple candidatures which, in a political system made increasingly by political forces subjected to a system afflicted by leaderism, results in the fact that the leaders of the parties will have absolute control over those who will be elected, determining them even before they go to the polls. All this will mark a further detachment - I address above all to the colleagues of the Democratic Party on this point - between the country and the political system, exacerbating the already heavy and profound distrust in the institutions, present in a large part of public opinion. Still on the proportional side, it deserves attention the furbesco trick invented with the system of electoral barriers. The 3% barrier is accompanied by the introduction of an additional 1% threshold. In fact, it is expected that the lists which do not reach 3%, but with a result of more than one, will in any case contribute to the determination of the electoral figure of the allied forces. On this and other points our Group Article 1 - Democratic and progressive movement has presented constitutional prejudices and certainly the Constitutional Court will have the opportunity to assess the consistency of the legislation with our constitutional system. In any case, it is a clever one which, among other things, frustrates the introduction of the barrier threshold as a deterrent to the fragmentation of parliamentary representation. A final point, Mr President, deserves our attention: the introduction into the law of the list leader's indication. Apart from the fact that it prolongs the misunderstanding with the public that there is, in some way, the direct election of the Premier, which is entirely outside of our constitutional dictation, we find ourselves in this case, as already pointed out by other colleagues, in the grotesque situation in which a citizen would vote for a coalition formed by different leaders and with different electoral programs. Mr President, it is therefore quite clear that this law has in itself different and contradictory aspects, which do not in any way make it that electoral law necessary for the proper functioning of our system. Instead, as said, it represents the tired gimmick of some political forces to maintain their positions and to close with respect to the needs of Italian society. A law, moreover, that closes the door to the prospect of having coherent and solid electoral coalitions and that represents, on the part of the Democratic Party and its leader, a clear field choice: to break with the left and its electorate. In this way we give up the prospect of rebuilding a centre-left which has at heart the fate of our democracy and the needs of our citizens. Who today, with stubborn obtuseness, has walked the path of a wrong and harmful choice will have the responsibility of a break between the forces of progress at the next electoral rounds, both in the national one, as probably in those that will take place in different regions. In conclusion, it is a choice of self-defense of a piece of the political system, devoid of the breath and vision necessary in this historical phase. A device that aims to close in curl the existing political-institutional system, while at the same time trying to eliminate all dissenting voices and which has as its sole objective to weld and guarantee the consociative pact between the Democratic Party, led by renziana, and Forza Italia, between Renzi and Berlusconi, with the logistic coverage of Verdini, built in this legislature and that wants to continue in the next. A short-sighted and harmful choice that, I am sure, will be the voters who will punish with their vote. [[Applause from the groups Art.1-MDP and Misto-SI-SEL.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-905.ana.u37	He is enlisted to speak Senator Jacob. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-905.ana.u38	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to add a few comments to what other colleagues in the foreign constituency have said in their speeches. If we consider this bill beyond party logic, in my opinion it is a step in the right direction. I am a strong supporter of the importance of territorial parliamentary representation and the electoral law that we are going to vote on introduces single-name colleges and short lists. We cannot deny that this is a step forward from the past. I think, however, that it would have been good to go further, including the requirement for candidates to reside in the districts in which they appear. Citizens would have been guaranteed to elect people who live in their communities, who know the territory and who can therefore be the best interpreters of their needs. Unfortunately, few of the previous speeches have touched on this aspect of the law. Instead, I notice contradictions within the law. One of these is the fact that the foreign constituency was the only reality of direct representation of candidates linked to the territory. Unfortunately, because of the provisions of Article 6, it will no longer be. I am not convinced of the justification for the rule that allows residents in Italy to apply in the foreign constituency. I dare say there is no logical justification. On the one hand, a step forward, with the uninomial colleges in Italy, and on the other, two behind, allowing those who reside in Italy to apply to represent the Italians in the world. That seems to me to be a great contradiction. There is another contradiction, Mr President, also in Article 6, where it is provided that Italian citizens who have held elective positions in a foreign State over the last five years are not eligible for candidacy, but for members of the AIRE and their country of residence. Again, I can't understand the logic. What is the difference between an Italian citizen who is elected to a municipal council in Italy and an Italian citizen who is elected to a municipal council abroad? If we believe in the values of politics, in both cases they are Italian citizens who have made available their time, their commitment, their people, for the communities in which they live. I don't understand how they can be treated differently depending on where they live. This will be another contradiction that will be introduced by the new law. We had tabled an amendment to remove these contradictions. Unfortunately, the use of a vote of confidence prevents us from deepening its reasons and calling on the House to consider them. I believe in the current Government, I have always supported it and I will continue to support it, even with today's votes of confidence that will give Italy a new electoral law, necessary for the country. However, I could not fail to express my disappointment at the new rules that, if we had the opportunity to deepen the examination of the measure, we could avoid; rather, let me say that we missed an excellent opportunity to seriously discuss the parliamentary representation of Italians in the world and their contribution to the development and future of our country. In conclusion, Mr President, we will have a new electoral law which, although it is not the best solution, introduces uniform rules for the Chamber and Senate, single-name colleges and reduced lists, but also removes the only true territorial parliamentary representation, allowing Italian residents to apply abroad and contradicts the spirit of constitutional reform that allowed the representation in parliament of over 4,000,000 Italians in the world. Believe me, as Senator Micheloni said before, it will not be those who live abroad who lose but it will be Italy that perhaps, even because of us, has still not been able to enhance the role and potential of the elected MP abroad and the great resource represented by the tens of millions of people of Italian origin who live in the world. [[Applause from Senators Longo Fausto Guilherme and Mussini]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-905.ana.u39	She's registered to speak Senator Bottici. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-905.ana.u40	Mr President, we in the 5 Star Movement, in recent years, have felt accused of being anti-politics and anti-system, accusations that we reject to the sender. The real anti-political and the real anti-democratic system is you, you of the majority and I am sorry for President Grasso, but he has also made himself an accomplice to this anti-democratic system. After the referendum on 4 December, the Italian people expected awareness from those parliamentarians who had voted for a reform of the Constitution rejected by the citizens. Nothing at all. As I told you one day, you lowered your head to the boss. You're used to choosing, if you like, the least worst. I hope you didn't do that even when you got married. We want the best for this country, we want honest and free parliamentarians. You're lying to the citizens. The PD will present itself in coalition with the various Idv, Mastella and others to pick up some extra votes, and then merge into the preferred coalition: PD-Forza Italia with side by side by Verdini and Salvini. How can you not be ashamed? I thought that there were healthy people in this House - of some I also thought - and I have to believe in them. In these days I have been to Sicily, I have spoken with the Sicilians and I realized that the Mafia are not in Sicily but here and on the five November we have the possibility to give a sign to the Country, starting from Sicily, to express a conscious vote and send home that coalition of parties, that bunch of parliamentarians, who are currently eating the country and this national law does nothing but reconfirm that bunch of parliamentarians who really should go home. Sooner or later, in fact, as I have already told you, the country will ask you for the bill and I hope it is a very heavy bill to pay. [[Applause from the M5S Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-905.ana.u41	Senator Crimi is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-905.ana.u42	Mr President, I would like to address the few, very few, left in this House for this 'Zittamento', rather than Parliament, to quote my colleague. I appeal, in particular, to those who listen to us from home to remember some points. Who yelled in the squares that the Porcellum was an unconstitutional crap? We, the Five Star Movement, from that famous V-day. The ignorant constitutionals, the constitutional barbarians, the incompetents. But the Constitutional Court has proved us right. Who told you that constitutional reform would not have the consent of the people? We, always incompetent. And who told you that Italicum was unconstitutional? Do you remember or did you remove it? Always us, the ones you call incompetent. We told you italicum was unconstitutional. Who told you that you had to make an electoral law for the Senate, too? Do we want to remember who is responsible for making an electoral law only for a House? We told you then. We told you to make a law that was also for the Senate because, at least, when the Constitutional Court rejects it we will have two uniform laws. Even there, we told you, but you've gone on unforgivable. And once again we were right. Who's telling you today that you're making an electoral law scam, an unconstitutional electoral law? Always us, always the incompetent, who continue to repeat the same things and in the end are right. Instead, the professors on the Democratic Party payroll support the goodness of everything that was launched by the Democratic Party. Then, however, the supposed incompetents, in the end, are always right: and even this time they will be right. You have passed two electoral laws, the last two electoral, unconstitutional laws. Two wrong electoral laws. But there isn't two without three, and you, unceasingly, continue to do the third electoral law to be thrown into the toilet! [[Applause from the M5S Group]] You're relapsed! But relapses aren't paroled, they don't get suspended. Relapse goes straight to jail. You, on the other hand, are repeating the same mistake: you are guilty of scam aggravated against citizens, aggravated by relapse! [[Applause from the M5S Group]] It's as if, having caught the thief stealing twice, he was asked to implement a security system against the next thieves. This is the comparison that can be used. I will not dwell on the reasons for unconstitutionality, because on that the Constitutional Court will write pages on pages. I'm just going to give you a practical example. I don't want to quote PD but Forza Italia, just to change once in a while. Suppose Forza Italia takes 15 percent of the votes and joins the lists of the train party, the vitality party and the armchair party, each of which takes 2.5 percent. The coalition total will be 22.5 percent. You know what's gonna happen? This coalition will take 22.5 percent of the seats. But who gets those seats? Since the three departures, the train, the vitality and the armchair, will not take seats, because they do not access their distribution; 22.5 percent of the seats will go to Forza Italia, which took only 15 percent. Is there something wrong with this mechanism or am I the only one who has some difficulty understanding what mathematical logic is? [[Recalls of the President]] Allow me, Mr President, to continue, since there will not even be an explanation of vote on confidence. I know, however, that there are illustrious precedents: the Fornero law and the law on legitimate impediment, used as precedents; and this says a lot about the value of this law. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] I repeat that you are guilty of felony fraud aggravated by the relapse against Italian citizens. But the Italians are smarter and they won't fall for it, also because there will be someone who will report this. As we did in Sicily, with Giancarlo Cancelleri, who published the list of companies in both lists, center-right and center-left. Well, after a few days, they arrested the first name on the list we published. That's what's gonna happen. I will conclude by addressing the Democratic Party. From the information spread in these hours it is clear that Renzi is liquidating the Democratic Party; it is dismembering it, as a company vendor, to deliver it to its future buyers, the Chinese of Forza Italia. That's what he's doing and you're helping him. Think about it when the Democratic Party is in the hands of Berlusconi and Verdini! [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-905.ana.u43	On behalf of the Assembly, I greet the teachers and students of the State Technical Institute Vincenzo Arangio Ruizí in Rome, who are attending our work. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-905.ana.u44	He's enlisted to speak Senator Martelli. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-905.ana.u45	Mr President, I am conscious of the fact that I am participating in a huge fondle - I have said, but I would have liked to say something else - in the sense that I no longer see democracy. This democracy, which you have done so in Italy, reminds me so much of the shirt of the movie "Totò," Peppino and the outlaws": you could see only the pieces of the shirt that came out of the jacket; the rest was missing everything. What did you do? You left the palace envelope and took away everything: furniture, floors, toilet mug, bidet. You've taken it all away, but you still call it democracy. Let's see some examples at once. In a parliamentary republic the legislative product should come out of the union of the will of the people in here. It's not like that. The majority always prevails, and it prevails to the point that the Presidency consistently agrees with the majority, so in 100% of cases, whatever the issue of contending. It is statistically and probabilistically impossible for this to happen, but that is the case. Why this? Because the Presidency turns to the left, in the hole of the suggestor, and from the hole of the suggestor always comes the right indication to say that what is claimed by the opposition is wrong, even when it is counterproductive, as happened yesterday. In which case, I see the Presidency saying no, like a capricious child, because it has now decided so and so it is. You call this democracy? No. The word democracy at this time has become an insult in here, like the question of trust that has once again been placed. It is perfectly legitimate: Law No. 400 of 1988 regulates the way you can put it, and you actually put it. Is the procedure normal? Yes, you have also respected Article 72 of the Constitution, which says that the law must go first to the Commission and then to the Assembly; it says nothing else. But this is all form. And where did the substance end up? The substance's gone, the smoke's left, and you've made the roast disappear. I come to the merits of this draft electoral law, focusing on a number of key points. You see, ladies and gentlemen, what deeply annoys me - apart from the fact that I now also hate the word trust - is the way you have taken the only sentence that has deepened the electoral matter, namely No 1 of 2014 of the Constitutional Court, and you have tried to mimic it in order to remove all the presuppositions of non-constitutionalism. The above judgment of 2014 said quite interesting things: for example, that the electoral law that belongs to the ordinary legislator was to be the daughter of the time, and that is, if the requirements change within a nation, the electoral laws must be sufficiently flexible. Therefore, even if an agenda for the constituent assembly said that the best system was proportional (and I believe that it is the best, because it is the only reasonable one), if they change the requirements, something different can also be done for the Constitutional Court, without prejudice to some minimum safeguards: for example, the will of the elector cannot be squeezed. This is repeated in seven points of the judgment: one must not compress, limit or alter the will of the elector, enshrined in the first part of the Constitution. That is why the majority prize was rejected. Compressing the voter's freedom also means that his vote does not go to the target he wants to hit. What's the problem? It is in the fact that when a voter has the two ballots and then the tube of the vasellina will also be found in the urn - because this measure has the union - he will no longer know exactly what he is voting for; worse still, he will find himself voting on something with nose. Let's assume that Forza Italia and the League decide to make this match and that a League voter doesn't stand the single-name candidate of Forza Italia because, for example, the League wants to get out of the euro, while Forza Italia wants to do the opposite. When he voted and put an x on the League, his vote would inevitably go to Forza Italia and therefore the voter could not choose freely. Consequently, either he renounces his right to vote, because he says that he does not like these conditions, or accepts something that does not belong to his will. These are perhaps the worst trick and the worst scam you could do to the Italians; it is the maximum compression of the right to vote. You force someone to self-limit themselves or even to give up or vote for what he does not like, because that is the dish you have prepared for him. I believe that the Constitutional Court will speak on this point. Finally, the Court stated that the problem in the old electoral law was too long lists, there were about twenty names and, therefore, it was no longer possible to know who was voting for. You then, brilliantly, thought of reducing the list by putting three people, since a previous ruling on the elections for the administration below 5,000 inhabitants, established that the problem would be solved with the short list. But you didn't solve the problem, you just covered it with a few white hands, thinking no one noticed. It doesn't work that way, because in the end the spirit of the arrangement was given by the fact that there shouldn't be a prepacked list of people without a choice. Therefore, in the end, the Constitutional Court will inevitably punish these aspects. I wonder if you haven't thought about these things or if you don't give a damn and you're okay with it anyway. In one case as in the other, the voter will eventually give you an answer and we are waiting for it. [[Applause from the M5S Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-905.ana.u46	He's enlisted to speak Senator Cociancich. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-905.ana.u47	Mr President, first of all I would like to apologise to the audience who listens to us from home and from the forums for the vulgarity they have had to suffer and listen to, for which some Members have been responsible. CRIMI (M5S). Yes, trust is a vulgar word. COCIANCICH (PD). I would like to say that Parliament is not this vulgarity, but also commitment and love for politics and for the country. [[Comments from the M5S Group.]] I believe they are continuing to demonstrate how they mean dialogue and confrontation. MARTON (M5S). We're setting you right. AIROLA (M5S). Come to the credit. COCIANCICH (PD). With your permission, Mr President, I would like to speak on the debate on the electoral law in our examination, which is unfortunately characterised by a certain level of infancy and a certain rate of hypocrisy. [[Senator D'Anna's comments.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-905.ana.u48	Senator D'Anna, please.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-905.ana.u49	COCIANCICH (PD). I would point out that I am among those who are preparing to vote on this law a bit obtorto neck, certainly not because I am convinced that it is the right medicine for our country, torn by partisan interests and burdened by public debt, which is the consequence, but because knowing that the alternative, leaving the Consultellum, would be much worse. The purpose of the law would be to make the electoral systems and results between the House and the Senate homogeneous. In theory this should help governability, since the Executive is no longer forced to chase two different majorities in the two chambers. In fact, this statement appears difficult to achieve, at least because the audience of the active electorate is different, with five and a half million fewer voters in the Senate; young people aged between 18 and 25 years. It seems difficult to make these two different audiences homogeneous. It is therefore a chimera, but the hypocritical aspect is manifested in the positions of those who today criticize the Rosatellum because it would not guarantee governance and, less than a year ago, contested the constitutional reform that, by differing the functions of Chamber and Senate, instead facilitated it. The truth is that for a part of the opposition, especially for its numerous and super fragmented radical lefts, the Senate's task should not be to give confidence and contribute to the government of the country, but to control it, condition it and, if necessary, hinder it. A legitimate vision, for goodness sake, but that reveals a political culture that has long abdicated to be a force of transformation of the country and has resigned to be a nostalgic memory of a failed revolution in Italy, of which we celebrated yesterday the centenary with the beautiful speech of Senator Tronti. A political culture that in today's epigons appears today rancorous and minority, obsessed, psychotic and self-hypnotized by hatred towards the Secretary of the Democratic Party. The members of the 5 Star Movement are also self-hypnotized. There is another element of fiction and manipulation of reality that must be denounced, that according to which the Rosatellum would be a law aimed at introducing an authoritarian and anti-democratic regime; statement that, among other things, it punches with that on governability that I have just commented on. Of course, everyone in this debate is now entitled to say everything and the opposite of everything. I remember that the Rosatellum introduces a system for two thirds proportional and for a third majority. The Mattarellum had inverted proportions and no one had ever claimed: it was for two thirds majority and only for a third proportional. The same applies to the so-called Tedeschellum, the law that was under discussion in June, in the Chamber of Deputies, and that - in words, but not in the secret of voting - also the 5 Star Movement had approved. So here is the hypocrisy of those who evaluate from time to time the goodness of a system only according to their precise and personal electoral conveniences. Hypocrite is also the criticism of those who complain about the lack of a program at the base of the coalition, if we consider that those same political forces have made shipwreck, in the space of one morning, the coalition called Italy common good - reigning Bersani, secretary of the PD, and Nichi Vendola, president of Left ecology and freedom - and this certainly not for different interpretations of the common programmatic platform, but for a much less noble discord on the candidacy to Head of State, agreed between the same Bersani and Berlusconi. In conclusion, it is hypocritical to criticize those who complain about the alleged lack of popular legitimacy, despite the contrary statement contained in the same judgment n. 1 of 2014 of the Consulta sul Porcellum, which sometimes should be read even in full. Today, those who make this criticism do not object to the fact that the current law, if not passed the Senate Act 2941, of which we are discussing, would be the so-called Consultellum, a law written with the technique of additive judgments. What would be the greater popular legitimacy of the Constitutional Court to act as legislator, and more so in a matter that is as political as the electoral one? With the utmost respect for the Constitutional Court, our system of sources does not include it among those who have the power of legislative initiative and its judgments have been the subject, from this point of view, of many criticisms, also at international level, for the trespassing in a field reserved for Parliament. There is much hypocrisy in those who exulted at the end of Italicum, who would have given voters the choice of the majority of government, which would have been known on the very evening of the elections, and today complains that all governments and coalitions will, in all probability, be chosen by the parties in negotiations only after the vote. It is hypocritical to criticize those who believe that we should not intervene in electoral matters in the last few months of the parliamentary term. Of course, this is an abstract principle, but it is well known to all that not only the Head of State, but a very large part of the public, is calling for action to be taken to correct the irrational system provided for by the Consultellum, which in turn deserves the same criticism, for the fact that it was introduced in the last year of the legislature. The greatest hypocrisy, Mr President, is that of those who supported the imperative mandate and the clear vote until yesterday and today tries to hide the behaviour of Members in the darkness of more than 50 secret votes. Why must the citizens, the sovereign people, not know how representatives vote on a law as political as the electoral one? Here there is no question of conscience, there is only to decide what kind of country we want to build for the future and it is right that everyone does it loudly. Once the 5 Star Movement and its guru, Beppe Grillo, had made transparency their flag. Today we see that they were just empty talk, with no depth of conviction. So let the vow of trust come, which will lead each one of us to have to express himself with a loud voice and head with a yes or a no, without alibi, without hypocrisies and not even infigurations. [[Applause from the PD Group]] LUCIDES (M5S). Think of the whistles Renzi gets!
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-905.ana.u50	Senator Lucidi, please: everyone has the right to intervene and, with the necessary limits, to say what he wants. LUCIDES (M5S). Go for a ride on Renzi's train! PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator Lucidi, I'll call you back for the first time. This duet seems useless to me. Senator Orellana is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-905.ana.u51	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the laws are the daughters of their time. I am not just referring to the laws on civil rights, which we associate with their time, but to the laws of any other kind and therefore also to this electoral law. It is in time: it arrived late, close to next year's lessons. The Venice Commission, which has been mentioned on several occasions, calls on all the Member States of the Council of Europe to change the electoral law at least one year before the elections themselves and in this case this has not happened. It must be said, however, that an electoral law had been passed, namely the Italicum, and we have seen the results. It is in the way in which it will be approved, with a vote of confidence, for the tight deadlines due at the end of the parliamentary term. So let's ask ourselves if this is the best you could get, given the contour conditions. But what are the contour conditions? There was the referendum on December 4, with which the Italians told us clearly that they want equal bicameralism and therefore homogeneity between the electoral laws of the Chamber of Deputies and the Senate. Then there is the failure, however, of the June attempt, of the so-called Tedeschellum. At this point we should ask for the consistency of those who are so opposed today, but who signed this agreement in June, which then someone had not respected in a secret vote, as has been said. [[Applause from Senator D'Anna]] Let us ask ourselves, however, what this law proposes in a positive way. First of all, there are the coalitions, which are hoped to give governability - it is only a wish and there are no certainties - and, above all, the indication to the elector of which Government proposes every political force. It also promotes gender alternation. The current situation is defined by the so-called Consultellum. We know he's not in the Senate. Italicum has it. Even if only for a third, there are also the one-name colleges and many wanted them for a long time. Uninomial colleges will require parties to indicate the best possible candidate in each college and, in a sense, this will lead to a selection of the political class. A lot of media and citizens consider the one done by the parties in recent years to be of poor quality. There are less positive multi-name colleges, because they do not have preferences, but these short lists make it recognizable to voters who are voting and, finally, as I have already said, there is the homogeneity - as far as possible and given the difficulties, to which my colleague Cociancich mentioned earlier - of the electoral laws of the House and Senate. Finally, I would like to make a little comment on the issue of trampled democracy. I believe that democracy is happening in this debate and we will see it more when the senators present, representatives of the citizens, come under the Presidency to give their clear and free vote - we are without a mandate - in the light of the sun. Everyone can judge us. That is democracy and we will see it here. We could do some behindology, because it's easy to say that someone is playing with a vote their own regendatura, but I could also say that this applies to both sides, both for those who are favorable and for those who are against. Let's put aside these chords and look at the substance. [[Applause from the PD Group and the Senators Bencini and Longo Fausto Guilherme]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-905.ana.u52	She is registered to speak Senator Paglini. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-905.ana.u53	Mr President, thank you very much for giving me the opportunity to speak in this House, in the institutions. I am a normal and simple citizen who has this possibility. I would like to speak on behalf of those who are outside, referring to a very short sentence by Beccaria that wrote: There is no freedom whenever laws allow man to cease to be a person in some events and become a thing. I'm starting with this. This electoral law will make people things, because if a person cannot express his/her vote freely and is used to shift his/her will, according to the convenience of the majority party, he/she is no longer a free person: it is one thing. That is why I am particularly proud to be able to say that in this House. I would like to thank the citizens who are in the streets right now and are making them feel their will to be able to count and continue to be free citizens in a democratic state. I would like to thank my colleagues who for four and a half years have been fighting in these assemblies with such complex mechanisms, where a caste still preserves itself with acts of arrogance and arrogance. I have people in front of me who taught me good things. Senator Zavoli is always in the Chamber with his important presence and I wonder: for everyone, what do you think of this electoral law? What is the scream that comes from his heart? Are you really convinced that this electoral law is not a distortion of democracy? I ask you for an act of courage, as I am doing at this moment; the act of courage to be able to say truly freely what you think of this umpteenth imposition from above of four people who, outside these classrooms, have decided for you too. I will be able to say in my life that I have put it all, in full honesty, along with my fellow fighters who are here and out of these classrooms. I do not know whether many of you will be able to say the same thing or whether they will be able to tell their children that they have delivered a free country into the hands of those who come. I believe that an electoral law must be done not for convenience, but for the intellectual and moral honesty that should move every representative of the people, as the first characteristic of his mandate. Well, Mr President, with the greatest peace of mind I am capable of, I thank all those who will take note of this democratic abuse, will come to the next elections and will give their conscious vote to the only political force that continues with incessant energy to demand freedom and rights. We of the 5 Star Movement will continue on this path. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-905.ana.u54	He's enlisted to speak Senator Chiti. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-905.ana.u55	Mr President, with this speech I will simply explain why I will not vote on the electoral law in question and, therefore, I will not vote on the vote on trust or the final vote on the law. It is a distinction from the positions of my Group which weighs and weighs on me, but which I cannot avoid, because important aspects of the proposed electoral legislation conflict with my convictions; with what I have argued since 2005, when the so-called Porcellum was approved; with the battles that in vain in recent years with so many others I have taken forward and also because the question of trust was raised, as I will say later. I am not convinced of this law by the small proportion of my unnamed colleagues. Can't go any further? A first and broad understanding had been reached on 50 percent of single-member colleges and 50 percent of proportional. So, that wasn't far-fetched. Even less so, I am convinced of the single vote, which prevents the citizens of their representatives from making a full choice in Parliament. It was one of the reasons why I decided not to vote for Italicum either at the time. Today this deficit, which has already produced a huge distance between citizens and institutions, seems to me not only not solved, but somewhat aggravated. I am not convinced by the plurality of the thresholds for access to seats, all Italian vice: 3%, 10% for the coalitions, drawing up the votes of those in the coalitions who exceed one percent; an incentive to multiply the lists and to create electoral groups, not of government, as we have already seen. I am not convinced that the ambiguity of the indication of the head of political force is maintained, as if the Premier were to be elected: this is not the case and President Napolitano is right, who first raised this aspect. Finally, I am not convinced that you can be resident in Italy and candidates in foreign districts: resident in Fiesole, Castellammare di Stabia or Acireale and candidates in Canada, the United States or Australia. I have doubts about the constitutional correctness and certainly that of the representation of a vote which, if given only to the candidate in a single college, will then be redistributed also to the lists that support him, in proportion to the consents obtained by them, beyond the will of the individual citizens. It is said that this law must be voted on, otherwise the Consultellum, i.e. the result of two non-laws, will remain in force, because the Consulta pronounces constitutional decisions, it has no legislative tasks. This function is certainly the responsibility of Parliament, but there was no and there is no single way out. In the life of men and in politics the states of necessity occur as a result of choices, approaches, almost never by chance. He's been wasting his time for months. For months the idea of going to vote with the two heterogeneous laws, as a result of the decisions of the Consulta, has been buzzed. For months we wanted to avoid a confrontation, a real discussion that built a good law, almost as if, starting this electoral law from the House, we could not discuss it in the Groups, in the parties, as if it were a corporate or sectoral fact. I think the government's trust, the House and the Senate, is a serious mistake. I am struck by the underestimation of the gravity of this choice, hidden behind the need for a law. To this request, made by some majority groups - including my own - and shared by the right-wing opposition, it would have been right to answer with a no. He was not in the government program: he had explicitly declared it in the Chambers the President of the Council in his speech of settlement. I have no justification for trusting in electoral laws or the Constitution. Are they abstract principles? No, these are values to be kept firm today and tomorrow, as it was yesterday. In any case, I consider this error to be the responsibility of the Government. Greater is that of the parliamentary groups that wanted or shared it, thus distorting the same instrument of trust and contributing to the strengthening of that material constitution that stifles the Constitution of our Republic. The confidence that governments all too often place in implementing their programme, and - it must be acknowledged - also due to the lack of reform of our institutions, this time has been called upon by Parliament to reduce its role, its function; to limit, on the contrary, to cancel the comparison within it, even on a fundamental issue such as the electoral law, which came to its approval at the end of the legislature. Trust has thus become a sort of tool to control secret vows and obstructionism, a sort of alternative and complementary mechanism to kangaroos, leghold traps, etc. It is difficult to think that such a large majority would not have been able to support or direct a serious parliamentary confrontation and to beat any instrumental turnouts of those who wanted to take responsibility for tricks to impose secret votes not due. What has weighed most - in my opinion - is rather the will to have this electoral law passed at all costs before the vote in Sicily. Once again, we are faced with a sort of obsession with deadlines, already seen in a recent past, the importance of which appears clear only in the context of a narrow policy, not for citizens. It is difficult to imagine that the repeated votes of confidence put in this legislature by the governments on electoral laws do not constitute a serious precedent that will weigh on the future of our democracy. The end does not justify the means, not at least anymore. Today a serious policy must be based on means and ends, both valid and valid. In saying this, I don't put in a careless responsibility that the Senate also has the 5 Star Movement or, less so, those of those who speak of "fascistellum": words have a precise meaning and violate it is a deception, not only an extremist dazzle. Nor can I or do not stress the contradictions, the inconsistencies of those who speak of transparency, of rejection of the secret vote and then perhaps invent possible and instrumental secret vows; nor for me are acceptable choices that block, for interests or propaganda of part, the work of the institutions to which we swear loyalty. This type of opposition is certainly not the same as my dissent on the electoral law: I do not share objectives that pursue the "so much worse, so much better." Italy and its institutions do not need these behaviors. My place is not that of non-support for the Government: on its programme, as on the next budget law, my vote will be there. Not today, there can't be, for the reasons I called back. Finally, I make a final remark: I do not know whether this law will give rise to stable government majorities. Personally, I highly doubt it, but I do not want to make any predictions about the future here. What I see and which concerns me, apart from the unresolved issue of mortified sovereignty and a Parliament that does not confront itself and does not discuss, is the division in the centre-left. This division, which I hope can be overcome, but which is complicated in the meantime, would leave wide passages to the right wind that continues to blow loudly in Europe. In Italy, the risks are greater, not less, because there is a right party to European popularism, but that is not an alternative, but an ally of penitentiary parties, therefore hostile to Europe, to the euro, to migrants. I would like to hope that, despite this not positive step, for the spread that is taking place today also on the electoral law, the doors will remain open for a dialogue on the programmes, for a centre-left alliance to be rebuilt before it is too late, that is, before its credibility is finally lost and with it the desire to stand in the field, to participate, to engage with those millions of citizens who are still looking at us. [[Applause from the Group Art.1-MDP and Senator Compagna. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-905.ana.u56	He's enlisted to speak Senator Bocchino. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-905.ana.u57	Mr President, I would like to speak on one particular aspect of this law. 11:07 a.m. (Following BOCCHINO). Perhaps not many know that the Rosatellum law intervenes on a fundamental aspect for the democratic life of this country, which is the transparency of the parties. I want to talk about it now, because I have not heard much debate on this issue and because it will probably be - I fear - the last time in this House, during the current parliamentary term, we will talk about the transparency of the parties. And this will be a very serious and tragic mistake for which the majority who approve the law will be entirely responsible. So let's start with the Constitution. According to Article 49 "All citizens have the right to associate freely in parties in order to contribute democratically to determining national policy". According to some constitutionalists, Article 49 of the Constitution is what needs most a law of transposition to carry out its beneficial effects. In order to do so, however, it is necessary to give a correct interpretation of the clause "with a democratic method" contained in its wording. The debate on those three words began in the constituent Assembly and still lasts today. Two are the opposite thesis put on the field. According to a first doctrine, this phrase refers to the external relations between parties and their activities in society and in Parliament. In contrast to this thesis, however, there is a second interpretation, more widespread than the first, which wants the democratic method referred to in Article 49 to refer to the internal activities of the parties, to their functioning and to their internal rules, in the realization, that is, of the so-called principle of internal democracy. In this case, we need a new regulatory intervention, a law that realises the principle of internal democracy for all parties that contribute to national politics and, therefore, to national political elections. In the first Commission here in the Senate, we are debating the bill n. 2439 "Norms to promote transparency and democratic participation" (now I fear firm and dead) to which I and a group of colleagues of many groups, all united by political militancy in the 5 Star Movement in a first phase, have tabled amendment 3.1, with which we want to take a clear, clear and strong position in the debate, in favour of the principle of internal democracy; a position also supported by the majority of constitutionalists who were audited in the Commission at the time of the passage to the House of Law n. 2439. Of the 12 speakers on this subject, eight were in favour of intervening in some form on the principle of internal democracy, and of these four were in favour of very strong intervention on the subject. When we petitioned in the 5 Star Movement, we did so also and above all because we believed that there were, or would soon be, participation and participation of the members in the determination of the political line; physical assemblies where such participation and competition were implemented; lists of transparent members; clear votes, except in the cases provided for in the Regulations; guarantee of contradiction in case of disciplinary measures. Today we are out of that party, because there is none of this in the 5 Star Movement, and our attempts to change things from within have failed. Now the courts are thinking about it, to which some of the expulsions from that party, for example those of Naples and Genoa, who are making rag paper of the dancers and making them rules that have given themselves inside. But we went further. We signatories today believe that a party which does not pursue the principle of internal democracy by means of a public manifestation of will, a real statute drawn up in the form of a public act, containing elements of internal democracy to which it is obliged, represents a danger for the active participation of citizens in politics; it lends itself to the drift of the shift leader not easily accountable to the community; it does not ultimately satisfy Article 49 of the Constitution and, therefore, cannot and should not participate in national political elections. That is the point of the amendment that we tabled in the first Senate Commission to the draft law on the transparency of political parties, and that is the sense of an identical, now deceased amendment - amendment 1.26, just for the record - which we submitted to the draft electoral law when we examined it. Yes, Mr President: this draft electoral law, in Article 1, paragraphs 6,7 and 8, introduced into the House, makes the statute not mandatory, but only optional, relegating it only to cases of access to tax contributions and benefits, as if democracy, transparency and the protection of registered citizens and voters - be careful - were merely a fiscal fact, rather than a fundamental principle of democracy, without whether or not but not. Incrediblely, Mr President, we have even spoken to the House in a pejorative sense, where Italicum had included the obligatory presentation of the statute for all the parties that appear at the elections, even if the absence of a sanctioning mechanism actually made this requirement in vain. It is a pejorative element that joins many others, President, which make this bill an incredible step backwards compared to the already bad Italicum. Colleagues and colleagues, here and now I want to put all the majority who support this electoral law in front of their responsibilities. I see here the President of the 1st Commission, whose drawers contain the bill on parties and conflict of interest. Too many times, politics has derailed and postponed to address crucial issues for the good democratic performance of the institutions, with effects and repercussions that have struck at the heart the feeling of citizens' participation in politics, causing them to move away. One example for all is the conflict of interest, a more than twenty-year-old affair which has not yet been completed, since the draft law is already in force in the first Commission. Another is the transparency of the parties, no less important, that this draft electoral law, unhealthy in its content and even in the forms by which it was imposed once again with countless issues of trust, renounces to regulate. Unbelievable what a deadly cocktail we are delivering to the country, through the combined arrangement of these large absentees: conflict of interest, transparency in parties and this bill pretendedly proportional. It is an electoral bill that - we have seen it - renounces to transpose the principle of internal democracy of the parties and, indeed, worsens their implementation. The Parliament of the 18th legislature that will emerge from this law will therefore see, in these groups, a mix of nominated puppet parliamentarians, maneuvered by forefathers or entrepreneurs in clear or less obvious conflict of interest and unable to oppose what is dictated to them by their respective offices, with executives who follow each other by dynastic succession from father to son in perfect identity with the company turnover. These are all things that we have already seen and which we are seeing, of which you majority senators who will approve this bill will be responsible and conniving. Well, it remains with the record, Mr President, that we for a whole series of reasons and also - and I also stress - for the very serious shortcomings of the draft law under consideration and for the impossibility of having even been able to discuss it with amendments in a normal parliamentary debate, because of the arrogant way of proceeding with blows of confidence, we will not stand. [[Applause from the Mixed Groups and Senator Baptist.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-905.ana.u58	He's enlisted to speak Senator Airola. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-905.ana.u59	Mr President, Article 72 of the Constitution prohibits a fundamental bill such as the one in the electoral field from proceeding without debate or being able to amend article by article. I'm not quoting him, because you know him very well. When I strongly reminded President Grasso and President Zanda, at a meeting of the Group Leaders on 20 December 2014, at 5.30 a.m., just because Renzi needed his Christmas election spot, you laconically replied to me "it can be done." So, quietly, with the approval of then President Napolitano, without too much noise, you have cleared up the constitutional rules and the sacrosanct right of Parliament to legislate. I have heard terrible words in this House which, with the perverse naturalness of which you are capable, seem normal, harmless, but they are not at all. President Grasso gave the start to the joint debate on five - I say five - trust in the draft law on electoral law, a procedural abomination, thus depriving the Senate of the possibility to improve the law or at least to make it more shared. Another beautiful word is "shared," as beautiful as the Tedeschellum could be, whose bill had departed with that intention. There were problems, but they can be solved, and we're paid specifically to solve them. Instead for an rejected amendment it was sent back to the Commission and turned into an anti-5 Star monster called Rosatellum- bis, and bis because you had already tried it again. Think of how sloppy you are in your violation of the Constitution and the rules: the third office of the State, President Boldrini, has forgotten a secret vote during the vote of the Tedeschellum and made it clear; so on the scoreboard of the vote it was clear who first dug down that bill most politically shared, namely the PD itself, in the first place your deputy with the unpronounceable name Gutgeld. [[Applause from Senator Bottici.]] This is how you took everything, in spite of any rule, in silence, without the denunciation of that public service - alas - in the hands of the Government, managed by puppets such as Mario Orfeo and his faithful friends. Beware of the little friends, Orpheus, for the end of Dall'Orto. When President Grasso announced the opening of the joint debate on trust issues, the Italians who might have accidentally heard the live news seemed to hear as follows: Toh, it's raining today. Never, ever, have the walls of this House absorbed such anti-democratic concepts as a single debate on five issues of trust in an electoral law: this means that we cannot represent the sovereign people. Besides, both you and I know how much ambush is feared here - another term of criminal fiction - about secret vows. President Grasso and I in particular know this very well, for past events, when trust was used because we could vote on the bill on civil unions and we were afraid of five votes by secret ballot. You in the parties live divided, one against the other, betraying yourselves in the strenuous struggle for the maintenance of power, ready for everything, even yet another broad understanding, an eternal project so dear to our emeritus President Napolitano. It is silent about the serious claims of PD Zanda's leader when he claims that they are technical trusts, with an algida, eversive definition, that even Bokassa would not have had the courage to express. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] Here we have to tremble: 50 amendments to be voted on by secret ballot! You're terrified. It's pure terror. You're scared because you don't have the numbers, so you're at the gas barrel. Zanda argues that trust issues are raised because oppositions, with secret vows, are likely to change the text of the bill. Think about it if you change it. That would be normal. They called Fascistellum the PD bill, but I don't find it correct, because the fascists dared much less. At the time real men and women sat on these cracks to defend democracy from fascist authoritarianism and stopped them. I think it's wrong to call you PD fascists because you're much worse than the fascists. It's an insult to the real fascists. They, in fact, came announcing themselves on their trucks singing: "Alarms, alarms we are fascists," while you, who call you heirs of the antiphsascism, betrayed the people by deceiving them in a cowardly way. In conclusion, Mr President, we are extremely saddened, but we do not give up and the citizens are protesting out here, because it is now clear what is happening. When President Grasso (the fair referee), Zanda and the fake oppositions like Lega Nord and Forza Italia consume this democratic disaster only to exchange a bag of marbles and a few MPs, bartering it with their vote and their honor, people will know. The people gathered out here know that. They know that despite the technicalities and periphrases you use, you are depriving them of the vote. And no one will be surprised when they come out of here and hear you sing: "Alarm, alarm siam piddini, terror of citizens and freedom" [[Applause from the M5S Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-905.ana.u60	Senator Cervellini is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-905.ana.u61	Mr President, I am immediately making a preliminary communication: on 4 December last, Italian citizens confirmed our wonderful democratic and anti-fascist constitution. And I'm saying that because I'm starting to think that you've been studying this mess thinking that last December 4 had passed the junk of reform that had been approved by the same methods you're proceeding with. After the vote Renzi and Boschi, who had announced that, in case of defeat, they would leave politics and give up, they remained in full swing. And I say this with all sincerity, also because the other laws you had done before the referendum had the characteristic of having been made in a version consistent with the schiform that should have become operational. I am sorry to see all the Provinces of Italy, the Metropolitan Provinces and not, abandoned, without more resources, with the uncertainty even of workers and workers. There are only four money left, but remaining all the competences that are also constitutional, that do not allow to repair the holes on the road, the viaducts, the schools and their roofs. On the streets, which are full of holes, they bought only the signs that show the limit of 30 kilometers per hour. You have not won the reform: the Provinces are a constitutional forecast and deserve not the sleep that has been lasting for months, but to be put in a certain condition. You didn't win it and you have to be careful and correct, because the damage to it was paid by the citizens. But at least there you had the hope of winning. Here, however, the cunning, the tricks and falsehoods do not make any sense. Where do you think you're going in this style? Even the appointed faithful, once elected by these rules, having no program constraints, less than ever ideals, will be able to move to 360 degrees, since perhaps, as in the rules of the proposal under consideration, votes a pacifist and is elected an interventionist, or vice versa; votes an animalist and is elected a hunter, or vice versa. You are digging the pit to what remains of the credibility of politics and parties. I am not pleased with this; I know that, when this happens, often dramatic scenarios are opened, especially in situations such as ours, where the suffering of the population is great because of the lack of work, social and environmental security and the total uncertainty of rights. The ghosts of the darkest past are all lurking here. Then why do you fear confrontation? You don't even have the alibi of obstruction, flagged during the constitutional battle. It was untenable even then, but it doesn't exist today. There were a handful of amendments on the subject, all of them, to try at least to correct, if it was impossible to start over, the monstrosities present. All the speakers have identified some of the most abominable. The point is that you have come to this total and final forcing because you do not trust your parliamentarians. That's it. Theft of democracy, the limitless cheating is all that's due to it. The President of the Council had said, after 4 December - in that case he understood what had happened - that the Government would only be a facilitator and would not have entered into an exclusive prerogative of Parliament. You don't know what it's like to keep your word and be consistent. Be careful, because not even the fake bullshit polls, the ones you pay, make you feel safe. We are all reading, these days, that you pay them and they no longer feel like representing you as the Italy of the white mill. No, they're telling you right now, and it's gonna be a disaster in the North. You were calm after the approval of the constitutional counter-reform, even overwhelming; we were insulted, mocked; you were talking about Bulgarian percentages. We saw him. Even those congressmen and senators who vote for such craps know that. Don't trust them, and they don't trust you either. They obey as long as they are forced. Trust in you is over, and that's why we wrote on our "zero trust" signs. We will see it on November 5 in Sicily and in Ostia; we will see it in the upcoming national elections. You must run because, after the vote of Sicily, even imposing trust could not guarantee the discipline of the senators. Don't trust me, and so do the Constitution. Yesterday you commemorated the October Revolution; you had to commemorate the defeat of Caporetto, because this is the Rosatellum for you. [[Applause from the Misso-SI-SEL Group]] Know that Renzi-Cadorna will blame the jocks and officers, those who went to risk in the trenches that you built like that. He turns by train to inspect the troops and officers, sending secure nominations maybe in those colleges abroad where you have done yet another scam, where they can go even the embarrassing to make them vote as when hiding the dust under the carpet, to understand us. Senator Micheloni spoke very well about it. Stop. From tomorrow the road is without return. You will have permanently compromised every capacity of alliance; it will be fine if the right will take some of your elected after the vote, if it will need a handful of votes, as you have done during this terrible legislature. You've been scorned. Now, however, in the residual twilight of the legislature, you can give the cards. It won't be like that anymore. And you could give them with our vows, by the way. But it won't be like that anymore. Others will give the cards, the right hand will give the cards and they can be absolutely and just as disrespectful, because you have made craps of the Constitution, of the existing Constitution, of the institutions, of any rule or right. The right-wings with this filth have an extraordinary advantage, because they do not have problems of programmatic consistency and even less ideal, and they have never had them, but I am talking not about the past, but about today. Look at the results of the referendums in Lombardy and Veneto. There have been parties inside that have a nationalist and centralist approach, but that have not been troubled to say that they are building the alliance. Good for them, but of course this can't be the left. I read that Renzi is going to campaign for the vote. But, then, it's like the famous Japanese on the island who thought World War II was still going on after so many years from its end. We'll do it. The left will make the campaign of the useful vote on the left. [[Applause from the Misso-SI-SEL Group]] After Sicily and Ostia, where you have no mathematical chance of being competitive, the useful vote on the left can certainly not look to the Democratic Party that, along with a piece of the right, will be fine if it arrives third among the contenders. He'll be fine if he gets third. Then there is the battle to be waged for the useful vote on the left. Everyone speaks to the electorate who intends to represent in terms of collective interests, of being on the side of the world of work, of young people who do not have it, of the elderly for whom, by now, it is normal to retire at seventy years, even in the case of weary jobs. True, life expectancy increases, but death at work also increases. You don't know? Then read it, inquire! I'm not telling you to go to the yards but at least tell yourself what's going on. In this sense, with all the operations you've done, you're alone. And bring the deputies and senators like sacrificial lambs. With several of you there was a knowledge and esteem from before. In these five years I have known so many others of you and I have increased my esteem for you, for many senators and senators, people I have known, capable and prepared. I don't have a problem saying that. That is why I conclude by saying: really stop. Otherwise, I wish you good luck. [[Applause from the Mixed Groups and Art.1-MDP.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-905.ana.u62	Senator Cappelletti is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-905.ana.u63	Mr President, the Government raises the question of trust in violation of Article 72 of the Constitution, but no one breaks down. Moreover, it puts confidence in this electoral law which is a scam against citizens and the country. Truffle, probably, is the term that I have heard most quoted during this debate in Parliament: law scam! Well, I respond to this abuse with the words of Bertolt Brecht: When injustice becomes law, resistance becomes a duty. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] You went from the Renzi-Berlsuconi-Verdini trio to the Renzi-Berlusconi-Salvini trio, but the result is exactly the same. This bill has a dual purpose: on the one hand, damage the country's first political force and secure your system of government and fake opposition. You have made an unconstitutional electoral law, deliberately, to make the country's change more difficult. Take away the right of citizens to choose their parliamentarians, through the counterfeiting and manipulation of their votes. This is a scam law, which deludes the citizen to be able to elect his own representative who can easily identify in the single college. But, thanks to artifices and tricks, that same citizen will instead contribute to electing others, unwanted, or even belonging to a different party. They will be elected by the party secretariats, selected according to their attitude to obedience. These Members will therefore reply not to the citizens, but to those who appointed them, i.e. to the secretariats, which, as we know very well, in turn respond to the lobbyists on duty, as we have also seen widely in this parliamentary term. And the cycle continues, to the detriment of democracy, to the detriment of the citizens and to the detriment of the country. This law will not even bring stability to the country. According to major observers and analysts, it will not really give any chance to govern. And this makes clear the need, for the formation of a majority and the birth of a Government, to make a coalition of coalitions, or at least an incestuous union between the two main opposing groups, Democratic Party and Forza Italia, opponents of course only of facade, only for the time of the electoral campaign. In short, the design seems to be all too clear: to create a new conservation government, Renzi-Berlusconi. But the only convergence between the Democratic Party and Forza Italia would not have been enough. There was a need for a "useful idiot" that would bring a further and necessary contribution of consent. And quickly there he comes: his name is Matthew Salvini. On the other hand, as Mr Endrizzi has already said, what else can the children of Porcellum do if not a new piggy? [[Applause from the M5S Group]] This draft electoral law, which formally drives political groups to join forces, actually drives them to make real crowds, only aimed at the electoral moment. Think, for example, of the League, which, fresh from a referendum on autonomy in Veneto and Lombardy, already announces alliances with the centralist parties, which have already rejected any decentralisation here in Parliament. In short, the only purpose is to collect some extra seats, without any sharing of a project, without any sharing of a program, without any sharing of a Premier candidate. This bill will allow, among other things, a former political leader who is adversely affected to see his name printed on the ballot, although he has been banned by public offices, despite the fact that under Italian law he cannot run for office or hold a government role. But the Silvio Berlusconi resurrected by Salvini, and driven out for unworthiness by Parliament (where in any case he never came) by the effect of the Severino law, is by chance the same of the P2, of the relations with the mafia, of the bribes, of the sale of judges, of the purchase of parliamentarians, of fakes in the budget, of tax frauds, of conflicts of interest, of the laws ad personam? No, it can't be him, it can't be. Mr Rizzotti (FI-PdL XVII). Shut up! Mr Lezzi (M5S). You shut up! Mr Capelletti (M5S). That's not possible. Yet, in order to damage the 5 Star Movement you are overcoming every worst imagination, you are making the country that we love and that needs to enter the future, in its worst past. I shall conclude, Mr President. I mean, you're humiliating millions of honest citizens and you think you can get away with it. I think you are mistaken, because you are underestimating the intelligence of citizens, underestimating the will, the desire of millions of people to participate in the political life of the country, millions of people who today feel defrauded of one of their most important rights, to decide who to vote for. You think Italians drink everything. I think you're wrong. This law will be a boomerang that will turn against you because you cannot stop a movement of change that is already mature in the country. Citizens are becoming increasingly aware that your "Imbrogliellum" is just a scam and they will remember it in the next election. [[Applause from the M5S Group. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-905.ana.u64	Senator Uras is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-905.ana.u65	Mr President, I have never believed, and I do not believe that an electoral system can distort a popular will. I think that we must be careful to safeguard the constitutional rights of all our citizens and to comply with the basic Charter as precisely as possible. I do not forget, however, that this is a parliamentary term which began under the dubious legitimacy of Parliament because of the electoral law used to constitute it. The Porcellum has been subjected to the examination of the Constitutional Court, which has identified in the Porcellum defects constitutionally relevant so as to intervene with its own judgment to reduce its ability to intervene. So we had an obligation, said the Constitutional Court itself in dismissing the sentence: we had an obligation to address the problem of the electoral system and to return to citizens a legitimate electoral law from the constitutional point of view. We have begun this parliamentary term with great difficulty and we note another element: no political deployment, no homogeneous coalition had won the elections. We therefore had an unconstitutional electoral law and a non-existent political majority, which came out of the electoral outcome. There was a phase which I did not take part in, although I was a member of the Common Good coalition, which was majority over the others in the Italian Parliament, with a certain majority in the Chamber of Deputies. I did not participate, indeed, I opposed for several years, but I remember those days, those months and efforts made by everyone to start a process of constitutional reform that included also the electoral law. One thing therefore follows: we in this Parliament could not leave without our first duty, namely to return to Italian citizens a constitutionally guaranteed electoral law. This work has been for a certain stage accompanied by a broader reformist will. We all thought, even though we did not agree on the substance, that this would also be an opportunity for a constitutional reform and for months and years we discussed it in this Parliament, even in a very lively way. So much so that we went with a constitutional reform approved by Parliament, by a very large majority, to a confrontation with the country through a confirmed referendum. I voted no to the referendum, because I am a sincere self-governmentist and then I am going to make a move on minorities, on exploitation of them and also on self-nomism, because these issues always deserve reflection, but today in a particular way. I voted no, but that constitutional system, which in my opinion mortified the autonomy and exalted a centralism or neocentralism of the national state, was accompanied by an electoral law in accordance with that type of reform. So we found ourselves with an approved electoral law, perhaps constitutionally valid but ineffective in relation to another constitutional system, which was that of the beginning of the legislature, because that measure reflected the needs that had been expressed in the constitutional reform approved by Parliament and then rejected by the subsequent confirmation referendum. So the subject was equally relevant. For us - I speak for myself, for my colleagues Orellana and Dario Stefano - as parliamentarians and as people, because we do not have the ambition to represent political movements and for us it is worth the reasoning we make as parliamentarians, assuming responsibility for what we do - today it is worth voting on this proposal for an electoral law, so that we will fulfil a duty that we felt to assume when we voted on the trust of the Government Gentiloni Silveri. We, my colleague Dario Stefano and I first, for the first time in this parliamentary term, have voted for trust in a government. And we have done so in order to respond to existing concerns: on the one hand, the concern of securing the accounts, because this is a country that comes out of the crisis, that has been suffered by citizens and not by parliamentarians, and, coming out of the crisis, we must never throw away the work done, but we must keep it and start from that, to make it a better one; on the other hand, the concern to give voters a constitutional law, which allows citizens to elect a new Parliament. Then it is true that, when electoral laws are not experimented on the ground, but only on paper in the simulations of experts based on surveys, but also on the gossip and chatter that certain political communication continues to develop, someone thinks they are damaged and someone else thinks they are favored. The reality is that, many times, those who think they are favored will then end up being harmed and those who think they are harmed will perhaps end up being favored and then they will find themselves saying that it would be better, at the time of approval, to say that everything was fine, while others will find themselves saying that they should never have passed that law. So it was done and was said at other times. We make a clear choice, which does not call into question any of the difficulties we see, even in the text that will be adopted. There are, also of a technical nature, also in the allocation of seats and there will be a legal debate as well as in its own seats, to understand how parliamentarians will be assigned to the different coalitions and political forces. However, I would like to stress that, in the meantime, this is not a law that takes as its cornerstone governance at the expense of representation, because the 3% barrier allows the composition of a Parliament that takes into account the articulation and the political complexity present in our country, allows the formation of homogeneous coalitions, allows guarantees for what concerns gender equality and allows, above all, the harmonization of the elective systems of the House and Senate, which was one of the open issues that we wanted to contribute to closing. For the reasons I have expressed, Mr President, we will vote for confidence. [[Applause from the Mixed Group and the Senators Caleo and Orellana]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-905.ana.u66	Senator Mazzoni is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-905.ana.u67	Mr President, the analysis of the electoral law under consideration can only start from the situation in which Parliament has been operating, a very difficult context, the result of two decisions of the Council and the rejection of constitutional reforms. As a result of these two causes, Italy does not today have a coherent electoral law for the two branches of Parliament and does not even have a law in any way operative, because if it lived the Consultellum it would be necessary a regulatory intervention of harmonization between Chamber and Senate. It was therefore necessary to remedy this by means of a law which first respected the dictates of the two judgments of the Court and agreed on a parliamentary majority, the broadest possible, not least because it would have been at least inconvenient for the legislator, from an institutional point of view, not to attempt to respond to the repeated appeals of the Head of State for the adoption of a shared electoral law. After the failed attempt of last June, when a Bulgarian majority failed to bring home the result, stopping at the first secret vote, risking a failure even today, at the gates of the dissolution of the legislature and with a very delicate budget law still to be written, it would have been too dangerous. Dangerous for the democratic holding of a country is certainly not to approve an electoral law with a vote of confidence; it would be, instead, to reach a few months of the elections having as the current electoral system "two remnants of war" as defined by the President emeritus of the Constitutional Court, Valerio Onida. Two dangerous and unusable remnants of war. Unusable, because those laws are completely lacking the rules to allow the expression of the vote of preference to the Senate and, again to the Senate, it is not known whether coalitions could form - with 3% barrier to the linked lists - or whether each party should run alone and exceed 8%. Not to mention the absolute madness of the preferences to be collected in an entire region, the blocked capilists and the majority prize provided only for the House. A seemingly calm chaos that resembles much of the tranquillity that precedes the storm. Therefore, using the vote of confidence to prevent the storm of a next Parliament that is certainly ungovernable should not be considered an attack on democracy, if anything as an act of responsibility. A political responsibility to which we will not subtract, consistent with what we have always done throughout this parliamentary term - without ever asking for anything in return - also because this law has helped to write it to the House and we still do so today in order to guarantee its approval quickly and without unnecessary risks. Moreover, the history of this Parliament is full of crucial measures which have fallen under the blows of the free shooters. Ambushes moved in the shadows, as happened in the House a few months ago, in the name of the much worse, so much better. Then I want to remember what the Consulta asked us with its judgments of 2013 and 2017: a law with short lists of candidates or single-name colleges, a uniform law for the two Chambers, a law with an automatism for the option of the multi-elected: all characteristics proper to the Rosatellum. There were other points raised by the Court, aspects of the law that would be considered legitimate under certain conditions. One of them is the majority prize. We had asked for a law that was at least partially majority, presenting a text with 50 percent colleges and 50 percent proportional lists. We then voted yes to the House at the Rosatellum in its first version, we opposed the German proportional system and today we can only be satisfied with the desire to adopt a mixed system that recognizes the value of coalitions. We would have liked this quota to have been higher, with a prize or with a greater number of colleges. Today we say that this is okay, even if the value of governability remains penalized, a value that cannot be sacrificed on the altar of representation at all costs. Representation without majoritarian correctives often means ungovernability; think, for a moment, of Germany of Weimar and France of the fourth Republic, without forgetting our first Republic with its fifty governments in forty-seven years. Majoritarian or at least mixed systems seem better to meet the needs of modernity, giving the possibility of having a winner at the outcome of the elections and stability to governments. In recent years alone, the great European nations on the verge of institutional crisis due to proportional representation have been many: Belgium has not had an Executive for eighteen months; Spain and Greece have gone to the polls twice in twelve months and now Germany will probably be forced to a coalition that will go from liberals to greens, passing through Christian Democrats. So we have first of all the duty to equip the country with a system as efficient and coherent as possible, responding, as I have already said, to the repeated appeals made by the President of the Republic. This law at least has its consistency between the House and the Senate; as for its efficiency, i.e. the possibility of forming a homogeneous political majority without a significant majority prize, doubts are legitimate: it will depend on the electoral campaign and the political offer that the coalitions will be able to present. But it is clear that in a tripolar system the only real guarantee of governability would give it the ballot, that in the Italicum was expected and that the Consulta actually made it impossible. In this situation, what is the point of demonizing the coalitions, whose introduction cost the Rosatellum even the definition of criminal law? Here, this authoritative critic has proved to have really short memory. I remember, in fact, that the Italicum had been defined by many as a subversive law because it would favor the advent of the famous man only under command, as it introduced the majority prize to a single party instead of a coalition of parties. I also remember, incidentally, that coalitions already exist in the laws for municipalities and regions (you obviously read criminals also those...), and it doesn't seem to me that someone has accused them of anti-democraticism. Coalitions, moreover, that would have reappeared also with the Consultellum, because they still exist for the Senate. The real problem that can and must be discussed, as I have already mentioned, is whether this law meets the requirement of governability. From this point of view, the Rosatellum has a modest majority correction, but honestly it could not be done more, given the rigid stakes placed by the Consulta on the problem of representation. However, since the 232 colleges win the first, it is possible that a coalition of lists or a single list will win a large part of it. Chancellor Merkel, last September, with 33 percent of the votes, won 77 percent of the one-name colleges. Even in the presence of a minimum detachment between first and second, therefore, a net victory can occur in the colleges. It will depend on the electoral campaign, which a share of votes always moves them, on the organization of the political offer and of course on the choices of the voters. Which normally happens when we are in the presence of democratic electoral laws, as in all respects is the Rosatellum. This is not a perfect law, but talking about a coup d'état is really ridiculous, as well as dangerous. [[Applause from the ALA-SCCLP Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-905.ana.u68	Senator Lo Moro is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-905.ana.u69	Mr President, by taking part in this joint debate on the five votes of confidence, my speech will of course be directed in the direction of contesting first the issue of trust and then giving explanations of substance. They have spared us confidence only on one of the articles of the law, Article 5, which is that of financial invariance. For the rest, the whole law, the entire article was submitted to the vote of confidence. The first question that you ask yourself and that anyone should ask is: why the vote of confidence? On this we have two possible interpretations, both of which are supported and reflected in statements made by some of the government's representatives. It puts the vote of confidence because there are secret votes or rather, before the question of trust was raised, it was argued that, if there were secret votes, the question of trust would be raised. I would like to make one comment on this: what does it mean to put the question of trust in the event of secret votes? 11:58 a.m. (Follows Lo Moro). It basically means one thing: the government or rather, the majority - or the non-majority, we will see this - that supports this government, is concerned about how the senators of the groups who support the government vote. She is certainly not concerned about how the opposition groups vote, which are openly and openly opposed. The concern of the majority groups and the government is therefore that latent dissent, which is also felt in this House (and not only) is expressed by the secret vote, as happened, moreover, in the Commission in the House, on the occasion of the vote on the prototype electoral law that preceded this. I say this to my colleagues and to those who listen to us, because I am convinced that many listen to us: it is questionable that even the senators who support the majority be wary of them. The other possibility is that someone asked for another version, which was also offered to the public, according to which the government did not place the question of self-confidence in the House - and therefore would not place here in the Senate - but on request. Whose request do I have to say? You see, this is a government that has gained confidence with programmatic statements that are being denied today. I remember the sentences - and I want to read them - of President Gentiloni Silveri: I leave to the dialectic between the political forces the debate on the duration of the new Government. As far as we are concerned, the Constitution is valid: the Government lasts when it has the confidence of Parliament. This is a consideration that will have to keep in mind President Gentiloni Silveri and who will evaluate the behaviour of the Government, starting from the Head of State. But the specific point I want to make is the part of the programmatic statements in which President Gentiloni Silveri says: Ladies and gentlemen, alongside this activity - the other activity - on our agenda, the debate between the parliamentary forces on the electoral law and the necessary harmonisation of the rules between the House and the Senate will take place. It is a confrontation in which the Government - I want to reiterate this, as I have already had the opportunity to say in meetings with the different delegations - will not be the protagonist. It is your responsibility, ladies and gentlemen, to promote and find effective agreements. Of course, the government will not be at the window, it will try to accompany, facilitate and even urge this confrontation. The concern is not derived from the assessments of the duration of the Commission, it is derived from the institutional awareness that our parliamentary system needs certain and fully applicable electoral rules and needs them urgently. 12:00 p.m. (Following the Dead). Well, from these programmatic statements to the vote of confidence there is a logical gap that is not easy to understand, especially considering that Gentiloni Silveri has committed himself, with his majority at the time, to the one that expressed the confidence at the time of the inauguration of this Government, to follow a path of collaboration and accompaniment, but not to have, as he has today, a role as a protagonist. Perhaps Gentiloni Silveri is already aware that the majority of that time is not the majority of today, that there is a majority change? And that wasn't supposed to lead to a government crisis? Or rather, as an alternative, Gentiloni Silveri is aware that he no longer has a majority, as probably in a few hours, only tomorrow, when we vote for trust, will it be obvious. Indeed, the majority who voted for it, the senators who gave him confidence in that circumstance, some of them, will not confirm it. Silveri Gentiles, then, do you know that you don't have a majority? And if you know, are you following the directions of a minority holding it to the government? These are all considerations that we will examine in the field. I just want to draw attention to a statement made by the PD Zanda leader, who - it is clear - is an expert in the strategy of parliamentary dynamics, which is well aware of what will happen in this House. Well, Zanda says that the five votes of confidence requested from the Senate by the Government for the approval of electoral reform are a technical element. This is astonishing: that the Leader, so experienced, of the Democratic Party speaks of a technical element regarding votes of confidence not on any law, which may have to do with the costume or rights, but even on the most political law that can be in a parliament, which is the electoral law, is astonishing, if it is not that it attests to the full awareness that he has of the fact that the Government, in order to have sufficient numbers to pass this electoral law, needs support. Not only, probably, of the support of those who will depart and of the support we have already seen (in this sad story we have some experience), but also of concrete support visible, of votes, which will be said to be technical votes. I don't think we can continue with this fiction. I believe that Gentiloni Silveri and those who observe the parliamentary dynamics with much higher responsibilities will have to take note that the majority who gave confidence to the Gentiloni Government Silveri is no longer there in December 2016 and, if there is a new majority, it is necessary to proceed with a crisis of government. I do not know any other way, at least if the rules of parliamentary law, which many of you here could certainly teach me, are still valid. And now I would like to make some comments on the subject. In the debate, even in the last speech, reference has often been made to a value that was born when for the first time it was written in a sentence, n. 1 of 2014: stability, most often cited as governability, the stability of the Government. Well, I believe that this value, which is certainly of constitutional importance, is mentioned quite out of proportion. I remind everyone that in that judgment the Court speaks about it because it is evaluating the majority prize - which will then declare unconstitutional - and, in order to explain the limits that a legislator has, it maintains that constitutional values and first of all Articles 1, 3 and 48, second paragraph, of the Constitution, that is, articles recalling popular sovereignty and voting, which must be direct, personal and free, can be compressed. The electoral systems often involve compromises, but serious compromises, of some importance can only be justified by the achievement of objectives of constitutional importance such as, in particular, the stability of the government. Here we have denounced, with the questions of prejudice, the distortions of the vote, but no one seems to have disputed those elements in the matter, because what does the distortions of the vote that we denounced with governability have to do with them? I would remind everyone that the distortions we are talking about do not concern the majority share, which, among other things, represents a third of the House and the Senate, therefore a number of Members who are absolutely minority in relation to the rest of the members. The distortion of the vote that we have denounced concerns, instead, the proportional quota, that is that component of the Chamber and the Senate that should guarantee the value of representativeness. So we are not introducing distortions to ensure governance, but we are - or rather are - introducing distortions for another reason: not because you are pursuing objectives of constitutional importance, but because you are pursuing the objective of achieving, however, the approval, even with the confidence, of a law that has all these limits, because you must have it immediately and immediately, I would say before the vote of the Sicilian Regional Assembly (someone said so and I repeat it). The gravity of all this is that you have not actually allowed us to discuss it. If anyone speaks outside this Chamber of debate, just read the parliamentary acts to see where this debate has been: where were the members of the League, who will benefit, perhaps more than any other political force, from this measure and who, rightly, do not take part in it? Where are the members of Forza Italia? Because the far-fetched coalitions we are talking about, with different programs and with different leaders, are not for Renzi, but are used to write the names of Berlusconi, Salvini and Meloni, to join in coalitions that will divide with different programs the next day, serve to guarantee what Salvini says: it will be the leader who will have more votes. Well, you have not allowed us to discuss the matter, and you have not allowed this House to discuss the matter with you, not even on matters of common sense. To name one of them all, it was not even possible to discuss the article (which is neither Article 1 nor Article 2) which provides for delegation to the Government, therefore not even about the timing and composition of the Commission. It is incredible that with the vote of confidence it is obtained that the Commission which will draw colleges will be appointed exclusively by government and that there will be no participation in the appointment of the President of the Senate, nor of the President of the House, that is, of impartial bodies and subjects. These are the conditions under which the vote of confidence is taken: with a distortion of the free and illegitimate vote and without debate. Without discussion even on elements that may seem less important, but that denounce what the goal is: you have made an untenable agreement and you want to guarantee it with a vote of confidence. [[Applause from the Groups Art.1-MDP and Misto-SI-SEL and Senator Morra]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-905.ana.u70	Senator Napolitano is registered to speak. He has the right to speak as a seated person.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-905.ana.u71	Mr President, I would particularly like to thank you for considering my personal difficulties, allowing me to take the floor at this desk. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the so controversial process of the new electoral law has brought to the fore requirements and reasons that cannot be easily combined, to be considered, however, not only in relation to a significant, dramatic contingency such as the one we are talking about. On the one hand, there has been a strong need for some time in the experience and evolution of public life, not only in Italy: I am talking about the decision-making capacity of the democratic system in the face of epochal changes that require timely and incisive responses from government leadership. This raises the question of adopting measures to solve problems of innovation and change which have been debated and unsolved for too long. On the other hand - and here I have felt and I think I must put a strong emphasis on myself - the reasons for the balance between the institutions, the powers and the roles of each of them within the individual constitutional systems and in line with the European framework emerge. I would like at least in the near future, under different conditions, to be able to discuss these issues among the political forces in Parliament as issues of general interest and of common political and institutional responsibility. But can the undoubted need for a rapid decision-making capacity be invoked by Parliament to the extent that its role and rights, both of the institution and of individual Members and senators, are severely undermined? The question arose in concrete terms in recent weeks with the Government's decision to put confidence in the substantive parts of the text, before the debate on the amendments to Article 1 was opened in the Chamber. But I wonder, apart from the opposing positions expressed in this respect by the political and parliamentary forces: is there a general dilemma to be discussed together and in perspective? The dilemma is not trust or trust, also because even before the Constitutional Court an objection of unconstitutionality of trust has never been addressed. However, there has been in Italian experience recourse to trust on occasions and in very different ways. What forcings can imply and produce the use of confidence that will establish the total ineminability of an extremely demanding and delicate bill? That is the point I have raised with the reservations and positions expressed in the specific case that is being concluded in Parliament. That is what I wanted, much more than to wish for a specific amendment to the text. In fact, the hope on my part was that the last survival of the Calderoli law, promulgated in 2005, would be eliminated. That wish did not start from presumptions of unconstitutionality of the clause relating to the indication, in the electoral procedure, of the names of the head of political force and, above all, of the head of the coalition. That wish was based on my experience as President of the Republic of the misunderstandings that had arisen from there in terms of the constitutional balance, overshadowing a direct election of the President of the Council. The critical point was therefore in my eyes that - I repeat - of the total inemissability of the proposal for a new electoral law. Now, let it be clear - it should not have to be remembered - that no one more than I could wish, in unison with President Mattarella, for the adoption of a new electoral law more widely shared by Parliament. This for well-known circumstances had become urgent, although we should be aware of the anomaly of too many, frequent changes in Italy of a discipline, such as the electoral one, which should be (and is generally in Europe) constant for a long time and not be modified on the eve of general political elections. Are we sure that that hour in the vote can hold for a long time, that it has a solid foundation enough to project itself over a horizon of reasonable duration? Well before I was elected President and then in the exercise of my mandate, I had urged and then assumed as a fundamental objective in the interest of the country the adoption of both a new electoral law, and of the reform of the second part of the Constitution, but I found myself faced with nothing in fact throughout the legislature 2008-2013, despite the formal sharing of those objectives by parties of both sides and in spite of promises made and not maintained by them. On the merits, I appreciated the decision to base the new electoral law on a mix of proportional and majoritarian, in the wake of the law Mattarella of 1993, but from which it would have been consistent to mutual also the clear distinction between the candidatures in the colleges and those in the lists of parties [[Applause from the Groups Art.1-MDP and Mixed-SI-SEL]] , really not a mere technicalism, as has been said. Finally, I found it unusual and extremely improper to place the responsibility on the President-in-Office of the Council for a confidence guaranteeing the intangibility of the proposal as it was shared by a large number of parties. President Gentiloni Silveri, under intense pressure, had to adhere - and I regret this - to that convergent request, which came from those who could have asked for the use of trust not already on all the substantive parts of the law, but on points considered decisive, which did not have the lucidity and courage to do. In short, I have understood the difficulty in finding a President of the Council whom I have esteemed and esteemed for the way in which he has guided and led the country, strengthening Italy's position as a valid interlocutor at European and international level. Another issue which has arisen in connection with this affair and which remains, ladies and gentlemen, for all of us to meditate on is how to combat forms of dilatory or paralyzing obstructionism in Parliament. The theme has been the subject of a long history in Italy, starting from effective interventions already in the years of the Iotti presidency in the House. In fact, we could have gone further on that road if, for example, we had not always stayed in the drawer for the reform of the parliamentary regulations. [[Applause from the Art.1-MDP Group and Senator Buemi.]] Having said that, is it correct to argue that today a non-obstructionist line can rely only on extreme means such as frustrating any recourse to the secret voting institute and denying any free amending confrontation? Is that at the cost of any constraints on the rights and roles of Parliament and individual Members? It would be better, ladies and gentlemen, to think about this. We know what my identification was, I could say for a lifetime, with the cause of the parliamentary foundation in our constitutional democracy. But it was essential to me, and this remains the need at the same time for measures and behaviour aimed at greater functionality, efficiency and productivity in the conduct of parliamentary work, including through the quickening and predictability of the times of the examination of each measure in the Chambers, without Parliament itself being exorbited by its functions. All this is also essential to counter the regurgitation of an anti-parliamentary campaign that counts sad historical precedents in Italy. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, at the point where we have to look forward, first of all to the need to safeguard two vital assets for Italy: the stability of government and the development of an assertive and constructive function of our country in the process of integration and unity of Europe, to which our common destiny is fundamentally linked. More generally, I would like to recall the way in which, in summer 2011, I tried to draw the main lessons from the experience of the 150th anniversary of the Unity of Italy. I did so by talking to a large assembly of young people, in the independent context of the Rimini meeting. I engaged there in a wide-ranging speech, beyond the traditional political fences: we must aim, I said, for a great collective effort - born of a common examination of conscience - such as the one from which it emerged, after the liberation from Nazifascism, the democratic, material and moral reconstruction of our country, which - I would like to remind you - accompanied the safeguarding of national unity, challenged by separatist impulses and pressure from neighbouring countries. Even now it is the same drama as the challenges - I added - of our time to represent the spring to proceed in that direction. However, more objectivity is required in analyses and judgements, more openness and less insuffering to the critical voices and opinions of others. There is - let's be clear - to trace the slope of sedimentation in these decades, in the sphere of politics, of closures, of fatiosity, of drifting towards mere clashes of power and even of rampant personalisms as never in every part. The prospect - I repeat today - can only be one: a new sense of common responsibility, beyond the alternating events of political-democratic competition and therefore the placement, in each period, of the individual parties by majority or opposition. Only in this way can we deal with the real system crisis that we are living in Italy and elsewhere. As one of our greatest scholars and analysts of the fundamentals and paths of politics has recently written, we debate what is even in some way a "new chaos" in the face of phenomena such as the prevalence of the "particularities of feelings and passions," psychosis, alarm and fear and self-defense instincts: almost as if - according to the scholar's words - "democracy was losing reason" and thus irremediably losing itself. So it is time, I believe and I would like us to allow ourselves to raise our gaze from the daily confrontation, from its distresses and from its neurosis of the "end of the legislature." In this spirit I preach, with all the problems and reservations that I have tried to motivate, confidence in the Gentiloni Government Silveri to safeguard the value of stability, to allow continuity in action for reforms and for more coherent European integration, including in this part of the legislative term. I speak for trust [[Ironic applause from Senators Giarrusso and Lezzi]] to support the choices of the President of the Council based on the prerogatives attributed to him by the Constitution and by the laws. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause from the PD, Mixed, AP-CpE-NCD and Aut (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT) and PSI-MAIE Groups. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-905.ana.u72	Senator Di Maggio is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-905.ana.u73	Mr President, this parliamentary term has begun badly and is about to end in the worst possible way. Let us close the legislature with a new proposal for an electoral law. Maybe it's better to repeat it, because I think the fact seems quite natural to most people. Let us close the legislature by voting on a new electoral law, that is, I repeat, a few months after the election deadline, or - I try to find a different point of view too - just a few months after the end of the parliamentary term, this Parliament will fire the new rules for the next parliamentary elections. All this on the notes of that unsustainable lightness of being that has animated the politics of the last twenty years and that has magically moved on to that Matteo Renzi that I believe will go to history, I apologize, to the chronicle of Italian politics, like the man whispering to the slides. Mr President, I am sure that we are committing a lightness which will weigh like a boulder on the future of democratic institutions. We believe, that is, that any future coalition or party will be able, within the limits of its mandate, to make itself the electoral law that pleases it the most. And we do so with such a sufficiency that the vote of confidence appears almost the natural inflection of such arrogance. You understand that in the whiteness with which Senator Zanda, in front of the cameras, supports the correctness of this choice. And then the mind runs to good studies past and returns to the spirit that had animated the choices of Roman senators, that spirit that made the age synonym of wisdom. Well, I'm here to ask myself, where has the wisdom of the elders gone? Where's the sense of the state? Where is the care of institutions and - lively God - where has common sense gone? And again, where did the parliamentary debate go? Telling this legislature would be like telling how arrogantly and overwhelmed he has been made with rules, laws, parliamentary regulations, customs and common sense. A parliamentary term under the control of the vote of confidence. But for a moment we want to question ourselves and ask ourselves what the vote of confidence is? In the parliamentary dialectic the vote of confidence is the highest political moment: a choral assumption of responsibility over a project, a program to a vision. Unfortunately, we see that in today's reality this instrument has been degraded to a dozen half-titles through which some powerful in turn imposes the law of the strongest, representing a monocameralism out of all constitutional guarantees. And the Senate becomes a harp within which the confrontation is buried and the dissent silenced and defused with the vow of trust. I have the pleasure of speaking after President Napolitano, but I do not know whether to look with suspicion or with the bonomy that demands respect for the age to this late resistence. President Napolitano, in fact, was, in my opinion, a distracted spectator of the rules of parliament. During his second term of office, his message to the Chambers about the decree of urgency would perhaps have been a drifting embankment that, unfortunately, we record today. [[Comments of Senator Rizzotti]] Not to mention how active the President has been in the attempt to attack our Constitution. But do we remember the referendum on the Constitution? Do we remember that? Do we have any memory of that? Because it is not a late memory, as it has not even been a year. And also many of those who have determined that result today are witnessing the usurpation of our parliamentary prerogatives in a religious silence. But how can we dismiss a bill of electoral reform (I repeat, an electoral reform law) without parliamentary debate, without the senators being able to discuss, verify and amend? We have spent much more time on the measure on Sappada, Mr President, or on the commemoration of Bellini's bicentenary (I don't even remember who it was). This is one of the many disastrous precedents that this legislature has collected. For the first time in Republican history, the Senate is relieved of its functions on the proposal of a law to reform the electoral system. I am astonished at a drift which, moreover, I have long denounced, that is, the systematic exauteration of the legislative function by the executive power over the legislative power. The laws make them and must make them Parliament, as a direct emanation of the people. You can't and you can't have the government or a head of government. We must put an embarrassment on this subtle attempt to insinuate only one man under the command, or a handful of a few, in spite of a system that continues to profess democracy. We must no longer allow space for democracy to be taken away from us. Mr President, I do not know this electoral law, since it has not been possible to do so. And I give you, Mr President, this as my complaint, because someone mentions a past that is completely different from what we are experiencing. In fact, if someone were to take a good look at the history of the fraud law, he would remember that there were extremely significant parliamentary passages. And I remind his person because one of his predecessors, President Paratore, resigned to prevent the question of trust and even those who had to take over...
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-905.ana.u74	Perhaps I have to correct it: he did not resign to avoid the matter of trust, but resigned after it was placed. I'll tell you about the minutes that I've been able to consult. [[Senator Marton's comments.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-905.ana.u75	Even the senator who was supposed to take over, Gasparotto, did not accept the function precisely because the question of trust was raised. In any case, Mr President, since you should and must defend our prerogatives, I give you my complaint. Therefore, if I do not know her, I will not be able to vote for this electoral reform, nor will I be able to vote for the trust or trust that has been requested because, by quoting an authoritative Tuscan author, 'the way still offends me'. [[Applause from Senator Liuzzi]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-905.ana.u76	He's enlisted to speak Senator Mineo. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-905.ana.u77	Mr President, three votes of confidence in the House and five votes in the Senate: it is clear that the Silveri Gentiloni Government and the majority who support it must really have this electoral bill, called Rosatellum, at heart. Yet, you will all remember how two years ago the same majority and a government of which President Gentiloni Silveri considers himself the heir, the continuation, have, always with confidence, voted an electoral law that was absolutely the opposite of the one under discussion today. Italicum, in fact, excluded the coalitions, considering them as a cause of internal competition and therefore of ungovernability. The Rosatellum draws them and frees them from the need to form a common government; therefore, it makes them a simple tool for rapturing votes. Italicum had a mandatory majority prize that was always taken in the second round, and Renzi said that the same evening it would be known who could rule for five years. The Rosatellum does not have the majority prize and will probably make it harder to form a government after the vote, because the electoral coalitions that have formed will probably have to break to build different balances. A scholar of our institutional affairs would wonder how this change in the orientation of the majority is possible, accompanied, however, by a common, continuous insistence and passion for the vote of confidence. As in the yellows, the answer is simple: in this case, the second and third parties agreed to take away the victory of the first. You all know, in fact - out of here we talk about it every day - that the polls say that, if we vote today, the first force would be the 5 Star Movement; shortly after the Democratic Party and third parties, but very far away and competing with each other, the North League and Forza Italia. Yet, if a law passes that provides coalitions without the obligation of the program, for Forza Italia, for the North League and for the party of Mr Meloni, it will be possible to get together without the need to build a government program and to indicate a Premier. Then, probably - the polls say - the first force would no longer be the 5 Star Movement but this right. You will say: but what interest does the Democratic Party have in bringing Berlusconi, Salvini and Meloni back to the center of the political scene, having all the Italian newspapers who have won them and not the 5 Star Movement and have this version of the facts passed abroad? To understand that, we have to go back to what happened a few weeks ago. The Democratic Party had closed, with the 5 Star Movement and with Forza Italia, an agreement for a different electoral law. Then, however, in the face of a marginal amendment, which called into question the alliance with an autonomous, but essentially marginal, force, it was the Democratic Party that withdrew the bill. Why? Very simple: they realized to the Nazarene that the barrier that that law provided would favor the formation of a unique list not only between the Italian Left and Article 1- Democratic and progressive movement, but also, perhaps, even with Progressive Field. Then everything stops, you go back and you create those coalitions that until yesterday constituted the reason of ungovernability because with them you can do two operations, that is, on the one hand, playing on the useful vote and presenting the scary of the right, that has been favored with the electoral law, you can say "come to us" without any programmatic commitment and without reviewing anything of the choices made during the legislature, but only by accommodating you with a flanking list to take some seats. But let us think about what would happen if this did not happen and if the Democratic and Progressive Movement, as it seems since yesterday its leaders went to the Quirinale, did not accept this logic and if it was not accepted, as it seems, not even by Pisapia. This electoral law makes it possible to make a large number of so-called owl lists. There may be a list of Democrats for Puglia, supported for example by the Apulian governor. There may be a list of Democrats for Sardinia, supported by an ex-orange mayor; there may be a green list, a bit radical, with a dye of olive. This is possible because, even with minimal results, even with just one percent, they would still bring forces and dividends to the coalition. In this case the 5 Star Movement would perhaps be third, but the first and second coalitions would be deeply divided between them and build a majority government would be more difficult than if there had been a pure proportional law. All this would, however, be ungenerous of me. Looking at what has happened in this parliamentary term, I have to admit that there is not only an immediate tactical spirit in the process that has led the majority's major party from its initial positions to the end of the parliamentary term. I invite you to remember what happened at the beginning of the summer of three years ago, when after the outcome of the European elections, the Secretary of the Democratic Party thought that he could move on, after having broken the post-Communist left and the CGIL thread, and to be able to transform our institutional system by reducing to one the Chambers of Parliament and passing an electoral law that provided for the election in the second round of the President of the Council and, unique in history - as I told Renzi at a meeting of the PD - this election in the double turn of the candidate President, automatically gave him a prize of 140 Members in the single Chamber. From this point of view, if such a system of constitutional reforms had passed, we would have had the kind of governability that President Napolitano just now thought and defined as decompensation and unbalanced, which was wanted after the European elections. Things have gone a lot differently. We all know that the referendum that Renzi wanted, before which he announced that he would withdraw from politics in the event of a negative outcome, ended with a result of six to four. Let's put it this way. We know that the Constitutional Court has declared italicum illegitimate precisely at that point, in the double turn with the election of the President of the Council direct, as underlined also by President emeritus Napolitano, and the prize to the elected Premier. We also know that Renzi had to see a Silveri Gentiloni put there, when he had, in his opinion, momentarily moved away from Palazzo Chigi, to keep the place warm and that instead he credited himself, earning the support of the President of the Republic, the esteem of many representatives of the European Union and even of the European Central Bank that, as we all know, is a power that counts. I mean, the devil puts his tail in it. In the world there are not only politics and tactics, but also the continuity of institutions and laws, personal relationships and many things. And then of course there is the sovereign people who expressed themselves with that six to four. Here then Renzi's parable, which started with the demolition, sees him at some point becoming the constituent father of a new Italian Republic. When I told Renzi that no country of Western democracy had a law like Italicum and that therefore the professors who had advised him - Ceccanti and D'Alimonte - were wrong, he immediately understood and said: no other country has it, but everyone will imitate it. This is not the case: we cannot destroy the institutional systems ad libitum. From this type of narration, we finally moved on to another, that is to say to the return of Ghino di Tacco. The fundamental problem of the next legislature will in fact be to have a group of faithful, with whom "to sell dear the skin," to place the duty on all others, to be the element that cannot govern, but that prevents others from governing and therefore has a very strong power of ban. As many Members have said, it is possible that the Constitutional Court may declare the electoral law illegitimate when we examine it. Firstly, for a very simple reason, that is because, if the voter votes for the single candidate, his vote will automatically be transferred in proportion to the blocked lists. If, therefore, the voter does not want to vote in proportion with the blocked lists, his vote will be transferred in proportion to the vote of others. It seems to me that this is a betrayal of the freedom to vote. If, on the other hand, a voter decides to vote only for a short list of proportional votes, for example, if a Venetian elector of Forza Italia wanted to vote for this list, but not for the Legist candidate in the single college, he could not do so, because his vote would also apply to the Legist candidate of the college: this, in my opinion, is already a reason for unconstitutionality. Another very serious reason was highlighted by President Giorgio Napolitano, when he said that one thing is trust, which, as President Grasso knows, had been placed on the electoral law also in 1953 by De Gasperi, even if in particular conditions, after a very hard battle, another thing is the preventive, generalized confidence, which absolutely prevents the emendability of such law. In that case, there is a democratic power, that of the Government, which overrides another power, that of Parliament. Again, there is a very serious constitutional objection. If the electoral law before us were declared unconstitutional - and it would be the third in a short time - we would also go towards an ungovernable and once again delegitimized Parliament. I share the concerns of those who say that continuing with this anti-parliamentary spirit is damaging Italy, because there is no alternative. In revolutionary moments it was imagined that the Soviet could take the place of delegated democracy - just yesterday Senator Tronti recalled October 17 - but today this alternative is not there. It is'shooting' on Parliament and all its faults are attributed to it, but we do not see those very serious parties - in this regard Senator Bocchino has made a good intervention today - and, of course, there is a risk of destroying and not building. I want to conclude my speech with a note: it is not necessary for this to happen, because, even with the worst electoral law, the people in the end are always sovereign and it is possible that they will rebel against this type of imposition. Today I saw in the daily newspaper "La Repubblica" a table according to which the PD would risk not even taking a seat in the North and the South. I address my colleagues in the Democratic Party, with whom I was elected almost five years ago and with whom I worked, often building relationships of esteem and personal friendship, telling them to be careful. Today I can call them comrades: after Senator Mario Tronti, yesterday, did that intervention on the October Revolution I think and hope that this epithet does not displease them. Well, be careful companions, because it is also possible to "die of trust." It is also possible that the game is clear outside this House and that voters choose what they call a sanction vote in France, or punish this repeated arrogance. [[Applause from the Misso-SI-SEL Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-905.ana.u78	On behalf of the Assembly, I greet the teachers and students of the Istituto comprensivo "Notaresco" in the province of Teramo, who are attending our work. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-905.ana.u79	Senator Taverna is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-905.ana.u80	Mr President, I had the opportunity to listen to President Napolitano's speech and a passage left me particularly perplexed. I am referring to when the President admitted in this House that the President of the Council Gentiloni Silveri had pressure to come to the decision to impose five votes of confidence on the electoral law to the Senate Assembly. I find it a little cowardly to talk about sin and not the sinner. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] Who is putting pressure on the President-in-Office of the Council? It would be appropriate at such a delicate moment in the democratic life of this country to have a clearer vision. It is incomprehensible why this electoral law, which has a majority in Parliament in its favour (because it is good for Forza Italia, Lega, PD and Autonomie), should be voted with confidence. This electoral law is good for everyone, but no one wants to vote for it. It is a bit of a game of never being blamed on the paternity of the crap that has been done in Parliament's classrooms on time with confidence because, at the end of the day, the Democratic Party is afraid of the free shooters. Then Forza Italia comes out, the League derails and we give the country an electoral law that everyone wants, but that recognizes no one. I find it very unhonorable, even to the detriment of those who have to justify it in some way. I can understand the League that made its "agreement" to take four more seats in Northern Italy and goes home happy, despite having completely betrayed whatever form of agreement it had made with its voters. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] I saw her for four years in here hurling against Forza Italia and then sitting next to it as soon as they proposed to him to do something because the Italians must understand that, whoever will vote, they will give the vote to the only four political forces that are actually in Parliament: PD, Forza Italia, Lega and Movimento 5 Stars. So, League and Forza Italia, who seemingly do not agree on anything, are available. I also say this to Mr Orellana, who should read the electoral bill better because, when he says that the coalition that we will vote will be the one that will be presented to the government, he shows that he has not understood anything about the measure in our examination because it is the exact opposite. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] The coalition that we will vote for will be anything but what they want those who will vote when they have capitalized the "voticchio" of the hunter, the animalist, the retired and the entrepreneur all together. On the one hand, the League says it wants to eliminate the Fornero Act on Retirement and, on the other, there is Forza Italia, with the entrepreneurs, who perhaps this law is fine with; today we have seen that for five more months of life expectancy we will have to work five more months. They don't let you enjoy them! If you try harder, you work harder. It's not that if you fall more, you can enjoy a few more days of peace. No, you used to retire at sixty - six years and a few months; now, with five more months of life expectancy, you retire at sixty - seven years. These are the laws that you have handed over to us and that you will continue to propose. Since this electoral law will allow only a breakfast between PD and Forza Italia to continue to govern, these are the laws that await the country. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] What do you think changes tomorrow when we vote? Italians, what do you imagine can change? It's always just them. Mr President, yesterday we occupied the benches of the government, but it is not a gesture for which I particularly appreciate myself, but these are extreme actions driven by impotence. I have heard every colleague here make it clear that this bill is unconstitutional and unfair and that it does not allow us to vote freely, but everyone does not care, including you, Mr President. She had a chance to stop her. He could resign and go premier with MDP. It would restore dignity to the left! [[Applause from the M5S Group]] He could have done something! Nothing. You are all immobile and still witnessing the destruction of Italy and we are forced by despair to carry out actions of which we are not proud. I don't give a damn about sitting there and blocking your jobs, but you don't even want us to talk anymore. Impotence and despair are two feelings that run through the country and are dangerous, because they will turn against this political class. Mr President, this is not a threat, but a promise, because that is what we will do, starting with going out of this House, into the streets, where there are citizens who are trying to say that they are neither blind nor dumb nor deaf. That's how you want it, but there's no more deaf in here than you don't want to hear. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-905.ana.u81	Especially when the meaning of the institutions must be expressed. Senator Gasparri is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-905.ana.u82	Mr President, the Forza Italia Group, as you know, is in favour of this electoral law. The House and Senate Regulations are different, so the vote of confidence, which here also absorbs the one on the subject on the article, will not see us participate in a favorable way to the Government, for a question of clarity of our position in the alternative relationship of opposition to the Government. After that, the final vote is another matter and in the House - where, as colleagues know, the vote of confidence is then followed by the vote of merit - we have been able to differentiate our attitude. The situation is therefore very clear for us: no to trust, but to share the law. We will regulate how the rules of the Rules of Procedure allow us to make a situation of confusion, without feeding, with votes of unnecessary or improper confidence, because then the electorate must understand that one thing is the rules and one thing is the political merit. I will say a few things about the electoral law. Is it perfect? No. First, we have heard a number of comments on both the method, as regards the vote of confidence, and the merit, on the split vote or not. We experimented with all the electoral laws, because even at the time of Mattarellum, which was similar to this one (although the dosage of two thirds and a third was the opposite, because it was the single part to be more numerous, while the proportional one was smaller and there was the split vote), there were confusions and controversy about the detachment and the owl lists. At one point, in an election round, my political side took so many of those votes that we couldn't even get the full number of MPs elected. Of perfect laws in the world, therefore, I have never seen them, and here is also Minister Finocchiaro who in turn has extensive experience in the field. Even in the Italian debate, I have heard the French system, of which there are fans here too, as a marvel: I remember that not now, but years ago, when Mitterrand was at the Elysée and the Gaullist governments, the French system determined a cohabitation, because the staggered elections of the Assembly and the Presidency of the Republic had determined this coexistence. The United States has a presidentialist system, of which I am a supporter, because presidentialism gives wide powers to the presidents, who often live together with Congresses of different orientation, because the mid-term elections sometimes determine a variable course of democracy. On the German system, then, we were made a head like this all our lives: That's what's good, what strength! For twenty years the German system has been invoked, which for the third time, if I am not mistaken, forces a cohabitation. This happens in democracy, in fact, if the strong parties - or theoretically such - become less so and the people choose others. We have also seen it in Italy: new political formations have been created, which I do not share or appreciate, but which are an expression of the democracy that votes, so they exist because of a sacrosanct principle. In Germany, then, we may have a coalition or not: we will see what Chancellor Merkel will do. With reference to the English system, I remember Marco Pannella's campaigns that spoke of a dry single name, the real one, without proportional recovery, without anything. In the end, even the English system has worn out and I don't even know what happened to the conservatives who won: we left them chasing after some elected Irish - or Welsh, I don't remember exactly - to have the majority in one of the two chambers. So, ladies and gentlemen, the perfect electoral system in the world is not there, otherwise it would be enough to send an e-mail from one country to another saying what it is and everyone could take it back. After all, it is a rule, because the electoral system is like a car: it is a means, not an end. The perfect electoral system, I mean, it's not there. We will see this new system of ours as it will be, because it is also the result of a compromise, since an agreement has been sought, according to everyone's wish. With regard to the overlapping of similar and not different electoral systems, as President Mattarella has said several times, voting with the Consultellum would certainly have been worse than it would have been to vote with this new system. We'll see if it's perfect - in that case we'll "patent" it and send it all over the world - or if it reveals some shortcomings, as it could. Politically, there are those who say that this law prepares the compromise. This morning I saw that a poller, Weber, who is never generous in numbers with regard to the centre of the right, since his predictions are generally less and less consistent with the reality of our consents, said in a television show that in his opinion, in the state, the centre of the right could also have an absolute majority of consents. We will find out when we vote and no one can imagine that the electoral law is made up of its own model. Whoever did it - and we all did it in alternate stages - then found himself making an electoral law that made the opponents win. But that is the beauty of democracy: the nonpredictability of outcomes. I hope, therefore, that my centre-right side will have a majority, but we do not decide that here, others will decide. As I conclude, Mr President, I would like to make a few remarks which are not out of line but which are related to electoral laws and democracy. Yesterday Professor Tronti, a senator who respected his culture and role, took the opportunity to commemorate the centenary of the October Revolution. Personally, I'm kind of impressed. There is no question of conferences, initiatives: it is an important moment in the history of the world and things must all be studied and discussed. Frankly, I found it a little strange that he had a micro-debate and I thank Senator Mario Mauro, who took the floor to restore some facts of truth. Now Senator Tronti, who has followed the work of the morning, is not present, but I say it with absolute respect: it would have been better to have a good debate in this House; I am always for the debate on everything, on the October Revolution, on what you want: this is a democratic Assembly and must be able to discuss everything. I found, however, a little unusual the celebratory spirit; moreover, Senator Tronti, legitimately from his point of view, said to be the son of that story. So it could be -- with a joke -- cousin of Pol Pot? I don't think so, because between Pol Pot and Tronti the difference is absolutely obvious to me, so I don't want to share it. But I tell Professor Tronti that all totalitarianism must be banned. Today we would not have the debate on the electoral law - beautiful or ugly, ladies and gentlemen, but it is an electoral law, people will vote - if they had won the totalitarianisms of the last century, all totalitarianism. We are talking in hours when the whole of Italy rightly condemns some drinkable and intolerable forms of Nazi propaganda, but it would be worth it if we talked about other totalitarianisms. Some called the law the "fascistellum," on the contrary, they said that the way to vote before was almost more democratic. All totalitarianism must be banned, of all colors and orientation. I do not speak, therefore, in the name of a part, but frankly I advise Professor Tronti to reread the original edition of "Le livre noir du communisme" (Le livre noir du communisme), the black book of communism, which came out in France - this is the authentic edition, then it was reprinted also in Italy, but Professor Tronti is so cultured that he could read it in French, that it is more elegant, even if there is in Italian - to remember that, like other tragedies which in these hours we are talking about, remembering the extermination, the Holocaust and everything else, for the unfortunate events that have occurred, even that revolution of which Tronti feels son today would not allow us to have a debate on the electoral law, because there would not have been the electoral possibility. Even with other totalitarianisms it would have been the same. MARTON (M5S). If it's passed, the electoral law. Gasparri (FI-PdL XVII). I am talking about the contemporary world, the electoral law that has not yet been passed, so if it is passed. Frankly I found this reenactment questionable, even when it was said that it was made in homage to some constituent Fathers. I do not want to open at this time, on a particular day, the debate on Togliatti, who was in Russia while the Italians were killed; even some Father of the Homeland was stepfather of the Homeland at some times. I would like it to remain in the acts that it is right to remember and discuss history, but that story, if it had been successful, would not have brought democracy, like other stories: the millions of deaths, the massacres that have occurred must not be forgotten. So, pleased Senator Tronti to be a son of that story, glad that today there is a free Parliament in which everyone can disagree, even by making demonstrations outside, if they happen peacefully. In fact, there have been a few, Mr President, which are a little unpathetic, because it is not nice, ladies and gentlemen, to put pictures of people and to point them out, as some colleagues from your Group have done. Dismiss also with rites: we talk about the October Revolution, jump to the next one, the Maoist one. There may be controversy or manifestation, there would be no other; who of us did not disagree, but east modus in rebus. I hope, then, that Senator Tronti will have time to reread some important books and say that perhaps it is better to be children of democracy and not of the October Revolution. [[Applause from the FI-PdL XVIIe Group of Senators Di Giacomo and Giovanardi.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-905.ana.u83	He's enlisted to speak Senator Zavoli. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-905.ana.u84	Mr President, I was struck by the fact that a representative of the 5 Star Movement, I believe, after having exhausted a number of more significant curiosities, thought to ask me publicly how I felt about the serious issue we are debating. I would like to start with yesterday's speech by the illustrious colleague who also started some seemingly accessory digression, if only because it was collected by the newspapers with the intention of linking phenomena, events, experiences far away to something that has the quality to resist the things that we are debating these days, for the truth with the difficulty of finding a sort of memory of ways to represent ideas, hustle and bustle and passions linked to the value of our discussion. I believe and hope to be among the senators who yesterday deepened the speech of Senator Mario Tronti, reflecting on the cherished and nevertheless lucid need of our illustrious colleague to awaken something of himself, which to a certain extent finds vague assonances in the issues on which we have been implaced for some time. I am referring to the seemingly unruly incipit of an intervention that started with the reasons for his ancient political and ideal passion. It is for the same reason that today, converted by the contemporaryity of scenarios abyssally distant from each other, the philosopher dedicates himself to manifesting his ideas about politics in a way not distant, nor renegatory, of things lived in his younger life, when it seemed that the destiny of humanity was being measured through a political event that had ended up becoming universal, so much so that it left the signs of its manifestation, even in very different forms in many parts of the planet. Senator Tronti's, to be honest, seemed more to me than a speech a sort of secular confession. It crossed the unchanged need in time to dedicate its public life to the value of a moral origin never completely removed from the fatal corrections of history, beginning to dedicate a vocation full of a sort - pass me the expression - of rational redemption that accompanied it in the following of a laborious attitude to respect for error, to which history, but also philosophy reserves the most drastic respect, to say, that only rational is real. Here is the lesson not pronounced by Senator Tronti, except in order to recognize that the idea of error, in our fleeting daily history, must lead us to preserve that general wealth that is the doubt, that is, the intelligence of confrontation, contrast, distinction, the three signs of the critical proceeding of thought, to guarantee that the only opposing reasons do not prevail. And here I care about the brave and penetrating wisdom of Giorgio Napolitano. His invitation just now, heard in the strongest silence, to rediscover the unspeakable value of the community, with the democratic reserves, together, of sharing and opposition. His was a vital civil wisdom, cultivated in the culture of diversity and debate, that is to say the premises and the stigma of freedom. I improvised a few notes, because I felt obliged to give an answer to my colleague who perhaps asked to know the opinion of a ninety-four-year-old man who has always favoured the policy of dialogue. I confess that I have a particular attitude to the question of doubt. Even the most rebellious people, less prone to the dialectic of truth, contain within themselves, perhaps not perceiving its meaning, the instinct to pose a problem knowing that everything can be or become different. Change is no longer its complexity, but its speed. And we should resolve our issues by not abandoning ourselves to hastyness, summation, negligence and selfishness, rather than dedicating the attention, commitment and tension even moral and ethical that they deserve, since they are problems like those we have dealt with until today, as if we were no longer obliged to respect the need to live with others, to represent a civilization that moves, justifies and grows only in function of living it together. Don Milani said that politics is getting out of it together.He didn't mean a generic thing or just a virtuous thing, he simply meant that each of us is half of what should be, that the other half is the other. When asked - excuse me if I entertain a particular staff that has no relevance to your knowledge, but I am led to repeat it to myself - what I wanted to do to RAI, I said that I would like to dedicate myself to interviews. The director, then Piccone Stella, was amazed and, indulgent in the smile with which he welcomed my extravagance, he could not help but ask me: But who would want to interview? He thought I could allude to who knows which characters, and I just said, I don't know frankly, I'd like to interview anyone. He probably had to abandon the bonomy and, won by curiosity, wanted to know who the other ones were. I merely said, perhaps a little clumsyly, that the others were all the people I met, knowing that if you meet a person, and talk to them, and this person discovers that you take care of his thoughts, his joys and his defeats, you have somehow awakened a life. You never come out completely free from knowing and understanding another person, from getting together to see things, to judge them and to try to find an alley that you cross - why not? - So does the soul. And so I began to do that distant profession, which led me to discover and to keep alive within me the relationship, not virtuous, neither addictive, nor only curious, with the reality of the other. This is also true when, as yesterday, I even thought that a controversial reaction was disproportionate, which would have had a serious foundation if it could have been interpreted in different ways and tones. Here too the reason for the doubt has intervened, having gradually nourished the idea that no one can say that he does not need anyone. The other is your half from time to time. An idea of the Napolitano community gathered it, talking about the complexity of the topic, its articulations also of historical character because it wanted to recall past experiences. There are those who thought they could formulate some remarks that called into question his coerencies, at least in politics, but that of Napolitano was an absolutely impeccable intervention in my opinion. I was relieved that I had to give an answer to my colleague, Mrs Grillina, who asked me to tell her why I would vote for confidence. They are exactly these: interpreting the new that this still misguided operation has produced, there is, however, something that helps to provide us with the elements to review our persuasions; there was again the doubt that some reasons militate to the same extent, even among those with different opinions. This will concern the sense of being here, in this House, which is not deaf or gray at all, but risks becoming so weak, so disenchanted, so out of reality. Instead, I think it's a good reason for not taking all things seriously, even those that we think are only instrumental. I hope that this circumstance will serve to recreate a climate that must correspond to the seriousness and dignity of this place, to maintain that credibility that has allowed us to overcome tragic experiences in democracy; populism is a damnation, but this awareness is an additional reason to become more generous, helpful and attentive to listening: one never comes out free from the objection that comes to us from a interlocutor. We need this intellectual, moral, ethical biodiversity; the same word "ethics" needed to be renewed. Something will also arise from the errors of this moment. However, I feel some tiredness, I feel it, and I think I suffer like all of you. I have great esteem and respect for the unspeakable value of the constancy and patience expressed by the President of the Senate and I wonder if there is not a very serious reason to review, even in the name of the personal seriousness of each of us, the issues that keep us away, as if we were here to make a war, instead of seeking a social, civil, cultural peace. So much so that Giorello, a scientist, among other things non-believer, talking about ethics said that we must free this word from this so abstract and virtuous sentiment. It must be accepted that the voices that contradict that rigor can also be heard in ethics. There is a great need for novelty. I believe that if we decide to be part of a world that is saved only by uniting and uniting forces, we can restore the perilous prestige of this democracy. We still have time to put things right, and we will not have to believe that, when this matter is resolved by a vote of confidence, it is therefore resolved itself. The question remains standing, with all the load of lost time, the free offenses and the need here and there to look for the spaces of populism that have the clamorous demands, the exasperated manifestations, that end up encouraging the right redundancy of the square. So much so that I remembered Luther King, who had the courage to shout: I beg you to be indignant. That's something I would have liked to hear yesterday from someone. It was another story, very different, but I hoped they all remembered it yesterday, even here. [[Applause from the PD Group, from the Senators Berger, Bonfrisco, Carraro and Liuzzi and from the benches of the Government. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-905.ana.u85	He's enlisted to speak Senator Mirabelli. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-905.ana.u86	Mr President, in the House a few months ago, not us but others chose to blow up an electoral law drawn on the German model. There was a broad agreement on that law. That law was blown because someone, contrary to what he had committed to do, decided to vote on an amendment to the agreed text, demonstrating a strange idea of political agreements and thinking that when one is made then you can decide - freely and unilaterally - what it is worth supporting and what is not. That vote, however, did not undermine the reasons for adopting an electoral bill in Parliament, the result of a broad agreement between the forces present in the two chambers. The reasons that the President of the Republic has often called us to remain in the field. There was and there is a need for an electoral law that homogenizes the systems of the House and Senate in order to reduce ungovernability. There was and there is a need for a law to restore strength to gender representation. There was and there is a need for an electoral law made by Parliament and not for it to be found in the judgments of the Constitutional Court. Some of those who are today shouting at the scandal and accusing us of iniqucio and of making an electoral law that favors it for months have accused us of not wanting to do the law in order to favor the ungovernability and the inciucium. Today, the same people accuse us of having made an electoral law to encourage the incision. In fact, we have never stopped working to respond to the right calls of the Head of State, looking at the interest of the country. Today we are in the Chamber with a bill approved in the Chamber of Deputies with - I would like to stress to those who give us lessons in democracy - a number of consensus that has never been in Parliament on an electoral bill. I think we need to think. Other than calling to dictatorship; we are faced with a bill shared by the majority and an important part of the opposition. In the past days I've heard about exversion, fascism and revolt of consciences and I've heard: you're like Mussolini and even worse. I find dissent legitimate and it is not up to me to judge the forms in which one chooses to express it. However, as someone said, words are important and I urge everyone to reflect on the fact that the day, which we hope will never come, in which there was a real risk for democracy, we risk having no more words if we abuse them now, emptying them of meaning. By the way, I do not know how consistent it is with democratic culture to think that those who vote differently do so only if they are blackmailed or bought with a seat. That is what we and all those who will vote in favour of this draft law have been accused of. Of course, this electoral law is not ours. We needed and needed an electoral law in which voters can choose who governs and which guarantees to those chosen by voters the possibility of having in Parliament the votes necessary to govern. However, there is no majority in Parliament to vote on the law that we would like. However, this is a good law, the law that is possible today, which introduces an important majority share, favouring the aggregation of forces that share proposals and projects for the future and reducing the risks of ungovernability. This is a law that, at the same time, guarantees the representation of gender and, in any case, the representation of territories. It is a law built by looking at the judgments of the Constitutional Court, which, with the prediction of the uninomial colleges, guarantees the possibility of choosing representatives of its territory and of knowing and choosing, therefore, the candidates of the lists of plurinomial colleges. To those who shout at the scandal, theorizing that only preferences allow the choice of citizens, I would like to remind you, first of all, that the agreement we all made on the German system provided for the blocked capilists. Secondly, in a part of the country, preferences can allow, as we have all too often seen, conditions that have little to do with the freedom of choice and freedom of voters. This is the moment, as President Napolitano also recalled, of responsibility. It is not the time of propaganda, when, after criminalising the secret vote, today it is theorized that it should become the rule and is proposed forty-eight. We need a new electoral law, made by Parliament. It will soon be defeated by those who, on the other hand, do not want a law, as demonstrated by sinking the German system and saying everything and its opposite, in order to leave things as they are. [[Comments from Senator Bottici.]] I repeat, this is the best law possible in this Parliament. To do so, each of its supporters, each of those who vote for it has given up something. All together, however, a large majority of this Parliament has prevailed and we will make the country's interest prevail. As the Leader of the 5 Star Movement asked, there will be a trace of this discussion. There will be a trace and it will be the one left by a majority and a large part of the opposition who, as should be done about the rules, shared this electoral law and assumed the responsibility to do so. [[Applause from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-905.ana.u87	I declare closed the joint debate on trust issues raised by the Government. I suspend the sitting until 2 p.m. (The sitting was suspended at 13.32 a.m. and resumed at 14.02 p.m.) We shall now proceed to the vote on Article 1 of Law No 2941, in the text approved by the House of Deputies, on the approval of which the Government has raised the question of trust.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-905.ana.u88	I refer to the vote on Article 1 of Law No 2941, in the text approved by the Chamber of Deputies, on the approval of which the Government has raised the question of trust. I recall that pursuant to Rule 94, second paragraph, of the Constitution and pursuant to Rule 161, paragraph 1, of the Rules of Procedure, the vote on the matter of trust will take place by roll-call vote. Each senator called by the Senator Secretary will have to vote before the Presidency. The senators for trust will answer yes; the opposing senators will answer no; the senators who intend to abstain will speak accordingly. They asked to vote first, and I granted it, Senators Della Widow and Faithful. I urge the Senator Secretary to proceed to the appeal of these senators. (The above-mentioned senators respond to the appeal.) I now draw by lot the name of the senator from whom the roll call will begin. (The name of Senator Marino Mauro Maria is drawn by lot). I invite the Senator Secretary to proceed with the appeal, starting with Senator Marino Mauro Maria. AMATI, secretary, makes the appeal. [[During the passage under the Presidency to express the vote: Senator Cotti tears a file of the bill; Senator Crimi covers his eyes and mouth with a white blindfold. Applause from Senator Paglini. Exchange of apostrophes between Senators Russo and Cioffi. Comments from PD and M5S Groups.]] PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Excuse me, even during the appeal? [[Comments from Senators Crimes and Airola.]] Please avoid provocations and reactions. AIROLA (M5S). Russo, you're a provocateur! PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. So, what are we gonna do? Can we go ahead or should we suspend the session? [[Senator Crimi's comments.]] Senator Crimes, don't yell at me like that. You want the megaphone? We try to avoid provocations and reactions. We have to keep going. Otherwise, we'll do the night. (Exchange of apostrophes between Senators Santangelo and Russo). Senator Santangelo, please. CARDINALI (PD). Where are you going? AIROLA (M5S). Russo's been taunting since yesterday! PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator Airola, calm down. Can we move on? I'm asking for a little silence, because you can't hear her calling. PUGLIA (M5S). It's still Russo! [[At the time of the vote, Senator Giarrusso addresses an offensive gesture at the address of the benches to the right of the hemicycle. Comments from the ALA-SCCLP Group.]] BUCCARELLA (M5S). President, that is unacceptable! PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. What are these stadium choirs? BUCCARELLA (M5S). How dare you! PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. We're gonna get him back. [[Comments from the M5S Group.]] Colleagues, let's suspend voting for a moment. [[Live comments from Senator Lucidi.]] Senator Lucidi, I'm calling you back to order. SANTANGELO (M5S). It's Russo! Mr Russo (PD). But who calls to order, if they've been doing this for two hours! PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator Russo, I'll call you back to order. [[Comments from PD and M5S Groups. Exchange of apostrophes between Senators Lezzi, Cardinals and Borioli.]] Borioli (PD). You've been insulting people for four years, Lezzi. Rude! Without tidying up anything! PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator Borioli, please, I'll call you back to order. Colleagues, what should we do? Should we continue or should we suspend the session? For one thing, be quiet! [[Comments from the M5S Group.]] MORONESE (M5S). Just don't insult them and we can keep going. We're here to vote. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Shut up, or you won't hear the call. I ask all my colleagues, of any party or faction, first of all to sit in their seats. CIOFFI (M5S). You haven't seen anything yet! PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. The presence of senators standing in the centre of the hemicycle is allowed to facilitate the time of the vote. If, however, this is to create verbal and physical clashes, then let everyone go to his place and approach the bench of the Presidency at the time of the vote, with the times he will need. We'll do it later, but it doesn't matter. Here we are. [[Applause from the PD Group]] Either you proceed in a disciplined manner or everyone is sitting in their own place and each one gets up when he is called. It's up to you. Consensus or dissent can also be manifested from one's own place. We already have. Let's decide what to do. Let's try to move on. It's evidence. Montevecchi (M5S). Talk to them! (Indicating the Senators of the ALA-SCCLP Group). (Senator Secretary calls Senator Lezzi.) Mr Lezzi (M5S). No, head up! Never with Verdini! [[Applause from the M5S Group]] Mr Manconi (PD). Analphabeta! PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Let the censorship of Senator Lezzi be recorded. It cannot be expressed in this way. [[Comments from the M5S Group.]] Mr Lezzi (M5S). Censorship to me and not to those? (Indicating the benches of the ALA-SCLP Group). PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator Lezzi, you're not voting anymore. (Senator Secretary picks her up.) (At the time of the vow, Senator Lucidi covers his eyes and mouth with a white blindfold.) Senators say yes: Aiello, Albano, Albertini, Amati, Amoruso, Angioni, Anitori, Astorre Barani, Bencini, Bertuzzi, White, Bonaiuti, Bondi, Borioli, Broglia, Buemi Caleo, Cantini, Capacchione, Cardinals, Chiavaroli, Cirinna, Cociancich, Collina, Colucci, Compagnone, Conte, Cucca D'Adda, Dalla Zuanna, D'Anna, D'Ascola, D'Ascola, De Biasi, Del Barba, Della Vedova, Di Biagio, Di Giorgi, D'Onghia Esposito Lucia, Esposito Stefano Fabbri, Falanga, Fasiolo, Fattorini, Favero, Fedeli, Ferrara Elena, Filippin, Finocchiaro, Fissore, Formigoni, Fravezzi Gambaro, Gentile, Giac, Giacone, Giaveno, Giacino, Giaveno, Giaveno, Giaveno, Giaveno, Giocino, Giaveno, Giaveno, Giaveno, Giaveno, Giaveno, Giotto, Giaveno, Giaveno, Giotto, Giotto, Giotto, Giaveno, Lombardi (Senators Chiti, Manconi, Micheloni, Cucchetti, Ruta, Tocci and Turano declare that they do not participate in the vote) PRESIDENT. I declare the vote closed and invite the Secretary Senators to proceed with the counting of votes. (Secretary Senators proceed to count votes). I declare the result of the roll-call vote by appeal of Article 1 of Law No 2941, in the text approved by the Chamber of Deputies, on the approval of which the Government has put the question of trust: [[Senators present 219 Senators voting 211 Majority 106 Favorables 150 Contrars 61]] The Senate approves. All the amendments and agendas presented in Article 1 of Law No 2941 are therefore not included. We shall now proceed to the vote on Article 2 of Law No 2941, in the text approved by the House of Deputies, on the approval of which the Government has raised the question of trust.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-905.ana.u89	I refer to the vote on Article 2 of Law No 2941, in the text approved by the Chamber of Deputies, on the approval of which the Government has raised the question of trust. I recall that pursuant to Rule 94, second paragraph, of the Constitution and pursuant to Rule 161, paragraph 1, of the Rules of Procedure, the vote on the matter of trust will take place by roll-call vote. Each senator called by the Senator Secretary will have to vote before the Presidency. The senators for trust will answer yes; the opposing senators will answer no; the senators who intend to abstain will speak accordingly. She asked to vote first, and I granted it, Senator Di Giorgi. I urge the Senator Secretary to proceed with the appeal of this senator. (The said senator responds to the appeal.) I now draw by lot the name of the senator from whom the roll call will begin. (The name of Senator Puglia is drawn by lot.) I invite the Senator Secretary to proceed with the appeal, starting with Senator Puglia. SAGGESE, secretary, makes the appeal. [[At the time of Senator Verdini's vote, ironic applause from the Group Art.1-MDP Reply]] Yes, the senators: Aiello, Albano, Albertini, Amati, Amoruso, Angioni, Anitori, Astorre Barani, Bencini, Berger, Bertuzzi, White, Bonaiuti, Bondi, Borioli, Buemi Caleo, Cantini, Capacchione, Cardinals, Chiavaroli, Cirinna, Cociancich, Collina, Colucci, Compagnone, Conte, Cucca D'Adda, Dalla Tor, Dalla Zuanna, D'Anna, D'Ascola, D'Ascola, De Biasi, Del Barba, Della Vedova, Di Biagio, Di Giorgi, D'Onghia Esposito Lucia, Esposito Stefano Fabbri, Falanga, Fasiolo, Fattorini, Favero, Fedeli, Ferrara Elena, Filippin, Finocchiaro, Fisore, Formigoni, Fravezzi Gambarbo, Gentile, Jacobo, Gentile, Giantini, Giantini, Giantini, Giantini, Faveno, Lombardi, Lombardi, Lombardi, Lombardi, Lombardi, Lombardi, The senators: Airola Barozzino, Battista, Bertacco, Bertorotta, Bignami, Blundo, Bocchino, Bottici, Bubbico, Bubbico, Bulgarelli Campanella, Cappelletti, Casaletto, Casson, Castaldi, Catalfo, Cervellini, Ciampolilo, Cioffi, Corsini, Cotti De Cristofaro, De Petris, De Pin, Donno Endrizzi Fattori, Fornaro Gaetti, Gatti, Giarrusso, Girotto, Gotor, Granaiola, Guerra Lezzi, Lo Moro, Lucidi Martelli, Martoni, Migliavacca, Mineo, Montevecchi, Moronese, Morra, Mussini Pagini, Pegorer, Petraglia, Petrocelli, Puglia Ricchiuti Santangelo, Scibona, Serra, Simeoni Taverna Vacciano Zin. (Senators Chiti, Manconi, Micheloni, Cucchetti, Ruta, Tocci and Turano declare that they do not participate in the vote) - 3.32 p.m.). PRESIDENT. - The debate is I declare the vote closed and invite the Secretary Senators to proceed with the counting of votes. (Secretary Senators proceed to count votes). I declare the result of the roll-call vote by appeal of Article 2 of Law No 2941, in the text approved by the Chamber of Deputies, on the approval of which the Government has put the question of trust: [[Senators present 220 Senators voting 212 Majority 107 Favorable 151 Contrari 61]] The Senate approves. All the amendments tabled in Article 2 of Law No 2941 are therefore excluded. We shall now proceed to the vote on Article 3 of Law No 2941, in the text approved by the House of Deputies, on the approval of which the Government has raised the question of trust.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-905.ana.u90	I refer to the vote on Article 3 of Law No 2941, in the text approved by the Chamber of Deputies, on the approval of which the Government has raised the question of trust. I recall that pursuant to Rule 94, second paragraph, of the Constitution and pursuant to Rule 161, paragraph 1, of the Rules of Procedure, the vote on the matter of trust will take place by roll-call vote. Each senator called by the Senator Secretary will have to vote before the Presidency. The senators for trust will answer yes; the opposing senators will answer no; the senators who intend to abstain will speak accordingly. I now draw by lot the name of the senator from whom the roll call will begin. (The name of Senator Crosio is drawn by lot). I invite the Senator Secretary to proceed with the appeal, starting with Senator Crosio. AMATI, secretary, makes the appeal. [[At the time of Senator Verdini's vote, ironic applause from the M5S and Art.1-MDP Groups.]] MILO (ALA-SCLP). Until April! Senators say yes: Aiello, Albano, Albertini, Amati, Amoruso, Angioni, Anitori, Astorre Barani, Bencini, Bertuzzi, White, Bonaiuti, Bondi, Borioli, Broglia, Buemi Caleo, Cantini, Capacchione, Cardinals, Chiavaroli, Cirinna, Cociancich, Collina, Colucci, Compagnone, Conte, Cucca D'Adda, Dalla Zuanna, D'Anna, D'Ascoli, D'Ascoli, De Biasi, Del Barba, Della Vedova, Di Biagio, Di Giorgi, D'Onghia Esposito Lucia, Esposito Stefano Fabbri, Falanga, Fasilori, Fasilani, Ferrara Elena, Filippin, Finocchiaro, Fissore, Formigoni, Fravezzi Gambaro, Gentile, Jacoba, Fado, Fattorini, Ginetti, Ginettio, Ginettio, Ginettio, Ginettio, Gilano, Gilano, Ginettio The senators: Airola Barozzino, Battista, Bertacco, Bertorotta, Bignami, Blundo, Bocchino, Bottici, Bubbico, Bubbico, Bulgarelli Campanella, Cappelletti, Casaletto, Casson, Castaldi, Catalfo, Cervellini, Ciampolilo, Cioffi, Cotti, Crimi De Cristofaro, De Petris, De Pin, Donno Endrizzi Fattori, Fornaro Gaetti, Gatti, Giarrusso, Girotto, Gotor, Granaiola, Guerra Lezzi, Lo Moro, Lucidi Martelli, Marton, Migliavacca, Mineo, Montevecchi, Moronese, Morra, Mussini Pagglini, Pegorer, Petraglia, Petrocelli, Puglia Ricchiuti Santangelo, Scibona, Serra, Simeoni Taverna Vacciano Zin. (Senators Chiti, Manconi, Micheloni, Cucchetti, Ruta, Tocci and Turano declare that they do not participate in the vote) PRESIDENT. I declare the vote closed and invite the Secretary Senators to proceed with the counting of votes. (Secretary Senators proceed to count votes). I declare the result of the roll-call vote by appeal of Article 3 of Law No 2941, in the text approved by the Chamber of Deputies, on the approval of which the Government has put the question of trust: [[Senators present 217 Senators voting 209 Majority 105 Favorables 148 Contrars 61]] The Senate approves. All the amendments and agendas presented in Article 3 of Law No 2941 are therefore not included. We shall now proceed to the vote on Article 4 of Law No 2941, in the text approved by the House of Deputies, on the approval of which the Government has raised the question of trust.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-905.ana.u91	I refer to the vote on Article 4 of Law No 2941, in the text approved by the Chamber of Deputies, on the approval of which the Government has raised the question of trust. I recall that pursuant to Rule 94, second paragraph, of the Constitution and pursuant to Rule 161, paragraph 1, of the Rules of Procedure, the vote on the matter of trust will take place by roll-call vote. Each senator called by the Senator Secretary will have to vote before the Presidency. The senators for trust will answer yes; the opposing senators will answer no; the senators who intend to abstain will speak accordingly. She asked to vote first, and I granted it, Senator Di Giorgi. I urge the Senator Secretary to proceed with the appeal of this senator. (The said senator responds to the appeal.) I now draw by lot the name of the senator from whom the roll call will begin. (The name of Senator Cioffi is drawn by lot.) I invite the Senator Secretary to proceed with the appeal, starting with Senator Cioffi. SAGGESE, secretary, makes the appeal. The senators: Aiello, Albano, Albertini, Amati, Amoruso, Angioni, Anitori, Astorre Barani, Bencini, Berger, Bertuzzi, White, Bianconi, Bondi, Borioli, Broglia, Buemi Caleo, Cantini, Capacchione, Cardinals, Casini, Chiavaroli, Cirinna, Cociancich, Collina, Colucci, Compagnone, Conte, Cucca D'Adda, Dalla Tor, Dalla Zuanna, D'Anna, D'Ascola, De Biasi, Del Barba, Della Vedova, Di Biagio, Di Giorgi, D'Onghia Esposito Lucia, Esposito Stefano Fabbari, Falanga, Fasiolo, Fattorini, Favero, Fideli, Ferrara Elena, Filippin, Fincchiaro, Fissore, Formigoni, Fravezzi Gambaro, Frangoni, Frangori, Frangori, Frangori, Frangori, Frangori, Falango, Fali, Falgno, Falgno, Familano, Familano, Fali, Familano, Fani, Familano, Familano, Familano, Fanti, Fanti The senators: Airola Barozzino, Battista, Bertacco, Bertorotta, Bignami, Blundo, Bocchino, Bottici, Bubbico, Bubbico, Bulgarelli Campanella, Cappelletti, Casaletto, Casson, Castaldi, Catalfo, Cervellini, Ciampolillo, Cioffi, Corsini, Cotti, Crimi De Cristofaro, De Petris, De Pin, Donno Endrizzi Fattori, Fornaro Gaetti, Gatti, Giarrusso, Girotto, Gotor, Granaiola, Guerra Lezzi, Lo Moro, Lucidi Martelli, Martion, Migliavacca, Mineo, Montevecchi, Moronese, Morra, Mussini Pagini, Pegorer, Petraglia, Petrocelli Ricchiuti Santangelo, Scibona, Serra, Simeoni Vacciano Zin. (Senators Manconi, Micheloni, Cucchetti, Ruta, Tocci and Turano declare that they do not participate in the vote) (In the course of the voting operations they assume the Presidency - at 16.35 -, at 17.11 -). PRESIDENT. - The debate is I declare the vote closed and invite the Secretary Senators to proceed with the counting of votes. (Secretary Senators proceed to count votes).
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-905.ana.u92	We greet the pupils, the pupils and the teachers of the Institute of Higher Education Da Vinci - De Giorgio in Lanciano, in the province of Chieti, who follow our work. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-905.ana.u93	I declare the result of the roll-call vote by appeal of Article 4 of Law No 2941, in the text approved by the Chamber of Deputies, on the approval of which the Government has put the question of trust: [[Senators present 217 Senators voting 210 Majority 106 Favorables 150 Contrars 60]] The Senate approves. All the amendments and agendas presented in Article 4 of bill No 2941 are therefore not included. We shall now proceed to the examination of Article 5, on which amendments have been tabled, which I would ask the authors to explain.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-905.ana.u94	Mr President, I do not know what we are voting on; I do not know whether we are voting on financial cover or on cover for shame. The new crowd of the Renzi-Verdini-Alfano government - we saw the new majority pass today - with the assistance of Salvini and Berlusconi, with the affixion of five trusts he buried the debate and threw a cement sarcophagus on Parliament.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-905.ana.u95	Senator Endrizzi, I remind you that you have the floor to explain Amendment 5.1.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-905.ana.u96	ENDRIZZI (M5S). Mr President, the matter is relevant. I'm talking about the nature of Article 5. They left this article like a microscopic flowerbed, a tree stunted in the parking lot of a hypermarket of cows. To ask for all these trusts you have to be credible. It's the first time I've ever trusted a person like you, but not because it's you, but because of what you represent. You represent the banks, the strong powers, you say one thing and you deny it the next day. You are a young boy but at the same time old, we are the opposite. Do you remember those words? These are the ones that Beppe Grillo pronounced in the face of the president elected by no one Matthew Renzi. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] You, on the other hand, continued to give him confidence when he humiliated the school, devastated the sea with oil drilling, precarious and subjugated the workers, abandoned the savers swindled precisely by the banks. On 4 December, the citizens sent him home for trying to destroy our Constitution. You have given continuity to his evil project and now you vote for the trust in an electoral bill that condemns you in the eyes of the Italians and of the whole civilized world. You had to put your trust in the whole bill. But no, because otherwise he would have returned to the House of Deputies and you are afraid of the elections in Sicily. I'm telling you, we're not voting on your laodole mirrors. The 5 Star Movement will leave this House right now. To the Sicilian citizens I say that their vote can change the course of things not only for their Region, but to save the whole of Italy. I know many of you are at the Pantheon. I'll meet you there and we'll talk freely. The institutions are you. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-905.ana.u97	The remainder of the amendment is set out. I call on the rapporteur and the representative of the Government to comment on the amendments under consideration.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-905.ana.u98	Mr President, the opinion is against both amendments to Article 5.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-905.ana.u99	Mr President, the Government's opinion is in line with that expressed by the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-905.ana.u100	Let us move on to Amendment 5.1, on which the 5th Commission has expressed its opposition under Article 81 of the Constitution. SANTANGELO (M5S). We are asking for the vote. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request for a vote is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). Pursuant to Rule 102- bis of the Rules of Procedure, I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of Amendment 5.1, tabled by Senator Endrizzi and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 5.2.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-905.ana.u101	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-905.ana.u102	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-905.ana.u103	CRIMI (M5S). Mr President, I rise in an explanation of vote on Amendment 5.1, and to do so I will be inspired by a script that some may know: the background of the evening Corriere: "Dialoghi in buvette," Barani and Roman actors, directed by Napolitano. In between the buvette and the salon Garibaldi (...) the blues are already in celebration. Even happier, if possible, are the senators of Verdini (...) There is confidence: yay! Denis' law is saved. AIROLA (M5S). It's Lucio Barani talking. CRIMI (M5S). We did the DNA to the son and we saw that we conceived him. AIROLA (M5S). Great poet. Nice metaphor. [[Applause from the M5S Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-905.ana.u104	Senator Airola, I invite you not to comment on Senator Crimi's speech.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-905.ana.u105	[[Senator Bulgarelli's comments.]] CRIMI (M5S). It's no bother, Mr. President. He goes on to say: "The Rosatellum is the same law that we deposited six months ago." AIROLA (M5S). When Verdini joined the majority. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator Airola, I've already called you back and I'm calling you back to order. You can't comment. If you wish to speak, ask for the floor. But you can't comment while another senator comes in. The two-voice surgery, with the choir and the commentary, we never did. That would be a first. CIOFFI (M5S). Mr President, this is the first time! There are so many first times. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. You don't pollute Senator Crimes' surgery. [[Comments from the M5S Group]] CRIMI (M5S). We say that we will keep the child by handing him the monthly check. We don't want him to die until the natural deadline. AIROLA (M5S). Now it's Paolo Romani's turn. CRIMI (M5S). Mr President, Senator Airola has read the article, so he knows the points. Paolo Romani says: "This law fulfills all our aspirations (...). There is the proportional system and there is the coalition, there are both colleges and short lists (...). If we take Sicily we arrive at Palazzo Chigi. These - I repeat - are the words of Paolo Romani. Someone asks him: why are you and Zanda inseparable? We feel many times a day, even on Sundays. [[Ironic comments from the M5S Group]] This law, after reading this script, is the fruit - and there is nothing to laugh about - of the orgy Verdini-Renzi-Berlusconi, with Zanda butler to hold the candle and Alfano to make the pole behind the door! [[Applause from the M5S Group]] The whole system has been activated to protect its own armchair and vitality. Cut off your vitality and not democracy! This is what you should do. Finally, President Grasso, we have addressed the appeal to him in many. Back in 1953, President Paratore, in response to the request for trust - after having granted it in spite of it, because he could not do otherwise - before it was voted, resigned and it was the Vice President who put it to the vote. This is the last chance, the last hope, the last chance to stop these abusers of Parliament. Mr President, don't make yourself an accomplice. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] On this law one of his predecessors, in the only case in the history of the Republic, resigned. If you were to do this, Mr President, today you could bring a medal to the chest and make sense of all this, including for Sicily, from which you come and which will be voting in the next few days. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-905.ana.u106	Senator Crimes, I don't need medals, but I have a sense of institutions. As everyone knows, the reason why I did not accept the candidacy in Sicily was to be able to continue, with a sense of the institutions, to carry out my function in this House. I think this is my job right now. [[Applause from the PD Group and Senator Casini]] My personal decisions are different. Right now, I'm the President of the Senate and I'm moving on with my assignment. Whatever my personal decisions and personal motivations are, I can say that it can also be harder to resist and continue, rather than abandon with a cowardly escape. [[Comments from the M5S Group]] Calm down! It's okay! You can express the malaise, but it is not said that, when you have the sense of the institutions, you have to obey your feelings. [[Senator Donno's comments.]] Is that clear?
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-905.ana.u107	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-905.ana.u108	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-905.ana.u109	SANTANGELO (M5S). Mr President, for the sake of the institutions, we ask that the vote be taken by simultaneous ballot by electronic means.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-905.ana.u110	I see that we share the meaning of the institutions. I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 5.2, tabled by Senator De Petris and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the vote on Rule 5.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-905.ana.u111	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-905.ana.u112	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-905.ana.u113	DE PETRIS (Misto-SI-SEL). Mr President, in these very few days when the Rosatellum bill was at the attention of the Senate, we have hoped to be able to do our job. We have always defended the dignity of the Senate and in these five years of legislature we have always defended this House. We defended it by fighting against constitutional reform, by fighting among the citizens to make no prevail, and the no prevailed, Mr President, by a very large majority. We thought, therefore, that that vote had given strength not only to the Senate but to our Constitution and we arrived at this debate - even before the Commission - with the confidence that we could still do our job and have all the other senators do it. On the contrary, for the umpteenth time - it has happened so many times in this parliamentary term - we have faced a vote of confidence. Actually, we never expected that the electoral law would place three trusts in the House and five in the Senate. Someone's gonna have to rewrite the history books. To date, in fact, the only precedent of the Republican Constitution is the scam law, but today there will be a new chapter. Moreover, this is the result of a clear, clear agreement between Renzi, Berlusconi and Verdini. On the other hand, Verdini must be proud, because in reality his ideas on the electoral law, already expressed, eventually had a broad sharing. This is not only not good for this institution, it is not good for democratic institutions, Mr President. It will not do good for Italian politics, because once again citizens outside of here will think that they have not done the good of the country. Who, for example, waits to retire, maybe hoped that this government would eventually put the vote of confidence in order not to raise the retirement age. Someone else hoped for a measure that, perhaps in the last part of the legislature, given the suffering of this country, could be of help to Italy. And, on the other hand, everyone has gone into the electoral law to perpetuate a system of power, a political system that, once again, as happened with the referendum, will be denied by the elections. We have seen that the four trusts put forward so far have been voted by a minority. The government placed four trusts taking 150 votes, to obtain which were decisive the votes of ALA, the Verdini Group. Mr President, this is what remains, at the end of this debate, of the moment of confrontation: only two amendments. To this, Mr President, the debate on the electoral law has been reduced. For all these reasons, Mr President, we can no longer continue to participate in the votes: it really is our dignity and the dignity of this House that are at stake. For these reasons, from now on we will no longer be voting: we will not vote and we will leave the Chamber. [[Applause from the Mixed-SI-SEL and Art.1-MDP Groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-905.ana.u114	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-905.ana.u115	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-905.ana.u116	WAR (Art. 1-MDP). Mr President, today we have seen a test of strength. The cartel - because this is the case - which supported the electoral law, imposed it on Parliament and in particular on the Senate, without any possibility of confrontation and debate, with the repetition of votes of confidence, which however demonstrated the weakness of the Government. This is really very serious, because although a new majority has been formed, of which we must take note, because a new parliamentary group, led by Senator Verdini, known as ALA, has become part of the majority, voting repeatedly on confidence, despite this help the majority that supports the government is not an absolute majority. This situation should worry very much the President of the Council Gentiloni Silveri, who put himself on this adventure, not, as the President emeritus Napolitano told us this morning, forced by the pressure of some unidentified majority. A President-in-Office of the Council, in fact, does not make any decisions that are forced by others, but assumes his own responsibilities, firsthand, if necessary together with his Council. If Gentiloni Silveri and his Government have decided to put the question of trust, the responsibility for what is happening today is first and foremost in their head, certainly not at the head of the President of the Senate, who tries to play a super part. [[Applause from the Mixed-SI-SEL and Art.1-MDP Groups]] , nor in charge of foreign forces, which forced him to do so. If he's forced to leave, he'll resign if it's something he doesn't share. Therefore, the Government, headed by the President of the Council, Gentiloni Silveri, has consciously decided to expose itself in this Chamber to the ruin of five votes of confidence on the electoral law, which, as has been repeated in the debate that preceded this vote, had always said that it would be kept out, because it is an exquisitely parliamentary law. It has therefore taken the risk of being in the situation in which it finds itself now: a situation in which it has recorded that its majority is a minority and that, from now on, starting from the very delicate passage of the budget law, if it wants to have a majority, it will have to pity the support - made, as we have seen today, of fake missions, of unexpected diseases and not declared presences - of another important force: Come on, Italy. It is no coincidence that this has happened and what has happened in this House today makes this clear. The new majority that has been formed, a more silent one, that does not appear in the vote of confidence, is doing the general proof for what the electoral law was created for at our examination. It is in fact an electoral law that represents a cartel, because tomorrow this electoral law will guarantee a Government of broad understandings in which PD and Forza Italia predict - and they are deceived - to govern the country. For today we have already given, we have tried to understand if there were spaces to stop this mess - so I called him and I call him again - even with parliamentary games, through the lack of legal number. We've tried the weapons we have. We have firmly voted no on all the articles that highlight the distortions and absurdities of this electoral law. We will now leave, we will leave the Chamber with regret, because leaving the Chamber is a very serious and very serious gesture for us, but we want it to be clear that it is those who remain and, especially those who remain and vote, who assume responsibility for an electoral law in front of the country that prevents citizens from playing fully the role they should have: electing their representatives, knowing how and who they go to choose. [[Applause from the groups Art.1-MDP and Misto-SI-SEL.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-905.ana.u117	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-905.ana.u118	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-905.ana.u119	ENDRIZZI (M5S). Mr President, we spoke as long as there was something to say and we listened as long as there was something to listen to. Now, as I announced a moment ago, it is time to leave to everyone their own responsibilities, personal ones, which are not only intimate, but are also linked to the role, which others have interpreted differently, those of the new majority of government that we have seen emerge occasionally from the slime that hid it and those of those who in conscience, in the corridors, had the courage to admit with us that this law is unacceptable. We'll see what they do here, but we'll see about that later. We're going to the streets with the citizens now. Mr Russo (PD). I'm not here. ENDRIZZI (M5S). See you at the Pantheon! [[Applause from the M5S Group. The Senators of the M5S Groups, Art.1-MDP and Misto-SI-SEL abandon the hemicycle.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-905.ana.u120	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-905.ana.u121	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-905.ana.u122	Mr Giovanardi (PL-Id) Mr President, I am speaking to announce my personal vote on the financial invariance clause and on the increased public finance burden which, in my opinion, there are and I will explain them to you. In dialectic with the unforgettable Mr Tremaglia and with great perplexity about foreign districts, for some years now in the electoral law we have included a specific provision for our fellow citizens living in Argentina, Europe, Australia and all continents. Today we have also heard the testimony of our colleagues elected abroad, who did not take part in the protest votes. The ratio of this rule is that Italian citizens living in those lands are elected in these exterminated foreign districts to bring the voice of our migrants to the Italian Parliament. It may be a right or wrong choice, but we have built these circuits, which are not cheap, because it is clear that organizing the elections in the Land of Fire in Argentina, the United States or Canada, Australia, Europe or Africa has a cost. The House has decided - and the Senate will endorse this decision - that Italian citizens of foreign districts may be resident in Italy. Someone has to explain to me how it is possible that, after creating foreign districts and having established that the representatives of our migrants must come here to give voice to those who live far away, but feel Italian, now instead we establish that in foreign districts goes to campaign electoral who has always lived in Italy and is resident in our country. If, therefore, there are no new burdens, I still see more, as well as a clear unconstitutionality. What do we care about foreign districts and why do we want to humiliate our migrants? In fact, therefore, with this law there are no new burdens, but there are more totally unnecessary burdens like that of foreign districts, whose ratio has been upset.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-905.ana.u123	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-905.ana.u124	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-905.ana.u125	Mr Barani (ALA-SCLP). We call for the vote to be taken by simultaneous ballot by electronic means.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-905.ana.u126	I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Rule 5. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the vote on Article 6 of Law No 2941, in the text approved by the House of Deputies, on the approval of which the Government has raised the question of trust.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-905.ana.u127	I refer to the vote on Article 6 of Law No 2941, in the text approved by the Chamber of Deputies, on the approval of which the Government has raised the question of trust. I recall that, pursuant to Rule 94, second paragraph, of the Constitution and pursuant to Rule 161 (1) of the Rules of Procedure, the vote on the matter of trust will take place by roll-call vote. Each senator called by the Senator Secretary will have to vote before the Presidency. The senators for trust will answer yes; the opposing senators will answer no; the senators who intend to abstain will speak accordingly. I draw by lot the name of the senator from whom the roll call will begin. (The name of Senator Casini is drawn by lot.) I invite the Senator Secretary to proceed with the appeal, starting with Senator Casini. AMATI, secretary, makes the appeal. The senators: Aiello, Albano, Albertini, Amati, Amoruso, Angioni, Anitori, Astorre Barani, Bencini, Berger, Bertuzzi, Bianconi, Bondi, Borioli, Broglia, Buemi Caleo, Cantini, Capacchione, Cardinals, Chiavaroli, Cirinnà, Cocincich, Collina, Colucci, Compagnone, Conte, Cucca D'Adda, Dalla Zuanna, D'Ascoli, De Biaschi, Del Barba, Della Vedova, Di Giorgi, D'Onghia Esposito Lucia, Esposito Stefano Fabbri, Falanga, Fasiolo, Fattorini, Faverini, Fedeli, Ferrara Elena, Filippi, Finocchiaro, Fissore, Formigoni, Fravezzi Gambaro, Gentile, Giannini, Ginetti, Ginetti, Gualdani, Maverini, Maverini, Fierini, Fierini, Fieri, Fieri, Ferrara, Fieri, Fieri, Ferrara, Ichini, Ferrara Larchiani, Ferrara Larchi Senators say no: Alicata, Arrigoni Bertacco Calderoli, Centinario, Comaroli, Consiglio, Crosio De Pin Galimberti Palma Scilipoti Isgrò Serafini Tosato Volpi Zin, Zuffada. (Senators Chiti, Giacobbe, Longo Fausto Guilherme, Manconi, Micheloni, Cucchetti, Ruta, Tocci and Turano declare that they do not participate in the vote) PRESIDENT. I declare the vote closed and invite the Secretary Senators to proceed with the counting of votes. (Secretary Senators proceed to count votes).
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-905.ana.u128	I greet on behalf of the Assembly students, pupils, escorts and teachers of the Omni-Encompassing Institute of Guglionesi, in the province of Campobasso, who are attending our work. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-905.ana.u129	I declare the result of the roll-call vote by appeal of Article 6 of Law No 2941, in the text approved by the Chamber of Deputies, on the approval of which the Government has put the question of trust: [[Senators present 172 Senators voting 162 Majority 82 Favorables 145 Contrars 17]] The Senate approves. All the amendments and the agenda presented in Article 6 of bill No 2941 are therefore not included. I shall refer the following to another session of the debate on the draft law.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-905.ana.u130	The motions, questions and questions received by the Presidency will be published in Annex B to today's report.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-905.ana.u131	The Senate will meet again in public tomorrow, Thursday 26 October, at 9.30 a.m., with the following agenda: (See agenda) The sitting was closed at 18.23 a.m.
