ParlaMint-IT_2017-09-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-880.ana.u1	The sitting was opened at 16.33 p.m. The Minutes shall be read. Mr SIBILIA, secretary, read the Minutes of the afternoon sitting of the previous day. PRESIDENT. - The debate is Since there were no comments, the Minutes were approved.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-09-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-880.ana.u2	The list of senators on leave and absent on assignment received from the Senate, as well as further communications to the Assembly, will be published in Annex B to today's Minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-09-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-880.ana.u3	I would warn you that qualified votes can be taken in the course of today's sitting by electronic means. Therefore, from this moment the period of twenty minutes from the notice provided for in Article 119, paragraph 1 of the Regulation (at 16,37 hours) begins.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-09-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-880.ana.u4	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-09-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-880.ana.u5	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-09-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-880.ana.u6	WAR (Art. 1-MDP). Mr President, it is a great honour and a great emotion for me to remember today Luciano Guerzoni, in Modena "the senator" by name. Luciano Guerzoni, who was born in Modena in 1935, left us on August 10th. His life was characterized by a constant commitment, at once political, civic and moral, always conducted with seriousness and rigour, but also with civil passion, openness to the new and innovative capacity. In the memories of the many who, much more than I, have had the opportunity to attend him, emerges with force, as a distinctive fact of his person, the ability to combine the will to cultivate memory, because it is from memory that the awareness also of the present is born, the attention to daily life, which must be interpreted and in which we must constantly operate, and the project for the future, which is the goal of our values and our identity. From these memories emerge also two constant traits at the basis of his action: the anti-fascist militancy, founded on the acute awareness that what happened could happen again, and attention to young people, their aspirations, their rights, in other words, their future. It is impossible to account for the entire work of Luciano Guerzoni. I will just mention some essential elements of his action in four main areas: in the party, as administrator, in Parliament and with the National Association of Italian Partisans (ANPI). In the party Luciano Guerzoni worked as a militant: a militancy of service for his constant willingness to listen and compare and, at the same time, a militancy of responsibility, for the different leadership roles that he was called to perform, both at local level (he was also the city secretary of the PCI of Modena) and at national level. Among the constants of his political action within the party I remember the desire to know and deepen and the commitment to the formation of young people, beginning when he was young himself. As administrator Luciano Guerzoni was councilman, first and regional then, and at the head of the Emilia-Romagna Region between 1987 and 1990. For years he has acted as the protagonist of the Emilian reformism and good governance of our territories. The culture of local self-government and the close link between administration and administrators has always been strong in him. It is he himself who remembers how particularly significant two laws of great social and cultural importance of this period. The one is related to the schools of childhood, which has expanded and qualified the service and helped to affirm the particular integrated public-private model that has guaranteed a widespread presence of the service on the regional territory by making, to quote his words, the schools for children real educational agencies on the territory; in the other, the landscape law, develops a modern conception of the use of the territory and the protection of its most valuable parts. In the Parliament Luciano Guerzoni was elected to the Senate in 1992, to be reconfirmed until 2006. Four legislatures in which it has maintained a continuous and fruitful relationship with its territory of origin in order to listen to its needs and questions and make it interpreter at national level. In the 14 years in the Senate he held roles of responsibility that allowed him to exploit and at the same time to expand his skills. I would like to recall, in particular, his role as Vice-Cover, for his parliamentary group, as well as the roles he has played in the Commissions in which he has used his knowledge and his experience as administrator, in particular as President of the Commission on regional and financial matters and treasure. Particularly significant in his path of coherent anti-fascist has been the role played as Vice President in the Commission of Inquiry into the causes of the concealment of the files related to Nazi-fascist crimes. A very important Commission, which, among other things, led to the acquisition of a document of great importance relating to the matter known as the "barrack of shame," to which concealment seems to have contributed, according to the connections found in Parliament, also directives of political order. A commitment, that of Guerzoni in the Commission of inquiry, in line with what has always animated him to know and to make known, to recall, to prevent one from forgetting what fascism and Nazism have been in Italy and in Europe. In the ANPI, Luciano Guerzoni's commitment becomes a priority when he was elected in 2006 among the members of the national committee ANPI and then, since 2007, he entered the national secretariat. It is here that he tests his well-known organizational skills, contributing strongly to the operational relaunch of the entire association, not only with his ideas, but also guaranteeing his physical presence on all territories and helping to bring the ANPI, in a single year, to fill a pre-existing presence gap in 30 Provinces of the Mezzogiorno. Also in the ANPI, Luciano Guerzoni animates and organizes a series of important events. I want to mention among all the event, organized together with the CGIL, of May 1st in Portella della Ginestra, in 2010, in memory of the massacre of May 1st, 1947 when, during a demonstration against the landowners, eleven people were killed by the gang of Salvatore Giuliano. Also in the ANPI continues his attention and, therefore, his activity towards young people. I would like to recall, for example, when, on the occasion of the 150th anniversary of the unity of Italy, he organized a youth gathering in the places of the exile of Garibaldi, presenting it with these words: The encounter between young people will have the human value of knowledge, will be the occasion of a cultural and political exchange, will allow the possibility of building fruitful relationships within the association. Since 2012 he has been called to hold the position of vice-president vicar of the Italian Confederation among the combatant and partisan associations and his planning is not stopped at all. Finally, he has worked hard to computerize all the files of the Ricompart fund, kept at the State Central Archives, to make the material of the fund fully accessible to students, teachers and scholars. It is a work that the ANPI, today present with a qualified delegation, which I greet, to attend this commemoration, intends to continue with determination. I met Luciano Guerzoni personally only in 2016, on the occasion of the joint commitment for the no to the recent constitutional referendum. I was able to appreciate the qualities of a balanced and passionate person at the same time, directed in relationships, able to put at ease the interlocutor, available to change but strongly rooted in values. A person who will miss my city so much, all those who have known him and who have made a little way with him, and there are many. And so many of them have come around their families these days, as we want to do today, thanking them for their presence, wife, daughter and grandchildren, here in this House, who saw Luciano Guerzoni playing his role as senator, as required by the Constitution that was so dear to him, with discipline and honor. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-09-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-880.ana.u7	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-09-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-880.ana.u8	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-09-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-880.ana.u9	Mr Giovanardi (PL-Id) Mr President, Luciano Guerzoni was for me a political opponent, with whom I shared and shared the experience of the Municipal Council in Modena, from 1975 to 1980, when twenty-nine elected communists in that Municipal Council were sitting in the Italian Communist Party and twelve out of fifty Christian Democrats. In 1980, together we went to the Regional Council, with a similar situation: twenty nine communists and twelve Christian Democrats. Guerzoni, both in the City Council and in the Regional Council, already appeared for what he has always been in his life: a serious person, passionate about the activity he was doing and a few words but, as in the tradition of his great colleagues that I knew, when a word gave it, he kept it. I remember, in Emilia-Romagna Region, two other great protagonists of that great season, Decimo Triossi and Giorgio Ceredi, one of Ravenna and the other of Forlì, which perhaps some of you have known. Giorgio Ceredi, a great agricultural councillor, said: you're right, I can give it to you; or: I think you're wrong; the third hypothesis was: you're right, but for political reasons I can't give it to you. This, however, with great transparency, with great clarity and with great authority. Decimo Triossi recalled how the commitment of party officials was then assumed with a spirit of sacrifice, of renunciation and in the perspective (with a joke that was then fashionable) of people who divided the world into two categories: who was communist and who would become communist. There was, therefore, always this pedagogical attention to the adversaries, to convince them of the goodness of their reasons. And the opponents of Luciano Guerzoni in Modena were not small people: I think of Ermanno Gorrieri, a Modenese, and Giuseppe Medici, Minister for many legislation. Characters with whom dialogue and civil and political confrontation was always at the highest level. I remember then when Guerzoni became President of the Emilia-Romagna Region, from 1987 to 1990, an assignment that he maintained with the usual seriousness, with the willingness, however, to speak with everyone and with a rigorous and religious approach of respect for the institutions. I say this because when, in 1992, once again together, we decided to run for office in Parliament, because the rules of the time stipulated that we had to resign six months before the end of the parliamentary term, on 3 January of that year we resigned irrevocably and other colleagues took over, waiting for the elections to take place. Only afterward did we discover (and laughed a little bitterly) that in almost all the Italian regions our colleagues had pretended to resign and then, if elected, had entered Parliament, if not elected, had lost in some drawer the resignations they had early withdrawn. I assure you, however, that in Emilia-Romagna no one, a majority or opposition, a Christian Democrat or a communist, had passed even through the antechamber of the brain not to scrupulously respect the rules laid down for the elections. Of course, then we got a little lost in the sense that, for the game of politics, as I was a minority when he was a majority in the City Council and, when we were at the Regional Council, he was President while I was in the opposition, so in Rome we alternated in roles. I remember him until the last few days, in the last few months, when we left with the train from Modena; or I found him on the way back, always busy and absorbed. The vocation she had for active politics transferred her to the ANPI, because she believed in it, because until the last one she served the cause in which she believed. And then, as I said also in Modena, when many liquidate with superficiality the First Republic and the Fifties, Sixties and Seventies I say: maybe there were in the Second and Third Republic men like Luciano Guerzoni, who honor the political part that they served and of which they were part! [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-09-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-880.ana.u10	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-09-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-880.ana.u11	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-09-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-880.ana.u12	VACCARI (PD). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, dear family members and friends of the ANPI in the gallery, I do not hide, like my colleague, Mr Guerra, both the pride and the emotion of speaking in this House, where Luciano has worked for many years. In Modena Luciano Guerzoni was for everyone "the senator"; it doesn't matter if he no longer held that position for a few years or who else at that time was in Palazzo Madama. Luciano Guerzoni was "the senator," because that name had earned him on the field, for his authority, for his seriousness, for his passion, for his competence and also for his unfailing commitment. Anyone who wanted to talk to him, for whatever reason or whatever his political idea was, had nothing but to ask for an appointment. He in the office, in the federation of the PCI of Modena, spent every week, always, and made it a point of honor to find time to listen to everyone. My countryman, Senator for three legislatures, but also President of the Region and National Vice President of ANPI, left us, as has been said, on August 10th. For me, young administrator, it was an example; as a parliamentary, a model. His passion for politics led him from a very young age, when, already enrolled in the Communist Party, to pay for his university studies he had worked as a worker at Fiat and Maserati, where he became a programmer of industrial production. Soon he began to hold more and more positions of responsibility within the Modena party: he became City Councillor in Modena, then regional councillor, then, as has been said, appreciated President of the Region, expression of that Emilian reformism that so much gave our country. In 1992 he ran for the Senate, with the Democratic Party of the Left; after being elected, he became the PDS Deputy Parent. The last two legislatures took place in the ranks of the Left Democrats. From him, all those like me, who grew up in Modena in the FGCI of the eighties and nineties and enthusiasts of politics, learned what was the connection with the territory for a parliamentarians: being always available, the healthy relationship with the interests that were to be represented, even beyond the political belongings and fences, for the good of that community, in the relationship with all its representatives. We also learned a lot more from his actions and words, because he never strayed from confrontation and encounter, especially with us young people. In time he had also become a friend and - if I may emphasize this - the esteem had become mutual. Together with Senator Giuliano Barbolini made the choice, then not easy, also to support me in the challenge for the provincial secretariat of the Democrats of Modena at the 2001 Congress. The attendance has continued over the years and its sense of politics as a service for the common good, of the right way in which things are to be dealt with, has never changed, even when it no longer held office as a party. At the beginning of this legislature, in his new role as vice president of the ANPI, he tried to convey to me and to other senators of the Democratic Party his wealth of parliamentary knowledge and experience on the theme of the memory of the twentieth century, starting from the results he obtained with the so-called "barrack of shame," which he managed, together with others, to acquire and open, discovering the acts and documents on the Nazi massacres carried out in our country during the Second World War. Even when political positions differed, as was the case with the referendum of 4 December last, there was never a lack of frank and sincere confrontation. I remember that just last year, on the occasion of the provincial feast of Modena unity, I involved him in the initiative of presentation of a beautiful book, written by Massimo Cirri, on the son of Palmiro Togliatti, Aldo, who lived and was curated in Modena for many years. He said to me: First ask Alfonsina Rinaldi, Stefano. You know, she was secretary to the PCI Federation in those years. Then, if you can't, I'll come. You know, I'm a little tired, but I'm glad to come. True, he was a little tired in recent times, also because of the disease, but always very attentive to everything that was happening, to the evolution of the local situation as well as the national one. Senator Luciano Guerzoni has really been a reference point for many generations of a political community that has changed a lot (of course, and could not be otherwise) in these years. We already miss him. We will miss so much his advice and his reflections, but also his encouragement and his support, and in the coming weeks that community, starting from the ANPI, I know that will give him the homage he deserves. In conclusion, on behalf of the Group of the Democratic Party, I wish to express my closeness and heartfelt and heartfelt condolences to the family present here and say: hello Luciano, thank you for everything you have given us and left us. [[Applause. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-09-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-880.ana.u13	The Presidency supports the sentiments expressed by colleagues. I also personally recall the commitment, solidity and concreteness of Senator Guerzoni, whom I met on many occasions in the parliamentary classrooms. In his memory, I invite the House to observe a minute's silence. [[The President stands up and with him the whole House, who observes a minute's silence. Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-09-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-880.ana.u14	The next item is the continuation of the debate on draft law Nos. 2287- bis, 459 and 1116. I recall that during the afternoon sitting the examination of the articles was completed. He asked to speak in an explanation of vote Senator Giovanardi, who I see engaged in a conversation with Senator Sposetti, who I imagine is a tail of Senator Guerzoni's memory.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-09-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-880.ana.u15	Mr President, that is what Parliament's life is like. There is not even time to digest a moment of common emotion and remembrance of a colleague. It's a bit like the show business: the show has to go on. So I apologize if I was talking to my colleague, privately continuing the common memory of a great character. Mr President, I have to say that it is honestly difficult to get the money out of a debate that risks being, in the end, somewhat surreal, I say this to the representative of the Government. Let's play a game: if you'd been to the government, what would you have done? Probably, if I had been to the government at the time when the amendment on dogs and horses was being tabled, I would have returned to the House. In this way, perhaps, I would have interpreted the vast majority of the Senate - I think so - that it had found a consensus on the elimination, albeit progressive, of wild animals or, in any case, of animals which, on matters related to animal welfare, are not located in circuses. On what can be said about the terms 'deleting' or 'overtaking', I have seen the protests of the animalist associations but it is clear that when in Parliament it gets messy and it is not clear that everyone is likely to be displeased and to get to 360 degrees protests. Objectively, the norm as it is messed up, because if I had to explain (but should be majority and Government to do so) what is the difference between the elimination and the overcoming, I would have some difficulty explaining the reasons why one term has been replaced with the other, both because of the controversy that this change has provoked among the environmental associations, and for the association Ente nazionale circhi, which instead has been said fully satisfied with this type of choice, but that we all know will face great problems of an executive and administrative type. In fact, I repeat and say this to the Government, I would like you to explain how you can intervene when the horses or dogs will not be able to continue to carry out in the magic circle of the circus those activities that they can do outside the circus tent, in sports activities, in recreational activities, in trekking, in the private homes of the Italians. The circus would be the only place in the world where a horse cannot make a run or where a dog cannot do an exercise, although it has been trained as is the case for the guide dogs of the blind or those used after the avalanches or earthquakes to find the people who have been overwhelmed by snow or rubble. It is clear that this specialization is the result of the work of the instructors and of a continuous exercise that teaches them to work or that teaches other animals to carry out activities, such as the Olympic ones that surely, in the civilized England, are carried out also for recreational purpose. There is no doubt, in fact, that the racetracks, the hunting from the fox, the cricket and all the Olympic activities of that type that take place on horseback do not have a philanthropic end but sport practice. I have not quite understood, honestly, the reasons why the Government has denied the exclusion of dogs and horses from the norm relating to circus activity, when it knows very well that then the norm will be inapplicable. I must also take note, however, that the rule that comes out of the Senate is different from that which entered it, that the word "deleting" has been removed and replaced by the word "overtaking." I hope that this or the next Government will be able to manage this indication with intelligence, working in such a way that animal welfare is guaranteed, making more controls - there would be no other, the more controls there are and the better it is - but also governing the issue without putting at risk the work of 6,000 people and without thinking - I repeat for the umpteenth time and it is one of the reasons of our abstention - that a Parliament can delete Fellini, can delete the great Totò, can delete the images of thousands of works of art, books and dozens of films that have been built on the circus and its charm, can erase a tradition replacing it with nothing or basing it only on human exploitation, that is, only on men and women. A Parliament cannot do this, because it would mean not taking a step forward, but regressing with respect to entire generations of people who are passionate and still are passionate, for those who like the circus, to this kind of show, which is also a great teaching of how men and animals can cooperate, can do a job together. It is not by chance, even recently, in the last papal audience, granted also by the present Pope and not only by others, to the workers of the circus, the image that derived from it is that of the Pope with an animal, wild in this case, which shows the exaltation, always made by the doctrine of the Church, of the fact that there should be no opposition between men and animals but a relationship of collaboration. These are the reasons why we shall abstain on this measure. [[Applause from the FL Group (Id-PL, PLI).]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-09-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-880.ana.u16	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-09-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-880.ana.u17	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-09-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-880.ana.u18	PANIZE (Aut (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT)-PSI-MAIE). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, representative of the Government, the quality of the speeches and the passion that many Members have put into general discussion are proof of how much the subject and the measure are heard. Of course, there is still regret for a delegation law that reaches the last corner of the legislature. Perhaps it could be done sooner, in order to bring to completion the good work of these years, with which a significant impulse has been given to the entire cultural and artistic sector and which, as the Minister has reiterated several times, must aim to be one of the most important voices of the economy of our country. (17.04) (FollowING PANIZE). In this context, we remain of the opinion that we must strengthen the instruments and resources also in favour of cultural volunteering, not only because of the implications of economic growth, but also because the commitment of cultural volunteering forms and consolidates the cohesion of a living and responsible community, which participates and enhances relations, which promotes integration and social inclusion, even in the smallest or peripheral places. In general discussion I have already explained what, in our opinion, are the strengths and critical elements of the law. In this House, all I have to do is renew the invitation to the Government to take charge of it with the next budget law. In the Committee on Culture, including through the agendas that I have signed and promoted, the Government has reiterated a concrete commitment that I hope will respect; the rapporteur, Mrs Di Giorgi, has also asked with conviction, which I thank. First of all, we must make it permanent for taxpayers to choose the cultural associations to which they are assigned the two per thousand in their tax returns. It is a possibility of funding that associations and the whole world of volunteering look forward to, also because it urges them to work more and better, in an even more synergy relationship with citizens and with the territory. But it is also necessary to introduce tax concessions for the band, choral, pro-dramatic, choreutic and folkloric realities for the organization of training courses, for the compensation to be granted to technical collaborators who perform intermittent performances. And one must think of some form of deduction in favour of families for the registration of children to training courses, the same as what happens for sport. Finally, there is the need for a revision of the copyright discipline in favour of voluntary organizations and social promotion associations, for initiatives, for beneficial purposes, for the free live execution of music. In this respect, I have tabled a specific agenda, and I thank the Government and the rapporteur for having accepted it, just as the similar ones tabled by my colleagues have been accepted. It may sound like a small shopping list, but it isn't. Who, like me, has always known the world of cultural volunteering well knows how much passion, commitment and skills are put on the field every day, and for this we must be grateful to all those who continue to spend their energies free of charge. And I know how difficult it is to carry out such meritorious activities, that they have a long tradition in our country and that they are fundamental both for the quality of life of our communities, for the promotion of tourism, and for the image of Italy in the world. That is why I call on the entire Government to strengthen these areas, especially on the ground of the resources allocated to them. They no longer receive anything from the FUS and very little from the local authorities; they often live only by the goodwill of their supporters and now wait for good intentions to follow the facts. Next to the world of volunteering, talents must be put at the centre. There is a creative and innovative generation that is the repository of new knowledge and knowledge, which has important skills, which can also produce economic value and qualified employment opportunities. Just yesterday in the Chamber began the discussion on a measure for cultural and creative enterprises, the youth start-ups, with which tax relief and depreciation are expected. It is an interesting proposal and we really hope that it will come to an end before the end of the parliamentary term. In conclusion, our hope is that this delegation, which really deals with many issues, that puts order and gives a more solid regulatory framework to many sectors that have been waiting for it for some time, is another piece so that culture is increasingly central also for the economic repercussions and to increase the competitiveness of our country. But in order to do so we must take into account culture in all its expressions, from the highest to the most popular, from those of tradition to those that produce new knowledge, creativity and innovation. All must be put in a position to express their potential, thus helping to strengthen positive data on the country's growth. It is with this hope that I will once again thank the rapporteur and my colleagues in the Culture Committee for voting in favour of this measure by the Group for the Autonomies-PSI-MAIE. [[Applause from Senators Ferrara Elena and Laniece.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-09-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-880.ana.u19	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-09-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-880.ana.u20	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-09-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-880.ana.u21	IURLARO (ALA-SCLP). Mr President, this measure intervenes in a fundamental area for each country, having as its object the sector of culture, a world in which Italy is historically at the forefront with its own productions. Investing in culture can only be a source of pride, especially if this happens in a difficult economic and financial context, and that is why it is particularly regrettable to be faced with yet another wasted opportunity. The measures provided for in this delegation law seem more targeted to ensure the mere survival of the sector than to focus on a real revival of the world of Italian entertainment, universally known and admired. The intention to realize an organic discipline of the show is certainly commendable, but in reality the measure under consideration seems excessively vague in defining areas and modalities on which the Government will have to try with the decrees delegated. We must remember that we are talking about a subject that is for us first of all history and tradition and should therefore be concretely and properly valued. Tradition, in fact, remains so if it is constantly revitalized; if it is not encouraged, it becomes a legend, only a memory. And this measure is mainly due to the lack of the possibility of doing the show and the various forms of art that it includes an area on which especially the youngest could invest for their future, which was in part foreseen with the recent approval of the Law on cinema and audiovisual, of which the text under consideration today is an excerpt. The entertainment sector is a sector in crisis that needs to be raised with targeted and direct subsidies and incentives to support artistic activities, with systemic planning of measures and modalities that can have concrete effects in the long term. Here, on the other hand, a further bureaucratic complication for access to funds is expected with the replacement of the old consulta for the show with the superior council of the show, which is entrusted, among other things, also the task of expressing opinions to the Ministry of Heritage and Cultural Activities on the criteria for the allocation of resources. This rigidity is also countered by excessive superficiality and vagueness as regards interventions in favour of academies, whose role is historically of crucial importance for this sector. In fact, the Italian academies have always represented an avant-garde, even in the wider international context, and they would have deserved more attention to relaunch their activities. Even the circuses have not found the right and deserved attention in a measure that seems not to take into account an important and ancient tradition that, like the other forms of art, requires commitment and dedication, as well as particular abilities not only physical, developed in schools and institutes for training in the individual disciplines. That of the circuses is, in fact, an artistic universe among the widest, which encloses from the actors masters of comedy to the athletes, from gymnasts to illusionists: in short, a decidedly consistent part of what is commonly defined as the world of entertainment. The measures taken for the circus world seem, on the other hand, intended exclusively to undermine its activity and there are no initiatives worthy of note to support and encourage its diffusion. It was intended to associate the circuses only with the controversial use of animals in certain shows, with the aim of tightening up the regulations currently in force, which are perhaps already excessively stringent. All the rest of the shows that take place under the famous tents was literally ignored and nothing was planned for their enhancement. The same idea of relaunching the Italian show even abroad does not seem to adequately deal with the multicultural context that is increasingly evident in modern societies and that should also be understood as a moment of common enrichment, of encounter between different cultures. In conclusion, the text before us today seems to be lacking in the same forecast of relaunching a sector which, if properly stimulated, would give a very important return in both economic and cultural terms. It was done too little and too badly. Therefore, I declare the ALA-Civic Chosen Group voting against.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-09-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-880.ana.u22	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-09-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-880.ana.u23	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-09-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-880.ana.u24	LIUZZI (GAL (DI, GS, MPL, RI)). Mr President, what we are looking at today is a measure of delegation, through which Parliament points out to the Government the principles to be followed in the redefinition of the norms that concern a fundamental sector for the cultural development and the maintenance of the traditions of our country, which is the field of live entertainment. In the text we find shared principles, drawn from the need to update, regulate, review, age and innovate a multifaceted and creative sector. For these reasons I am grateful, Mr President, for the work done jointly by the 7th Commission, of which I am a member, and I acknowledge the rapporteur, Senator Di Giorgi, for having shown great willingness to accept observations and considerations, all of which are based on the surest reasonableness, in order to arrive at a measure that is all the more shared. Among other things, the amount of hearings that has been generated within the Commission puts us in a position today to think that the 7th Commission has done a good job, not to mention any reference and no area affected by this delegation measure. I listened carefully to the speeches that followed during the general discussion and I was able to judge some of them as important, clarifying and relevant. In the few minutes at my disposal, however, I would like to draw attention to one aspect which I consider essential in terms of perpetuating the values of popular culture, namely circus activities. The text of delegation to the Government intervenes decisively on a topic much debated over the years, which has seen a contrast, often violent tones, between exponents of the most extremist animalism and circus people, regarding the use of animals in circuses. I welcome the demands of the circuses and their staff, who legitimately claim that without animals a circus cannot survive. Some circus families have tried to put on shows completely free of animals, but they have touched with hands almost the zero appeal of their shows. Ergo, not only acrobats, clowns and jugglers would suffice, but the most authentic popular tradition of the circus makes the presence of animals indispensable. The idea, however, is not only for circus workers who are thus at risk of unemployment. My reasoning goes further and invests the very essence of the circus show. We should uncomfortable the nourished filmography on the magic of the circus to remind ourselves of the message of great humanity that comes from the colorful tent of the circus, with all the semiology of abandonment, loneliness, the alternation of moods between joy and sadness. Well, the theme is not the presence of animals in the circus. The question is whether or not they are treated. Personally, I believe that any trainer who needs to empathize with the animal and has no interest - unless he is an ignorant brute - in treating the animal who performs in his numbers badly. That is where we need to take action, that is to say on monitoring and compliance with the existing rules and protocols on this point. Do we want to tighten sanctions in the event of a breach? All right, let's do it. Do we want to implement the controls on circuses in each square? Great. Do we want to focus on an innovative protocol of understanding between ASL, protection agencies and institutions for the use of animals in entertainment and sports that, in compliance with current legislation, further empowers operators? We don't ask for any better. But do not tell me that it is not ethical to use animals in the circus, because, if so, then we should banish the horse, the dressage, the training of dogs for the blind, the training of dogs for the rescue in water or in the rubble of an earthquake or a Slavina. Even these animals are trained and have to work mostly in poor places and rich in pitfalls. And what about animals used for film productions? Are they allowed to be trained for the purpose? It seems to me that we are moving into a minefield of manifest inequality. It therefore seems to me that the brightest supporters of the elimination of animals in circuses are also those who perhaps know less about ethology and even less know the behavioral characteristics of animals born in captivity. Well, I cannot fail to remind this House of the load of laughter and often irony, the sufficiency that has aroused the positions of Senator Giovanardi, who has supported reasons of common sense and the need, in essence, to pay attention and open the ears to what science, also called by the senator for life Elena Cattaneo, induces us to consider, precisely, the behavior of animals. It seems that this House did not want to listen and, therefore, seemed deaf to those appeals. One forgets of something not indifferent, namely that in a world so technologized, urbanized, that has surpassed the peasant civilization, that today one would say post-industrial, the contact with circuses and zoos (today called bioparks) becomes the only possibility for a large part of the population (especially of the youth and infantile groups) to be able to see live animals that only on television or in the imagination can know. And it doesn't seem indifferent to me, especially since globalization, with the effects of commodification and approval down, is hitting the sectors of culture heavily today, determining the need to rediscover the authentic values at the basis of tradition, and therefore of popular culture and the identity of a national community. It seems to me then an incomprehensible outrage towards a very small community, the circus one, which is perhaps not adequately defended, because it is not a producer of votes like the most extremist animal groups, nor does this community lend itself to commercial operations that today prevail even in the great millionaire business of animal food. I therefore hope that on this issue the game will not be closed and the Government will use a balanced discernment on the prospects that take into account the crowds in this House in favour of circus activities animated by animals, in particular dogs and horses. For the rest, the measure is quite positive, in the sense that it contains appreciable elements expected from the workers of the show. But - as always happens for the delegated laws - we will have to wait for the decrees of implementation to judge the concrete impact of the measure. We are therefore pleased with the contribution made by my political side and my presence in the Commission on the recognitions that will finally reach the diverse world of popular traditions, and therefore of the carnivals of Italy, of the gangs with their centuries-old port of cultural democracy, represented by the founding task of spreading the musical repertoires around the Peninsula, up and down cities, countries and districts, for the benefit of the resident populations, who would never and still have no opportunity to attend great opera-symphonic performances. The delegation to the Government also includes historical performances and historical processions, dance, jazz, youth music, prose and drama. We also appreciate the content of the delegation on the extension of the Art bonus to the entertainment sector. We would have liked, President - and I am really beginning to conclude - that the Art Bonus should also be extended to an important sector, art publishing, because many artists would like to be known through this type of publishing. For these reasons, and in accordance with the different sensibilities present within the Group of Great Autonomouss and Freedoms, our vote will be abstaining. [[Applause from the LAG groups (DI, GS, MPL, RI) and FL (Id-PL, PLI).]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-09-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-880.ana.u25	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-09-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-880.ana.u26	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-09-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-880.ana.u27	Mr Gotor (Art.1-MDP). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, representatives of the Government, such as the Group of the European Democratic and Progressive Party, since the 7th Commission's examination of this measure, we have approached it in a proactive spirit, with the aim of improving a plant which we have considered to be overall satisfactory. In line with this attitude, we have presented some amending proposals that have been accepted and have primarily concerned the protection of workers employed in the entertainment world, with particular reference to the remuneration aspects; then the set of conditions to promote the dissemination of works by young artists and emerging composers, and finally the wider use of the content of live entertainment by people with disabilities, according to the principles established by the international conventions applicable in this matter, in line with the provisions of the Law on cinema and audiovisual. A careful evaluation of the questions and expectations that come from the world of entertainment - questions that a new political force, sensitive to the world of work and to the protection and development of culture, as we are, has the duty to collect and represent - and an in-depth discussion with the trade unions, in particular with the national secretariat of the CGIL-SLC, cultural production sector, have pushed us to subscribe to and support eight amendments tabled by Senators Bocchino and Petraglia of Italian Left, related to the situation and problems of lyric-symphonic foundations, which express a different orientation than that of the Government that, indeed, we felt to share. In fact, we are talking about an art, the lyrical-symphonic one, which illustrates, thanks to a centuries-old tradition, the good name of Italy throughout the world and a professional sector that gives work not only to artists, but also to thousands of workers necessary to set up the shows. As is well known, a serious crisis has invested most of the lyrical-symphonic foundations, which reached a total debt of more than 300 million euros in 2012, so much so that in 2013 the possibility for the foundations to restructure, under certain conditions, their debt, thanks to a thirty-year loan. Over the years, the usual neoliberal ways have been fought to try to solve the debt crisis, beginning with the reduction of the wages of workers linked to the second level negotiation, up to the zeroing of the dancing bodies of different foundations. The reduction of staff has taken place, in addition to the achievement of pension requirements, through incentives and openings of redundancy procedures, also thanks to the continuous and increasing outsourcing and precarious working relationships. In addition, through a contraction of the fixed-term staff of the orchestras, an arbitrary revisiting of what was required by the composers' scores was carried out, where stable bodies did not allow the execution of certain repertoires. In short, to save money you have even rewritten the history of music. Despite all the efforts and sacrifices required and made by workers - above all by workers - there has been a further rise in debt. There remains, therefore, a worrying critical situation with five theatres that have the negative asset data, while for the remaining three - out of a total of 14 - the debt is however much higher than the available assets. As Group Article 1 - Democratic and progressive movement we believe it is essential to open a public discussion in the country, which starts precisely from the recognition of the special value of these companies, and then to formulate a proposal that is able to address the present problems correctly. On the basis of this approach we are announcing our positive vote on the whole of the measure, but we stand firm and have therefore supported the amendments on lyrical-symphonic foundations. It is - as I said before - absolute and indisputable Italian excellences, qualifying our cultural tradition, a reason for national identity and international prestige; an intangible heritage that cannot be assessed - this is the point - with a merely quantitative meter, which must be protected and valued. All the more so in the age of globalisation, a state that has the sense of its dignity and identity cannot but set its own cultural institutions policy by means of spending choices, understood in the form not of support and less than lost, but of investment and bet on its own future, both economic, social and cultural. For us in the Article 1 Group, the reference point is the constitutional dictation, which reads in Article 9: The Republic shall promote the development of culture and scientific and technical research. It is not possible to promote without foresight and investments, able to maintain our major cultural institutions in their prestige; to bring music back to the centre, starting from the lyrics; expanding the audience and caring for its competence; aiming on the territory, but at the same time according to a national intervention capacity, in order to prevent provincialisms and corporate or localistic closures. In our view, once and for all, the mere accounting, not to say merchantable, logic of balance must be abandoned; we must consider the resources of a possible private patronage, which must be encouraged, as additional and never substitute for public commitment. Rather, it is necessary to proceed with a careful and certainly supervised investment policy, in order to relaunch, in the specific case of the opera foundations, without the problems of control of the managements, their activity. The objective must be the specific safeguard of these theatres and their artistic and technical skills, also through the stability of the working relationships that - I repeat - are increasingly precarious and outsourced. On the other hand, we believe that we must begin to reason in terms of cultural districts, in order to facilitate the encounter between cultured music and mass enjoyment, working at the same time so that extraordinary technical, craft and artistic skills, which represent an unrepeatable unicum, are maintained within the theatres, of which they constitute a valuable and non-exteriorizable resource. Hence the systemic scope of the position of Article 1-Movement democratic and progressive with respect to the new code of the show: a support to the whole maneuver, but holding firm a point of view, which we consider indispensable to implement the positive value of the whole measure. [[Applause from the Groups Art.1-MDP and PD.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-09-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-880.ana.u28	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-09-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-880.ana.u29	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-09-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-880.ana.u30	Conte (AP-CpE-NCD). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, today the long journey of the bill on live entertainment, initially included in the motion picture measure, ends. I think it was a good proposal that the rapporteur, Senator Di Giorgi, wanted to extrapolate this issue from that measure: this proposal, among other things, was unanimously endorsed by the 7th standing Commission. Within that measure, the live performance would not have had the role and dignity that it acquired with the bill under consideration, as I have already pointed out in the intervention in general discussion. Often we talk about laws that are not shared, but I think that this certainly cannot be said for the bill n. 2287-a, because the decision that I thought it appropriate to quote was followed by a laborious iter in the Commission for Public Education, Cultural Heritage, with numerous hearings of representatives of all the components that, in different ways and with different roles, are involved in the varied world of the show; hearings that have allowed to examine to 360 degrees all the problems of the sector in which Italy boasts of the truly unique and universally recognized excellences. Just think - just to give some examples - about the tradition of Italian lyrics or symphonic music or theater. The measure we are about to approve is not limited to the most well known forms in Italy and abroad, because it devotes great attention to other forms that have less distant origins over time but that for this reason are not less valid from the point of view of the cultural proposal, nor less engaging from the point of view of popular participation. I am referring to the great development that in recent decades have had amateur artistic activities such as historical re-enactments, historical carnivals, theatre, music and amateur dances and also activities not amateur but work such as circus, sectors that risked being marginalized if it had continued with the original layout of the law delegation on cinema. These components have been rooted over time in the territory and are representative of the popular culture spread, which identifies belonging, characterizes the history and traditions of each territory. The hearings also made it possible to focus on the critical aspects of the sector and it was on these issues that it was considered appropriate to work. Different criticalities have emerged for the various sectors and genres of the show. I also welcome the rapporteur's spirit of openness and cooperation in addressing the proposals received from all the members, including the minority, who have led to the final text, which responds, if not all, to most of the issues that have emerged. Compared to the original text, the Commission's text presents significant additions in response to a sector that has been waiting for organic reform for a few decades. It was in 1985, in fact, Law 163, which established the FUS, which aimed to bring back to a unified framework state support to the various sectors of the show, governed by specific and numerous laws. However, this general law was not followed by the organic reform of the various sectors provided for in the same transitional provisions. This reform, which has been planned for more than thirty years, has not yet been implemented. I'm going to highlight some important aspects of this bill. It is a delegation law, but not a blank delegation to the Government. This measure contains a number of precise and well-defined guiding principles and criteria, so that the legislative decrees that follow will have to aim primarily at optimization and simplification, including the repeal of previous fragmentary and disorganic provisions, which in the years of waiting for the framework measure have very often left room for the random and contingent management of the initiatives. Economic interventions in support of the promotion and implementation of initiatives and implementing bodies, which are fundamental, have also been mainly managed outside an organic and strategic framework. A second aspect is in the objective of relaunching and developing the live entertainment sector, in all its varieties, including the most recent ones, which otherwise risked being excluded and again without adequate recognition and support. They benefit from contemporary popular music, dance, historical carnivals and historical re-enactments that, in addition to legal recognition, will for the first time have the opportunity to access the FUS, as an integral part of the cultural, artistic, social and economic heritage of the country. A third point concerns the gradual increase in the resources allocated to the FUS, which will be allocated with new strategic criteria and will also include the new sectors. The FUS will have an additional budget of € 9.5 million for 2018 and 2019, which will become €22.5 million from 2020. For the part will have to be followed criteria of valorization of the quality of the productions; of selective financing for the projects of the young under thirty-five; of preservation of the musical, theatrical and Coreutic heritage; of promotion of access to the credit facilitated, with a particular reference to the young artists; of extraordinary plans for the restructuring and technological updating of the structures destined to the show, with particular reference to the municipalities with less than 15,000 inhabitants, to the municipalities of smaller dimensions, those on which the limitedness of resources destined to the culture falls. Positive is that the FUS is destined for at least 3 percent to schools of every order and grade for training, aiming to create a virtuous system that, through training and education to live entertainment, brings in the long term a greater audience, more qualified and sensitive; an investment, therefore, for the future. Article 2 in paragraph 3 is dedicated to the financial criticalities in which the lyric-symphonic foundations pay. During this XVII legislature, many provisions have been made to deal with the crisis in the lyrical-symphonic sector, providing for the reorganization of the governance of foundations and their recovery plans and providing resources that have allowed their survival. In particular, I quote the Bray Act, which provided for access to a special fund of EUR 75 million and the granting of funding for up to 30 years. It was, however, a buffer measure which allowed the survival of those foundations which, in the face of serious economic difficulties, felt that they had recourse to it. Now new criteria for the allocation of the FUS and a new framework for the identification of foundations that can be equipped with special organizational forms are provided. Specifically, it is expected that the FUS will separate the resources allocated to the foundations and reorder the financing criteria, strengthen the responsibility of the supervisor on the economic and financial management of the individual foundations and the shift to 31 December 2019 of the deadline within which the lyric-symphonic foundations will have to respect the new organisational and financial parameters. Another point I want to make to the extension of the Art bonus to the entire field of the show. The tax credit of 65% to promote liberal donations in favour of culture, already applicable today to lyrical-symphonic foundations and traditional theatres, is also extended to the donations in favour of concert and orchestral institutions, national theatres, theaters of significant cultural interest, festivals, companies and theatre and dance production centers, as well as distribution circuits that carry out their activities exclusively in the field of non-profit entertainment. It is an instrument, that of the Art bonus, which is proving truly strategic to give new financial resources to the world of entertainment and culture in general; Art bonus created to support the liberal disbursements destined to interventions on monumental assets of public property, but that it is good to be extended also to the realization of activities in the cultural field. In order to ensure a correct and systematic evaluation of the effectiveness of the interventions and to direct the policies of the Ministry, it is established, as required by the Law on Cinema, but with the appropriate adaptations due to the specificity of the sector, the new body of the Higher Council of the Show. Article 2, paragraph 4, letter n), of the bill, provides for the simplification of the authorization and bureaucratic iter for public entertainment activities and, in particular, the authorization of public security, extending to all entertainment activities the administrative simplification currently provided only for circus activities and travelling entertainment. This is a sensitive issue, on which I have also spoken in an amending phase. Many of the unfairly defined minor shows - unjustly because they are representative of the culture and popular traditions, those spread over the territory - are realized only for the great passion and thanks to the voluntary activity of many enthusiasts: the people of pro loco and voluntary associations. Allow me to call them people, precisely because it consists of a multitude of people who work only for their great passion. I remember that the unique text on the show dates back to 1931 - it is a royal decree - and it is still the basic legal reference that inspires the subsequent measures governing the organization of events of various kinds. Certainly we must not forget the incidents that have occurred, such as that of Turin on 3 June. I come from a province where on August 2 of three years ago, during a popular holiday, due to a completely unpredictable flood four people died. We must not underestimate even the risk of attacks, which, if we are not lucky to have hit Italy, have affected other countries; risk that has inspired recent circulars of the Ministry of the Interior, aimed at strengthening security measures during public demonstrations. On this subject the Government will have to exercise a delegation that allows those who devote themselves to initiatives, that are not only those related to the show, but also to the world of sport and, more generally, to all the situations in which there is a gathering of people, to guarantee the necessary safety, without a stylicide of norms that very often involve an unjustified and excessive number of administrative practices. Before I close, I would like to make a comment on a subject, perhaps the only one, which has raised, in various respects and depending on the individual sensitivities, different considerations and positions, sometimes sharply opposed: the one relating to the use of animals in circuses. We also saw this during the debate in this House. We believe that in this case the delegation entrusted to the Government, without indication of timing, allows a further in-depth analysis of the different thesis, seeking, where possible, the mediation between the different sensibilities, that of those who work in circuses, even with animals, and who legitimately defends their work and that of those who instead believe that this type of work should be exercised without the use of animals. In this speech, I merely emphasized some of the main features of the bill that is submitted to the vote of the Assembly; the vastness and complexity of the issues addressed, moreover, did not allow us to do otherwise. A text shared by the Group of Popular Alternatives, which will vote with conviction. [[Applause from the AP-CpE-NCD and PD Groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-09-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-880.ana.u31	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-09-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-880.ana.u32	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-09-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-880.ana.u33	PETRAGLIA (Misto-SI-SEL). Mr President, we are faced with yet another draft delegation law, which, to be honest, we did not need. Not that it was not necessary to intervene in the public show system in Italy, but surely it would have been useful to avoid a new, umpteenth delegation to the Government and maybe invest real resources. The cuts in culture in recent years have been heavy and not painless and have changed the varied cultural and entertainment world quite a bit. These cuts were not only made by right-wing governments, by those who "do not eat with culture" but also continued in this legislature. The 2017 budget law, in fact, has not added resources to the budget of the Ministry of Cultural Heritage and Activities and Tourism, which has remained inadequate compared to the need to make this area one of the most important for the relaunch of Italy. The new regulation to access the funds of the FUS had created expectations, but then came confirmations from the numbers. In fact we are faced with the substantial definancing of the FUS in the three-year period 2017-2019: the amount for 2016 was 406 million euros, while for 2017 we are just over 362 million euros, for 2018 at 356 million and for 2019 at 357 million euros. And even the 9.5 million that you expect with this law for 2018-2019 and the 22 that you expect for 2020 fail to get to the FUS, at best, not even the amount of 2016. So the numbers bring us back to the raw reality. These data are so real that they cannot be changed even by the triumphalistic storytelling of this law. It is not enough to make an organic measure, as we have been told in the majority speeches, to extend access to the FUS to those who have been excluded from it until now, if resources are not added. The world of entertainment and culture moves in a very difficult framework, to the point that access to public culture is a serious problem. It is no coincidence that the participation of citizens in free events, those obviously promoted by the Ministry and some great municipalities, increases. In a period of severe employment crisis and reduced purchasing power, cultural consumption is cut, but as soon as possible citizens try to satisfy their cultural and intellectual curiosity by participating in every free meeting. The new forms of participation and self-organisation of citizens and cultural operators in support of contemporary art forms are increasing. The cultural occupations of cinemas and theatres, the opening of new associative spaces dedicated to culture, the flourishing of coworking projects often linked to creative and cultural activities are the signal that this world has the strength to rethink and find new models of governance and sustainability because all too often excluded from public funding and support. The third cultural sector also renews itself and seeks a third way between associationism and cultural enterprise, but this time neither have we recognized and planned innovative fiscal interventions and of greater efficiency for some fundamental tools for the functioning of this world. Even the territorial rebalancing (which is not enough just to mention) is entrusted and guaranteed, in particular for the South, by the national operational programmes (NAPs) culture for the South and not by other resources. It is not enough to say that laws that have long been expected are passed, if they do not make subsequent choices and do not invest resources. We have tried to mask cuts in culture by announcing the arrival of funding from private individuals who, apart from those for major events, have not actually arrived. Yesterday the Minister spoke of 180 million from the Art bonus, but at the same time you refused to approve our amendment specifying that private resources are to be considered additional and not substitute for public funding. It is therefore an alibi for public definancing. For access to the FUS, the bill under consideration separates the lyric foundations, responding to a request that has always been made to politics by those involved in the show. But we return to the question: what about the additional resources? We are at the fourth legislative intervention in recent years on lyrical foundations and there are still many open nodes. In recent years, the bad choices of policy and supervisors have been paid for by cutting jobs and unsustainable budgets. It is good that we have set ourselves the objective of recognizing responsibilities, but we know that in the sentence: "the responsibilities established" can hide an endless deception. In recent years politics has preferred to make other choices even before the evidence. Today it is necessary to promote music, through public support and promoting the bond with the territories. It would have been necessary to rearrange the entire musical system (the lyric-symphonic foundations, the orchestral concert institutions, the theatres of tradition) and we would have had to face some nodes, such as (we talked about this very often in the Commission during the hearings) that of the reconstitution of the dance bodies dependent on the lyric foundations and all the typical activities that have been outsourced in recent years, bringing back to work the workers who are currently employed by contractors. Budget balance is one of the objectives, but it cannot mortify the activity of the lyric foundations and the artistic and technical skills of which our country is particularly rich, because it is good to settle the accounts, but it is also good to say once and for all that we must invest in culture. For years we have posed the problem of the stability of jobs precisely to enhance those technical, craft and artistic skills that represent unique experiences for our country and that must be safeguarded maintaining them - I repeat - within the theatres, creating a system precisely to enhance the work. The resources must be public and not only of the State: real resources of the regions and local authorities are needed. Of course, apart from the continuous budget cuts they are subject to. As we have seen in the many reforms on the lyric foundations of these four years, the private resources (Art bonuses, direct interventions with participation in the boards of directors) have not been decisive because no private takes charge of the debts of the public. We would therefore have expected from this bill a recognition of the public function of the theatres, clarifying the status of the lyric foundations, ensuring a strong control of the state over them. Finally, I would like to dedicate one last step to the subject which particularly animated my colleagues who do not belong to the 7th Commission: circuses. We had well accepted the presentation of the measure and the formulation that the Government had made because we had read a long vision from the Government of what is society: the progressive elimination of animals from circuses corresponded precisely to the need to adapt our legislation to the European one in the matter of protection of animals and the gradual disposal would also allow a real renewal of the proposal of circus activities because the data tell us that in recent years also the circus is subjected to a total crisis of participants in the shows. So it would also have been an opportunity to rethink that traditional formula, to turn to a wider and younger audience, perhaps interested in finding new job opportunities, and we would have filled a delay to put ourselves in tune with the sensitivities of public opinion, just as the Minister said yesterday in his reply. Instead, courage has been lacking. You preferred a reading of the country that looks back, you preferred vague formulas to make generic commitments. The debate heard has often been surreal, preliminary and positioning, revealing in many speeches, I must say, even little knowledge of the merit. There were two extremes but two different visions, two different readings of the country and we saw that the majority preferred to choose the most reassuring path, that is, that of conservation. It was not about erasing the circus, but about creating prospects for growth, innovation and research in circus art. We will continue, however, to follow the course of this provision because the vague commitments made for the implementing decrees will be for us to continue this work and this battle, because we also want to look to the future of the performing arts, live entertainment, the spectacle of traditions and circus arts. For all the reasons set out here, the Italian Left will vote against the measure. [[Applause from the Misso-SI-SEL Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-09-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-880.ana.u34	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-09-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-880.ana.u35	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-09-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-880.ana.u36	Montevecchi (M5S). Mr President, first of all, we would also like to thank the rapporteur for her willingness to listen, which she has shown during the examination of this measure, a will which we have not often experienced in this parliamentary term from the opposition's benches. Then I would also like to make some general remarks on the text, specifying that we too would have preferred it not to have the form of a delegation, even if the case of the reordering of such a wide subject perhaps finds some glimmer of justification in addition to the tide of delegations with which we have been flooded during this parliamentary term. We hope, however, that the implementing decrees that will follow the delegation will not end neither the implementing decrees consequent to the so-called good school nor those consequent to the law of reorganization of the cinema sector that we still seem to navigate in the port of the fogs. I must say that the 5 Star Movement, as a force of opposition, has contributed a great deal, during the work of the Commission and of the House, to the examination of this text and also to the "restringing" of the stakes to a delegation that was really so, so wide at the origin. I would also like to take a look at the live performance in general, because this attempt to reorder the relevant legislation to make it more organic and more effective and it is very good to find new forms of support such as the Art Bonus extended to the live show even if, as Mrs Petraglia pointed out before me, we would not want this measure to mask then the will to give private the support of this sector and therefore increasingly reduce public interventions in support. The fresh resources that have been found are also good, although in reality the Fund does not have such an amount that it can provide real support. But let's remember that we must also keep the commitments to include in the schools activities aimed at promoting the arts and the development of a sensitivity and passion that are fundamental to create a society not only intellectually and culturally higher, but also enjoyer and, in doing so, create new audience. At the same time, we could use our amendment to approve our proposal to reduce VAT on ticketing. We know, in fact, that this would certainly benefit from a greater attendance of places of culture not only by young people and students, but also by adults, because today the crisis, alas, affects everyone. There are positive aspects in this bill and proposals of the 5 Star Movement have been accepted, which I will list quickly and with satisfaction. First of all, the proposal to set up a programmatic table to promote the inclusion of live entertainment in the tourist programmes was accepted, a practice that, in reality, is already there, but is not coordinated and is not effective, that is to guarantee a tourist circuit that also takes into consideration live entertainment as a form of attraction for tourists who come to visit our country and, of course, for Italian citizens, especially if we think about the language barrier. We then proposed the introduction of legislation relating to the establishment and supervision of dance schools and the identification of the criteria and requirements for the certification of teaching, with an amendment that bears the signature of Senator Blundo; although, with respect to dance, there remains the strongly critical note that, in view of the delegation to the reconstruction of the classical and contemporary choreutic repertoire and the promotion of artistic production and experimentation, we paradoxically, in reality, the dismantling of a dance corps, that of the Verona Arena, the closure of historical companies and the fact that progressively we have arrived in Italy to have only two stable dance bodies: that of the Milan Scala and that of the Opera Theatre in Rome. We wonder where all these young people of ours will go, who will want to embark on the career of dancers if in Italy we do not have a basin of absorption of all these talents. Moreover, our Bolle says that the dance is ignored and mistreated in Italy. In the field of lyrical-symphonic foundations, the 5 Star Movement fought a lot to review the system of control over the economic-financial and artistic management of foundations, because bad management, so far, has had repercussions only on the artistic and technical masses. We have managed to introduce among the criteria for the allocation of the Single Fund for the show the responsibility of the superintendent for economic and financial management and also the consideration of the artistic and managerial results of the previous three years, with the hope that this leads to a higher quality, but above all that leads to the elimination of the notorious algorithm. Finally, we managed to obtain in this House the so-called Daspo for the superintendents who will demonstrate that they have not been able to manage the foundations well and accurately from an economic and financial point of view and that therefore they can no longer be renamed to play the same role within the lyric-symphonic foundations. We were also able to insert a little bit of a resolution that we had unanimously adopted a couple of years ago: the so-called abandonment map. In fact, the text provides that there is a collaboration between local authorities in order to identify abandoned or confiscated buildings, especially of historical and cultural value, to be dedicated to the carrying out of activities by young people, but also less young, related to live entertainment. It is, in fact, also important to spread, as well as to promote. Finally, this morning, the Government undertook, within the framework of the resources available, to carry out tax credit measures to support the registration or subscription to dance, music or theatre schools for young people between the ages of five and eighteen years and I really hope that in the law of stability this commitment will be honoured; we all commit ourselves to the Government to find these resources. Let's move on to the painful notes. As far as the lyric-symphonic foundations are concerned, we have stood by the selection of supervisors and artistic directors by means of international public calls; and to say that the Minister is so attached to these public calls, including international ones, but obviously, in this area, other logics prevail. The conflict of interest for the members of the governing bodies of the foundations, as well as for the superintendents and artistic directors, has also remained at the stake. So here, too, those dynamics will continue to occur, so that sometimes, as a result of these conflicts of interest, perhaps he won't sing the best tenor or the best soprano in a show or maybe they will be bought some set-ups that could probably not be purchased, as well as materials and so on. As far as national theatres are concerned, we are very sorry that our proposals for reordering legislation on the organisation and operation of theatre schools have not been passed, since there are many, many, unregulated, at the expense of the quality of training, and therefore also our good name in those areas at national and international level. We regret that the proposal to revise the procedures for the appointment of management posts has not been taken into account either, for the same reasons that we had fought so much for the lyrical-symphonic foundations. In our view, the Board of Governors for the Performing Arts is also a body destined to work in opacity, because our proposal for transparency on appointments and works has not been accepted, as the selection of its members has not been accepted, rather than the appointment of its members. Finally, there is nothing concrete about the legal recognition of workers in the sector or the treatment of social security. On the other hand, normative justification has been given to mobility. I shall conclude with three points that are still critical. Nothing has been done and our proposals to remedy the phenomenon of secondary ticketing have not been accepted. A timid attempt has been made, with the adoption of an amendment, on the gradual abandonment of SIAE boiling on musical devices, but nothing has been done to remedy the situation in which SIAE still operates today, a real monopoly, in spite of a Community directive which requires us to do something else. Finally, the world of travelling entertainment has not been heard and we have witnessed a resounding reverse on the use of animals within circus activities. For all these reasons, by considering the fact that we are at the first parliamentary stage and that this measure will come to the House, we will vote in abstention, only because we hope that during the examination by the House there will still be the good will to get the best possible text out of this Parliament. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-09-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-880.ana.u37	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-09-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-880.ana.u38	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-09-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-880.ana.u39	GIRO (FI-PdL XVII). Mr President, I immediately declare that Forza Italia will vote in favour of this measure. I too would like to thank the rapporteur, Mrs Di Giorgi, for her efforts to improve a very different text that had come to the Commission. I am the first to recognize the improvements made to a plural, repetitive and unconcrete structure. However, we have chosen, as Forza Italia, to suspend our judgment because unfortunately this legislature, as I have already mentioned in general discussion, will be remembered as the legislature of the votes of confidence and delegations assigned to the government in the dark. The debate on the code for the show was also an opportunity to promote a historical reconstruction of public administrative, government and parliamentary intervention in favour of culture. The Minister, yesterday in the Chamber, had the courtesy to admit that the results achieved by this Government are the result of a work born from afar. I thank him for this kindness that came to some of my perplexities, but I want to reassure and reassure my party colleagues that we are very different from the Letta governments, then Renzi, today Gentiloni Silveri. We are very different because we for the live show did not exercise a delegation in 2010, but we proposed to the merit committees, before, and to the Assembly, afterward, a system law where everything was written. We didn't delegate the government to do his kitchen in the secret rooms of the building. We faced the House and Senate Commissions and the Assembly with a night sitting, requesting a vote. We could also demand a vote of confidence, which is the extreme ratio to approve a controversial measure. No, we have dealt, if I remember correctly, about twenty hours of continuous session, to reach the approval of law no. 100 of 2010, the famous Bondi law on lyrical-symphonic foundations. I remember this passage because in the code of the show, which consists of seven articles, in essence, as is said in Rome, the fat is found only in article 2, paragraph 1. We could write article 2, paragraph 1 in two periods and we'd be done in five minutes. It is in fact in article 2, paragraph 1, that everything is written down. Such a paragraph previews in fact the delegation to the Government for the drafting of new legislative decrees in order to render implementation no. 160 of 2016 on the lyric-symphonic foundations. So in article 2, paragraph 1, it is not about the code of the show, but about the lyric-symphonic foundations. The same Government in the text that proposed us and that the Commission has approved admits immediately, in article 2, paragraph 1, that the real problem are again lyric-symphonic foundations, providing a new delegation to the Government to write other legislative decrees implementing the law no. 160 of 2016, on lyric-symphonic foundations. In the second period - always of paragraph 1 and always of article 2 - reference is made to the delegation for the reform, revision and reorganization of the current discipline in the fields of theater, music, dance, traveling shows, circus activities and then is added, as news, to the historical carnivals and historical re-enactments. That is, it is a maxi delegation to the Government over everything else. First the bubbon, the lyric-symphonic foundations: delegates to implement the famous law no. 160, so nothing new under the sun. Then, second bubbon: the reform, assigned to a box closed to the Government, everything else, dance, music, theatre, circus, traveling shows, historical carnivals, traditions and historical re-enactments, everything and more. This second part is presented to Parliament with the evocative definition of the entertainment code. Instead, it is a maxi delegation to the Government to legislate on all the areas mentioned. The criteria adopted are generic: promoting the international promotion of Italian works and entertainment, helping young people, promoting citizenship, cultural integration, facilitated credit, access to disability in the show, associationism, contemporary popular music, private participation, 3 percent for schools of every order and grade. All important principles, but they are all poetry. The truth is given by the distribution of existing funds, which are implemented up to €22.5 million in the year of Lord 2020. So we have a big budget that will reach the capacity of 350-360 million and you have to decide how to spend all this money. The only novelty - which I recognize is not irrelevant - is that the famous decrees of the Minister that are in the free prerogative of the government authorities decide and plan, must be concerted with the Regions at a unified conference. There is therefore a closer collaboration with the Regions. This is an important element. Finally - but we must always wait for the criteria that will be regulated by the Minister with the legislative decrees - a stronger synergy between the central state and the regions will be established: first we did not know who did what. However, we are very different - I repeat - from those who preceded us, because we decided in 2010 to face this House and we did so by trying, as you will remember well, to solve at the root the problem of lyrical-symphonic foundations, which represent more than 50% of the expenses incurred by the Single Fund for the show; therefore, when we talk about lyrics we must have this awareness. Whether it's right or not, this is the reality and who makes theater, who dances, who organizes concerts throughout Italy knows that opera has the prevalence both in the strategies of the Government, both in the spending that the Government, the central administration and the Regions will have to support in order to favor the show in Italy. We, with Law No 100 of 2010, the so-called Bondi Act, had promoted a drive towards the efficiency, economics, entrepreneurship and autonomy of all foundations and had imposed on them to adhere to the national employment contract and to eliminate all those supplementary business contracts that had produced a myriad of privileges that were absolutely unmanageable and that had left over 300 million debts on the ground. Today I realize that these debts are struggling to be reabsorbed, that the Government asks us for further delegation and that even on the agenda of Senator Marcucci, President of the Committee on Culture, whom I frankly consider incomprehensible, is asking the Government for more time to address this issue. I remember that we launched the Bondi law to heal, the decree Bray to heal, the decree Franceschini to heal; even the decree Bray gave - who knows why? - a lot of millions at the Maggio musicale fiorentino. I wonder why we must continue to penalise Italian theatre, Italian dance, academies, always having this problem of foundations on our shoulders. Either foundations are managed with transparency and efficiency, or it is better to close them because it means that they are not efficient foundations (according to private law) because they fail - as Bondi recalled in 2010 - to raise funds from private individuals. I quote Bondi: If we hadn't intervened, we would have really let the opera perish in this country. I proposed this measure to save the opera, not to put it in trouble. I have never considered this measure as closed to the confrontation and armored, indeed - and I have mentioned it, we went to the Chamber - I have always considered it an open legislative measure (not a delegation) not only to the parliamentary confrontation between majority and opposition, but also, outside this Chamber, with trade union organisations. So we're very different from this government. I conclude by saying to Minister Franceschini that I do not want to compare myself to him, because I cannot forget - and I would like to draw the attention of my colleagues - that Franceschini, today Minister of Culture, who is doing the reform of the Ministry through administrative acts, by weakening the superintendences, who has done the reform of the cinema with a delegation and is doing the reform of the show with a delegation, is the same man who, Head of the PD, asked in the Chamber of Deputies for the resignation of Minister Bondi after the events of Pompeii. And Pompeii is reborn today because the Berlusconi Government and Minister Bondi have developed a large recovery activity obtaining 110 million from the European Union, thanks to which successive governments have opened 35 yards that have saved Pompeii. [[Senator Floris' applause.]] Therefore, we do not demagogy about culture, we do not ask for the resignation of Minister Franceschini for the collapses in Pompeii, which have continued. We are serious people, we compare ourselves in the Commissions; we do not ask for delegations, we go to the Chamber, we put our face to it. [[Applause from Senator Floris]] and we approve of the measures that we consider appropriate in order to really save - and not for fake - everything and not part of the show in Italy. For all these reasons, we shall abstain on this measure. [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-09-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-880.ana.u40	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-09-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-880.ana.u41	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-09-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-880.ana.u42	Mr Marcucci (PD). Mr President, Mr Undersecretary, ladies and gentlemen, this House is about to vote on a draft law dealing with culture in a legislature which, fortunately, has been very rich in measures and - I add - funding for a vital sector of our country. I say 'luckily', but in reality it is a precise political will. In this case let's examine the bill of delegation on the code of the show, which, as you will remember, was removed from the law on cinema and today finally finds implementation after about thirty years of waiting. One excerpt, although criticized by many colleagues, opportune and useful, wanted by the Senate of the Republic because there was a need to go into detail of the delegations that we gave to the Government, and the dialectic within the Commission and Parliament in general I believe has given good proof of itself. A particularly virtuous measure, in our opinion, because this Parliament has, this time really to the end, exercised its role. In the 7th Commission, which I am honored to chair, some 40 persons and associations in the sector were audited, in order to understand, understand and understand the needs of the operators. They were then discussed, and in many cases adopted, amendments and opinions by senators of both the majority and the opposition. An important work that has borne fruit, in this bill composed of seven articles, which was born with the aim of giving support to the live show, which we consider to be a great wealth for our country. I would like to highlight one of the most significant passages: the one concerning the definition of the Single Fund for entertainment. Up to now the FUS was unique; with this measure it is distinguished between the resources destined to lyric-symphonic foundations and the resources destined to all the rest of the entertainment world. This serves to clarify and give balance and responsibility to operators, including, and perhaps above all, lyrical-symphonic foundations. Then the educational and educational value of the show is recognized, with specific interventions for the school: 3% of the FUS will go to the school with a precise agreement, because tomorrow's spectators are trained on the school benches. Along with 18App, this testifies to what is believed in young people for our future. The code of the show for the first time also concerns carnivals and historical re-enactments, admitted to the delivery of the FUS. It is the culmination of a battle, even personal, to recognize cultural dignity and economic value at manifestations typical of our country and that contribute to the specific Italian and productivity of many local economies. At first I said that this is only the last of so many measures that governments, Renzi before and Gentiloni Silveri today, have defined and financed. I just want to remember the most important: the law on cinema with the creation of a fund of 400 million, with the strengthening of the six measures concerning tax credit; the introduction in the budget law of 2015 of the 500 euro bonus for the cultural consumption of the new adult. This is an important measure - among other things, which was again launched for the second year in these days - which will also affect all those who will turn 18 next year. It was used by an audience of 80 percent of those entitled and mainly concerned the purchase of books. An important step, and with respect to the ministerial implementing decrees of the law on cinema we say that what has been reported in the Chamber is not so precise: many decrees have been not only announced but issued and I believe that that provision, as well as this one we are about to approve, is an excellent law for our country. New funds for heritage protection and major cultural projects: €150 million in 2016, €170 million in 2017; growing funds. Senator Petraglia said that in recent years the funds for culture in Italy have been dramatically cut, alas it is not true: with these governments and thanks to this Parliament, in recent years the funds for culture have increased and even in a substantial way, so much so that the budget of the Ministry of Cultural Heritage and Activities and Tourism has increased by 8% in 2016 and by 10% in 2017: a great result for Minister Franceschini, for the Government and for Parliament. We would also like to mention the Art bonus, which made the tax credit of 65% permanent for the financing of maintenance, protection and restoration of cultural heritage, for the support of institutions and places of public culture, for lyric-symphonic foundations, for the theatres of tradition, as well as for the realization, restoration and strengthening of structures and public institutions of the show, extended precisely with the measure that we are going to vote today to all forms of show and therefore also to festivals and to all subjects and various activities. This is an important step: with the bill under consideration we ask Italian citizens and entrepreneurs to help our entertainment activities and to support them in the forms and with the necessary freedom, and we do so by giving them an important tax facilitation. It is an invitation to the whole country to believe in our cultural activities. I conclude this brief roundup with the measure that has made 20 great Italian museums autonomous, with the international call that has selected 13 Italians, three Germans, two Austrians, one British and one French in their direction and that is giving excellent results: I can also say this following the recent visit, carried out with my colleagues from the Commission last week, to Pompei and the Reggia di Caserta. The current legislature is a particularly rich and happy legislature for culture, crowned by the delegation law on the show that we are voting for. This is a measure that has been awaited for decades, which has been improved by the constant work of Parliament and the rapporteur, Senator Di Giorgi, whom I particularly thank and - I repeat - many other colleagues in the majority as well as oppositions. Today, for example, on the issue of SIAE, a small important step has been introduced which will facilitate cultural operators throughout the territory. Moreover, the question of circuses, which has occupied, for hours, much of the debate in this House, has been defined in a very clear, simple and respectful way of our tradition and with a very precise perspective, respecting the circus tradition, but also virtuous for the future and for the modernity of our circus tradition. Good work has been done in the Commission in the referee, in close contact with the Government, giving a serious response to the right expectations of cultural workers, who have been waiting too long for the proper protection of their rights: a special delegation goes in this direction and we are very proud to have written it. It is a clear political act, which follows a fair trace of continuity, which makes culture an absolute priority of government activity. Italy is culture, it is cultural activity and cultural production: we had a duty to deal with it in our institutional capacity and I am therefore proud of the work done together and I am happy to announce the strong vote in favour of this measure. [[Applause from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-09-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-880.ana.u43	We now come to the examination of the C1 coordination proposal, which has already been distributed, which I would ask the rapporteur to explain.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-09-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-880.ana.u44	Mr President, the proposal is very short. Simply, in paragraph 4 of Article 2, as amended by amendment 2.218 (text 2), only the words "f - bis" are replaced by the words: "f - bis", the forecast of the progressive over-dosing" with the following: "+5", the progressive over-dosing" is replaced by the following: "+5", the progressive overdosing is replaced by the following: "+5", the progressive overdoing is replaced only by the words "f - bis", the progressive overdosing is replaced by the following: "+5", the progressive overdosing is replaced by the following: "+5", the progressive overdosing is replaced only by the words: "f - bis", the progressive overdoes are replaced only. The wording is therefore more stringent.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-09-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-880.ana.u45	Pursuant to Rule 103 (5) of the Rules of Procedure, I put to the vote the proposal for coordination C1, tabled by the rapporteur. It's approved. Pursuant to Rule 120 (3) of the Rules of Procedure, I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of the bill n. 2287-a, as a whole, in the amended text, with the following title: Provisions in the matter of entertainment and delegations to the Government for the reordering of the matter. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). [[Applause from the PD Group]] Consequently, the draft law no. 459 and 1116.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-09-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-880.ana.u46	The next item is the continuation of the debate on draft law Nos. 951 and 1082. In the absence of the representatives of the League Group, Senator D'Alì is enrolled to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-09-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-880.ana.u47	Mr President, I am not seeking to replace the League Group.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-09-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-880.ana.u48	Since there were senators from the League on the list of members to speak, I just wanted to point out that, in their absence, we begin with you as a member to speak. I know it's not a replacement surgery.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-09-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-880.ana.u49	D'ALI' (FI-PdL XVII). Mr President, I shall use the opportunity to speak on a draft law which may seem marginal or irrelevant to say things that I have tried for a long time to bring to the attention of Members of this House on the subject of local authorities. The bill may seem irrelevant, but it is extremely significant. We treat of the will of a municipal community to pass from the Region of belonging to another Region, however, happens, the passage is from a Region to an ordinary statute to a Region with special statute, where we know that the total agibilità of the local authorities is certainly treated more carefully. 18.34 (Follow D'ALI'). By this I mean that the regions with special status certainly enjoy greater autonomy in relations with the local authorities; they have the possibility to determine erial transfers in a different way from the regions with ordinary statutes: in short, they have a different possibility of interlocation with the local authorities. We, once again, although now having a small "hot potato" in our hands, do not want to address the great theme of the government of the territory, of the crushing of the government of the territory in an excessive number in my opinion of Municipalities and Regions, and the great theme of the continuity of the existence of Regions with special status. That is why I have asked for action: not so much to make judgments about the community of Sappada, which legitimately uses regulatory forecasts to better decide its institutional location, but because this House and Parliament in general continue to refuse to address the great issue of the government of the territory and, above all, the local authorities. This is an issue that I asked for to be addressed when we discussed constitutional reform; this request was rejected by the Government and the majority as an essential part of constitutional reform. I believe, instead, that the reform of the government of the territory is the main topic of a possible constitutional reform, because our country, which is pointed out as one of the countries that uses more resources in maintaining a political and bureaucratic apparatus parcelled on the territory, cannot, in my opinion, continue to bear the costs of such a high fragmentation and of such a different autonomy of the local authorities and the regions within the same national context. Ours, unfortunately, is no longer a nation but is a agglomeration of Regions: in fact twenty-one (too many), absolutely in exorbitant number, all of them disconnected and all of them able to deal differently with relations with the municipalities and local authorities, so much so that this type of request is born. Requests - I repeat - absolutely legitimate from the point of view of the country's regulatory system, but on which we have to question ourselves. We cannot but wonder why a municipality asks to move from one region to another and, in this particular case, from a region with an ordinary statute to a region with a special statute. We cannot but wonder why voluntary mergers between municipalities are still so few in our country; why the incentive tools for administrative simplification in the area of local government do not exist; why, as far as health is concerned, for example, we still have twenty-one "regional systems" for sixty million inhabitants, some of whom concern a few hundred thousand citizens, with apparatus and regulations and often with inability to dialogue with one another. Thus it becomes almost a kind of fortune for the citizen to be born in a municipality or in a region rather than in another because of the diversity of treatment that he can receive depending on his place of residence or birth. Therefore, these moments of transfer are also born: once the serfs of the gleba were transferred from one manor to another, now the municipalities are transferred from one region to another, of course changing also the status of agility regarding the services of the citizens. This bill will certainly pass. I repeat, it falls within the absolute legitimacy of the regulatory system of our country and, therefore, it is a request that we have a duty to examine. Of course, we do not question why in these hours a much more complex and certainly deeper situation, such as the independence of Catalonia, is even the subject of arrests by the Spanish Government, only to avoid the referendum on separation (or independence, as is best said for this type of situation by those who propose them). We do not question each other, but we continue to hold a country that has been broken down from an institutional point of view. The birth of the Special Statute Regions had its own logic in the immediate post-war period and also had its own logic in some episodes related to the existence of the Western bloc against the Communist bloc, as regards the Border Regions, and in the defense of some ethnic groups and some communities linguistically different from the national one. But now, in a Europe to which we continue to refer and which should be made up of ever wider and increasingly homogeneous realities, it is difficult to keep thinking about these plants. Unless we want to think that the Europe of the so-called regions is then aimed, in the sense that it has as its final outlet the possibility of no longer being the Europe of the Nations, but of being only the Europe of the territories. I hope that these reflections, which I think may be trivial, will soon become the subject of an overall reflection on the part of Parliament and its branch in particular, where, not in order to make institutional bell-towerism, I believe that a little more is being done than the other branch, especially on profound facts such as the one underlying this bill. I hope that soon we will be able to discuss a reform of the so-called Title V, which however concerns not only the organizational aspect, but also the fundamental principles of the Republic. We need to clarify exactly what we mean by federalism, where we never keep talking about it, since it seems to me a word that has gone into decline, and above all we should deepen the overall structure of the government of the territory, in identifying the vast area of government. You have made a reform of the Provinces crying vengeance before God, as well as men. Despite having approved the agenda Ranucci, during the constitutional debate, you do not want to enter the perspective of the revision of the plant of the Regions, because that is the sore point, also from the point of view of the country's budget. We have twenty-one entities out of control: out of control in spending, out of control in the dynamics and quality of this expenditure. We continue, in the same Mezzogiorno of Italy, to have the parcelling of the European funds for Regions; therefore no major infrastructure plans are made that are truly interregional. These things are not just my words; before me they have also said illustrious economists of the left-wing area, such as Nicola Rossi, who has repeatedly raised the alarm about the misuse of European funds, in the absence of an overall strategy of vast territory. From these small episodes, we take the cue for a great debate about the real reorganization of the government of the country's territory, with a view to reducing costs, improving services and providing citizens with equal treatment, wherever they reside in our nation, because we are really in the presence of a diversity and unequal treatment in the services essential to the citizen, which I believe does not have equal in other nations of Europe. [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-09-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-880.ana.u50	Senator Pegorer is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-09-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-880.ana.u51	Mr President, I believe that the attention with which the community of Sappada and a large part of the Friulian population have long been looking at the legislative process relating to the passage of the Dolomite Municipality to the Friuli-Venezia Giulia Region cannot escape the House. This attention is based, in particular, on a number of historical, cultural and linguistic reasons, which go beyond any strictly political consideration. As mentioned by the rapporteur, the institutional process for the passage of the Municipality of Sappada from Veneto to Friuli-Venezia Giulia was launched in July 2007, when the municipal council of the mountain resort decided to hold an advisory referendum. This referendum took place on 9 and 10 March 2008 and, with the participation of 903 voters out of 1,199 entitled, the result was 860 voters in favour, that is 95.2% of the voters, against just 41 votes against. I also recall that on 18 March 2009 the Provincial Council of Udine approved an agenda in favour of the request for citizenship of Sappada and that the Regional Council of Friuli-Venezia Giulia, on 23 November 2010, and that of Veneto, on 28 June 2012, expressed the same favourable opinion. These, in a nutshell, were the institutional passages of an iter now ten years old, which comes from the widespread feeling in the community of the Municipality of Sappada to be part of the administrative field of Friuli, a territory towards which they feel more related and linked by deep historical and cultural reasons. These are passages and procedures which, to be seen, undoubtedly mark the expression of a clear will and the consequent pursuit of a well-defined shared political objective, which, in my opinion, Mr President, this House cannot deny at all. I still remember that Sappada is located in the geographical area of the eastern Dolomites, in that mountain territory that extends from the Province of Belluno to Friuli, and it is precisely in the mountainous territory of Friuli that stretches towards Carnia that Sappada has always found its natural and historical reference point. While from a geographical and naturalistic point of view there are clear contacts with the Friuli area, also on the historical level the links with Friuli are strong and rooted. Over the centuries, in fact, the territory of Sappada was linked to the Friulian one on the administrative level starting from the 11th century, when the first inhabitants of Sappada, coming from Tyrol, at the invitation of the Counts of Gorizia, granted the patriarch of Aquileia to reside in that territory where they still live today. This political and administrative link remained intact with the Republic of Venice, starting in 1500, and, after a brief French domination, remained under the government of the Habsburgs. Only at the end of the nineteenth century the town was detached from the Province of Udine to pass to that of Belluno. This passage, however, left intact various ties with Friuli, starting from the belonging of the parish town to the Archdiocese of Udine. Finally, it is worth remembering that during the Second World War Sappada was part of the Free Republic of Carnia, sharing, also on the occasion of the Resistance and the struggle of Liberation, the destiny of neighbouring Carnia and Friuli. Mr President, the particular feature of the community of Sappada is the language: the sappadini, in fact, speak a Germanic dialect, which represents the greatest identifying element of that community. It is the same type of dialect of Germanic strain spoken in the communities of Sauris and Timau in Friuli-Venezia Giulia. Also on this level, therefore, the passage of Sappada to Friuli-Venezia Giulia would be configured as the natural recomposition of a historical linguistic oasis that would find additional possibilities for promotion and protection within the existing rules in the Autonomous Region of Friuli-Venezia Giulia. It is clear, Mr President, how the request of the citizens of Sappada to return to their natural territory of Friuli-Venezia Giulia is the feeling of a community that intends to be located in the territorial and administrative context that feels more precisely for historical and cultural reasons. It is therefore a question of giving an adequate response to a request entirely based on the historical and cultural point of view, as I said, which has covered the whole process provided for by the legislative provisions in force in this area. A request, it is worth repeating, that has received the assent, I said earlier, of the regional councils of both the regions concerned: Veneto and Friuli-Venezia Giulia. I believe that giving a positive response in this sense is necessary, both for the community of Sappada, that now for a decade waits for the achievement of this objective, that for the mountain of Friuli that would see so recompose that natural historical, cultural and linguistic unity that can be one of the factors of possible revival of the same Friulian mountain territory, territory of which the citizens of Sappada intend to be part in full title. [[Applause from the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and ……]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-09-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-880.ana.u52	Senator Rizzotti is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-09-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-880.ana.u53	Mr President, the draft law before us consists of a single article governing the procedure for the detachment of the Municipality of Sappada from Veneto and its aggregation with the Region of Friuli. Obviously the forecast contained in the text under consideration follows a referendum in the local community of Sappada that, in a plebiscitary way, has chosen to join the Region with which it borders, leaving the Veneto Region, to which it belongs so far, in the punctual respect of the constitutional forecast in the matter and the procedures related to it. Sappada is a small municipality - only 1,317 inhabitants - close to the homonymous summit, on the Carnic Alps, crossed by the river Piave. A few days ago it became the honour of the chronicles because on the main road it passed the Giro d'Italia. It is governed by a mayor, two Councillors and ten Councillors who make up the City Council. The history of Sappada, which started in the 10th century, is all linked to the province of Udine, which left in 1853, to pass to that of Belluno which then, in 1866, was annexed to Italy. In the village, which is a place with a strong tourist vocation to which many of my childhood memories are linked, being close to an extraordinary environmental heritage, there are also three different museums (Ethnographic Museum Giuseppe Fontana, Casa Museo della civiltà rurala and Piccolo Museo della grande guerra) and a great variety of cultural, artistic and tourist initiatives. In short, a living reality that, considering its origin and its history, is certainly more recognized in the Friulian reality than in the Venetian one. In the search for one's own tradition and culture and in the recognition of Sappada as a German-speaking linguistic island, even a vocabulary of the Sappadino dialect was developed, born from the need to standardize the writing of the dialect and to create an instrument within the reach of anyone who wants to consult it. There are many other cultural initiatives that highlight the search for their origins and the valorization of their territory. Many are the customs and ways of life that sappadini share with Friulians, as well as sharing the economic model, the river and the mountains. Their choice must be respected and, for us who are parliamentarians, honored, given that the procedure requires Parliament to sanction it officially, through the adoption of a special law, as provided for in Article 132 of the Constitution. We must, however, ask ourselves deeply why this will, this desire for small municipalities neighbouring Regions with special status such as Friuli or the Province of Trento and Bolzano to request what Sappada will probably get. Of course: they know that they could offer better services and in larger quantities than other Italian municipalities that, in recent years of unelected governments, have seen themselves cut resources and, at the same time, make them responsible for providing services and more services for legislative measures. I am referring, for example, to the meritorious measure on autistic people whose implementation falls on local authorities, as well as the protection of unaccompanied minors; I could make a long list, including the fact that they have to deal, always with the funds cut off by the central government, with the reception of migrants. However, it is right to go along with the wishes of the citizens of Sappada, even if, unfortunately, I think this will trigger the envy of many neighbouring municipalities. [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII and Senator Langella.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-09-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-880.ana.u54	Senator Sonego is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-09-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-880.ana.u55	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I take the floor on this measure, first of all by addressing the Government, to which I have actually addressed myself in recent weeks; and I am addressing the Government, even though it is a measure of parliamentary initiative (I am aware of that). I addressed the Government with a correspondence addressed to the President of the Council, with whom I urged the Commission to work to ensure that this measure could be withdrawn. If these are the steps I have taken, it goes without saying that there are, for my part, reservations on the draft law in question, which I will now try to illustrate. These reservations are constitutional in nature and raise and refer to political issues, including international issues, on which the Senate should be warned. I come to the question of a constitutional nature, stating, first of all, that I do not escape at all that on an identical matter - the one concerning the passage of a Piedmontese municipality to the Valle d'Aosta - the judge of the laws has already ruled that there is no violation of the constitutional dictation, nor of the statutes of the Valle d'Aosta Region, in providing for this passage by means of an ordinary law. On that sentence there was a doctrinal discussion of a certain interest and intensity that I believe is good not to neglect. In any case, I believe that the Senate and then the House, in case the measure should have the green disk from this House, and Parliament in general is well aware of the great institutional and constitutional delicacy - and consequently also political - of the tampering of the territorial division of a region with special statute by means of an ordinary legislative provision. The first great criticism I make of this bill is the fact that the passage is effected through an ordinary legislative procedure, rather than the constitutional one with four readings. But - it will be said - I have just said that the Constitutional Court has expressed a favourable opinion. I would remind the Government that, when it was the Council of Ministers that took the legislative initiative to move forward the passage of a Municipality of an ordinary Region towards a Region with special statute, the Council of Ministers itself was cautious - and not by chance - proposing a constitutional bill and not an ordinary one. This has happened in many cases over the years: for Livinallongo, for Lamon and I could cite other cases again. We must consider that the case history to which we refer in these events is not of one or two municipalities; let's say that there is a very substantial waiting list, in particular in the Veneto Region, for the transit to Friuli-Venezia Giulia and the Autonomous Provinces of Trento or Bolzano. Therefore, returning to the question of constitutional character, prudence and attention, they would have liked to have chosen the path of the constitutional bill. This is because we must know that with a measure of an ordinary nature opens a door of a procedural nature that, in the relations between the ordinary Regions, the Regions with a special statute, the Autonomous Provinces and the State, opens a path that begins but objectively we do not know where and how it can end. There is a second question. The motivation for which the Sappadina community decides to join Friuli - it has already been pointed out that it is a Germanic community that wants to join the national or ethnic community of Friuli - is based on the criterion of the reunification of ethnicity or the reunification of the nation. I then put a problem to the House, and I put it to the House to put it to the Republic. If the Republic and, for it, this Assembly decide that the inspiring and driving criterion for the passage of a Municipality from one Region to another, regardless of whether it is autonomous or ordinary Regions, is that of ethnic reunification or of the nation, I believe that the Republic opens again a dense path of important questions points. I'll explain. We are talking here about internal borders, but if this is the criterion and if the Republic does so, it is difficult not to argue - indeed, even more so - that the unity of ethnicity and the nation must not inspire the definition of international borders. And this criterion contrasts with all the inspiring motives of the entire republican history in the definition of borders. The Treaty between Italy and Austria on the solution of the South Tyrolean question is based on the opposite assumption; the Treaty of Osimo, which leaves beyond the border, in Yugoslavia at that time, in Slovenia and today's Croatia, Italian communities, is founded on the opposite assumption, and is also a presupposition contrary to that according to which in our Friuli-Venezia Giulia Region there are Slovenian communities and national German, Austrian communities. If the Republic does so, it opens a dangerous road, which I do not think we have to go. I conclude by saying that, on the basis of that reasoning, in Friuli-Venezia Giulia we could welcome in our territory the Municipality of Sappada, but we should give Tarvis and Pontafel to Austria, which we today call Tarvisio and Pontebba. And we should give - not return - to Slovenia a municipality whose members (they are Italian citizens of Slovenian nationality), call Repentabor, but which we call Monrupino in Italy. Similarly, we should ask for the return of Koper, which is now called Koper in Slovenia, and also for the return of Croatian Pula, which the Croatians call Pula. On the basis of these considerations, I would once again urge the Government to ensure that the measure is withdrawn. In doing so, I also express a political opinion, which is not only based on a localistic and regionalistic approach, but takes into account what Italy is like today in the European context and what relations, fortunately very positive and collaborative, are with neighbouring national states, in which there are also Austrian citizens with an Italian name, Austrian citizens of Slovenian nationality, and so on. It is a piece of history that we have decided to overcome, leaving aside the idea that borders were or should be defined on the basis of the criterion of ethnic or national homogeneity. [[Applause from the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and ……]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-09-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-880.ana.u56	Senator Bellot is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-09-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-880.ana.u57	Mr President, the Government, ladies and gentlemen, today is a day that I do not hesitate to define historic, both because of the importance of the measure that we are called upon to examine, and because of the fact that this draft law has, to say the least, dealt with, risking being bogged down in Parliament because, as I shall specify better later, of incomprehensible and short-sighted political vetoes. It is therefore with great emotion that I am speaking in this Chamber, more than a year after that 16 March 2016, which has seen an unbearable act taken against those who have not presented this bill, but of the sappadini themselves, who confidently trusted in the beginning of an institutional process that would bring them those answers that have never been given to date. Responses that have been waiting for since 2008. Answers that you deliberately chose to postpone. It has been a year during which I have never stopped asking, even with the presentation of questions, to schedule the bill that brings "Distacco" of the municipality of Sappada from the Veneto Region and its aggregation to the Friuli-Venezia Giulia Region. I asked all of you colleagues, the group leaders, the president of the Senate, with whom we also met with the referendaries, through that committee that led in July 2007 to the decision of the City Council of Sappada n. 33, with which the request for a referendum was made. A silent but effective work, uninterrupted, despite different resistances even by those who now rid the battle. The important thing, however, is always the goal. Now, one step from completion - if not today, probably tomorrow - we want to proceed in practice by speeding up the process of approval and the subsequent timetable in the other branch of Parliament that I want to believe will not find any other instrumental obstructions. A referendum with the question of: Do you want the territory of the Municipality of Sappada to be separated from the Veneto Region to become an integral part of the Friuli-Venezia Giulia Region? To this question, I would remind you, the sappadina population responded with a vote expressed on 9 and 10 March 2008: out of 1,199 eligible voters, 903 voters, 75.3%, and 860 sappadini, 95%, voted for the yes. The whole population has expressed a clear will, a confirmed and affirmed yes. Clear, clear the result in the numbers, a plebiscite to show how the population has given voice to that feeling for which evident is the affinity with the karst communities. With them, in fact, since always, the sappadini share territory, values, destiny and even discomfort of those who live in the mountains, on the edge of a Region, Veneto, which has not been able to grasp the difficulties, isolation, the historical and geographical context. The geographical, historical-cultural and socio-economic motivations contained in the summary document prepared by the committee of Sappada are the confirmation that since times do not suspect the sappadini are very close to the neighbouring Friulians, they share the same ways of life, the same customary laws, perspectives and hopes for the future, as well as ethnic, linguistic and cultural ties. Hence the reasons that led to the overcoming of the double quorum: geographical contiguity, the same economic and social structure, cultural historical proximity. A popular pronunciation out of political schemes or lines, but only a clear and strong confirmation of an uneasiness that the referendum outcome could and can overcome. [[Brusio.]] Mr President, I find it difficult to continue my speech with this murmur, could you ask my fellow Members to be quiet? [[Recalls of the President]] Strong demand for self-government and Alpine administration that all municipalities referendaries (and there are many) expressed with the same determination. There is a strong need for autonomy, the same request that will now be possible to express for the Province of Belluno with the referendum in the election day of 22 October, autonomy that I had already asked for in the constitutional reform with a precise amendment, the fate of which is unfortunately known to all. But I would like to focus again on the fundamental part, the centre of this measure, namely the referendum, the mother of every choice, a democratic instrument to give voice to the citizens, an instrument that must be respected and that must be respected. But these years of waiting, with false illusions such as that of March 16 last year, are really at risk of taking away trust in the institutions, institutions which are very late in giving an answer, in fulfilling constitutional duties. And there can be no discount on those who use the popular will for mere calculations of political opportunity, in whatever way that happens. Just think of the inappropriate action, probably agreed - I would certainly say agreed - of the Province of Belluno that, having expressed a favourable opinion a few years ago, the day before the debate of 16 March 2016 scheduled in the Assembly of the Senate voted an agenda with a really absurd request, that to supersede, through the vote of a document as timely, as embarrassing. As I said, the discussion never took place because of an unbridled withdrawal of the bill without any motivation, without even trying to support or justify an offensive choice towards the sappadini, who at home were waiting to finally have a response to their great and correct - I repeat: correct - commitment. A bad page of local politics, linked to an equally bad page of Roman politics, sometimes too far away from the problems of countries on the margins and borders of our nation and which, among other things, fall into mountain areas. The emotion of that March 16, shared with the sappadini and turned off in a moment, leads me today to be cautious before expressing satisfaction for a path that saw just in the front line, with constant commitment, the work of those who, alongside the referendaries has always been with me, Flavio Tosi, secretary of the Fare!, who even before his expulsion - and I would like to emphasize that expulsion has been - from the League had signed and supported concretely the sappadini in this choice. He believed and supported immediately those who, through a referendum, expressed the sacrosanct will to become part of another region, unlike those who did not take into account the needs of citizens, of the mountain, and tries to hinder a battle of freedom, carried out in respect of the positions of all, even those who now make themselves spokesperson riding battles not own to seek consent. Too comfortable, too easy. That is why, Mr President, I conclude my speech here, and I reserve the right to state the conclusions of the Fare component. In the course of my final statement before the vote, which we all hope will be positive and favourable, while respecting the citizens of Sappada and a democratic instrument that still exists in the Constitution. I will then also give our views on what has happened and on the lack of sensitivity and courage, but rather on the lack of democracy that has been demonstrated in this House and on the part of those who have opposed this measure. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator Cappelletti is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-09-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-880.ana.u58	Mr President, representative of the Government, fellow senators, this measure that proposes the detachment of the Municipality of Sappada from the Veneto Region and its passage to Friuli-Venezia Giulia, has disappeared from the agenda of this Assembly since March 2016, i.e. for over eighteen months. Its arrival in Parliament last year had given rise to many expectations for the citizens of Sappada, who had already been waiting for this pronunciation for more than nine years, since the referendum that saw 95% of the citizens of Sappada vote in favour of the posting is dated even 2008. We are in 2017 and have not yet been able to give an answer to this legitimate request. Of the 1,199 who were entitled to vote, in the municipal referendum of 2008 they voted for the yes in 860 (95 percent of the voters); there was, in essence, a manifestation of net will in favour of the administrative transfer of the Municipality from the Veneto Region to Friuli-Venezia Giulia. A basically univocal will of the citizens, therefore, out of all discussion. Talking about the passage of the Municipality of Sappada from Veneto to Friuli-Venezia Giulia means, therefore, talking about referendums and the importance that we attach, as a political force, to this important instrument of direct democracy. Of course, ladies and gentlemen, I am fully aware that, when it comes to referendums, there is a certain amount of annoyance in the members of many parties represented in Parliament. The word " referendum" as well as "popular sovereignty" bother you. Just think of the unexpected referendum on public funding for parties: it was annoying, as it was annoying that on public water. Let's think about the sabotage of the Democratic Party and the majority of the referendum against the drills, just to mention the best known cases. Of course, in this case we are talking about a referendum of minor importance, which concerns a single Municipality, even a small one, of Veneto; but for the respect of this manifestation of popular sovereignty the Province of Belluno and that of Udine have also expressed themselves. The Regional Councils of Veneto and Friuli-Venezia Giulia also expressed their support for the posting. Who else is to be expressed? We do not see, therefore, a reason to oppose it. We are well aware that there are political forces in Parliament which do not respect the will of the people at all and certainly not for reasons of geographical, historical, cultural, economic, religious, political or linguistic nature. If we go to see, each of these reasons, on the contrary, would lay down for an immediate adhesion of Sappada to Friuli-VeneziaGiulia, rather than to Veneto. It seems rather that the opposition shown by some, and not shared by us, is based on the desire not to create a precedent deemed dangerous. We'll see what happens next. My conclusion, at this point, is predictable: the 5 Star Movement is in favour of the recognition of the right of self-determination of this community. It is in favour of all legitimate demonstrations of direct democracy and is in favour, first and foremost, of the referendum. For these reasons, we welcome the proposal to detach the Municipality of Sappada from the Veneto Region and its consequent passage to the Province of Udine, in Friuli-Venezia Giulia. [[Applause from the M5S Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-09-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-880.ana.u59	He's enlisted to speak Senator Marin. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-09-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-880.ana.u60	Mr President, members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen, we are talking about Sappada tonight and it is a debate that has been going on for years, since the referendum with which the citizens of Sappada, about 1,300 inhabitants, voted for the detachment of the Municipality from the Veneto Region and its aggregation with the Friuli-Venezia Giulia Region, dates back to 2008. The quorum for these referendums is very high and the people who voted yes were more than 95%: it is very much. And why are we discussing this? I say this as a Venetian, of course, and I am sorry to think that a municipality leaves our region to move on to another. Do we discuss this perhaps because the sappadini, in their history, in their culture, in their traditions feel closer to the Province of Udine than that of Belluno? I don't think that's just the point. It is true that the history of the Municipality of Sappada leads to look towards Friuli, at least until 1835 - I may be wrong in the date of a few years - but that cannot be the only point. The issue is much more complex. Sappada, this municipality bordering the East of our region, looks to a region with special status. It is true that the decision taken in the referendum seems to me almost binding on Parliament: this branch of Parliament, as well as the House of Members, will not be able to block something unavoidable. But I ask why we have come to this and, of course, it is the responsibility of politics. I listened to a colleague - who probably has a negative opinion on the measure under consideration and perhaps will vote no, at least from what I understood from his speech, while mine is a favorable opinion - who explained why we have arrived at this and it is also true that there will be or could follow an avalanche: there are about 28 Venetian municipalities looking to the East, that is to Friuli-Venezia Giulia, and 35 municipalities looking to the West, towards Trentino-Alto Adige. Let us therefore ask ourselves what are the conditions of the municipalities that are in a border position with respect to these regions and what are the socio-economic conditions of their inhabitants. In this case we are talking about a municipality of just over 1,000 inhabitants, with a strong tourist vocation. These are small municipalities, we are not talking about the Municipalities of Milan, Rome, Naples, Venice, Bologna or Florence, that is the big cities (I specifically wanted to mention cities governed by administrations of different colors and therefore without any controversy intent), small realities where the services offered by the Municipalities are, if possible, even more fundamental. Often for transport or municipal police, as the local administrator knows, these small municipal realities are forced to get together in order to move forward. In these cases there are economic differences with the neighbouring territories of the Regions with special status, which today - I say this with respect for all the Regions in question - appear increasingly anachronistic. In fact, one thing is to talk about autonomy, one thing is to talk about something else and then I will have an impact on what will happen in Veneto and Lombardy on 22 October. It is clear that conditions are difficult. The referendum is in 2008: what has politics done in the meantime? Think of the Delrio Law on Provinces, which massacred the Provinces themselves and thus the possibility of helping small municipalities. What have politics and government done with regard to the associations of border municipalities and to the measures of the center-right government, led by Berlusconi, which provided funds for the associations of border municipalities? Nothing has been done and the funds have been completely cut! I say this with regret: it is clear that the sappadini look forward to this measure, because they are already there with their heads. I don't know if they are so with my heart, but they are definitely there for everything that concerns the interests of your territory. In order to avoid the avalanche of which a colleague spoke, which I believe at this moment is of majority, being part of a Group deriving from one of the divisions of the PD, let us look at what will happen on 22 October in Veneto and in Lombardy. There will be a referendum on autonomy, on which we have already announced our vote in favour. We know that it will be a consultative referendum, but also the referendum on Brexit was such, it was not mandatory; then Cameron resigned and what happened happened, because there is the will of the people and politics cannot think of being always self-referential, of closing in the rooms of the palaces and not looking out. If in Veneto, on 22 October, a large percentage of Venetians will vote to say that they want autonomy, that will be a strong voice. It is not the referendum of a party in Veneto, but the referendum of the Venetians. I hope that my Venetian co-regionals will vote strongly for the yes, because we are in favour of the referendum. The same will happen in Lombardy and it will become inevitable that this practice will be followed by other regions. Politics cannot live in palaces, but what the people say counts. Sometimes I hear that there are political forces that are not good and that are not suitable, but everyone is right and everyone is good when the people give them the vote. We must recall this principle: in small terms, this is what happened with Sappada. In Sappada the people of the Sappadini said clearly, I believe also with regret, that they want to leave one Region and be allocated to another. Is that a little something? Can politics let it go? I would urge the policy to take note of what is happening, which today concerns this small town, but which already affects many others. In order to avoid what can become a Slav, an avalanche, a difficulty, politics must run to the shelter. In this sense we Venetians run for shelter on 22 October. We want to give a very strong signal of autonomy. I believe that many other regions will do so, but we must certainly go along with the will of the sappadini today and vote yes. [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-09-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-880.ana.u61	She is registered to speak Senator Fasiolo. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-09-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-880.ana.u62	Mr President, like other colleagues, I have to say that we have come with great satisfaction to respond positively to a widespread and shared feeling of a community that wants to belong to Friuli-Venezia Giulia and since 2007 asks to do so. It's been a while. We're finally getting there and with this government, after so many years of stagnation. I express satisfaction for the discussion in the Hall of the bill no. 951, "Distacco" of the municipality of Sappada from the Veneto Region and its aggregation to the Friuli-Venezia Giulia Region, at the first signature of the deputy De Monte, and of the bill no. 1082, at the first signature of Senator Bellot. The draft laws originate from a very articulated procedural process, which has seen in the history of the community of Sappada various mobilizations of popular initiative. I cite two particularly significant examples, such as the collection of signatures promoted by the Sappadino parish priest at the time, among the heads of families in the mid-1960s, and the consultative referendum of 2008, both with very high percentages of participation and a almost total favor (95 percent in 2008) for the passage of Sappada to Friuli-Venezia Giulia. The same two regional administrations, Veneto and Friuli-Venezia Giulia, the one originator and the other receiver, expressed themselves positively on the passage, endorsed by the Provinces and the 28 mayors of the Municipalities of Carnia. There are, of course, historical reasons that explain the genesis of the proposal linking it to the DNA of the sappadini, more similar to the neighboring communities of Carnia (Friuli-Venezia Giulia) compared to Veneto, by language (germanofona and Friulian like the Carnic Municipalities of Sauris and Timau), culture and history. There is spoken a German-speaking language, an ancient German dialect, similar to that of the Carnic Municipalities of Sauris and Timau, both located in Carnia. It is a linguistic island, therefore, that shares a minority culture and centuries-old traditions with sister islands of Friuli. The Friulian minority language also lives there. Let's remember that the annexation to Belluno took place under the Austrian Empire in 1852, therefore to be considered, with reason, recent, if we consider that the relationship with the diocese of Udine has been a constant over the centuries, of which it is still part today. It should be remembered that in the Great War the civil population of Sappadina participated in the supply of troops on the eastern front with the movement passed to history like that of the Carnic carriers, who risked their lives climbing the front to feed the troops. Also in the Second World War, in 1944, Sappada before the arrival of the allied troops was part of the Free Republic of Carnia. To come today, I highlight that the cultural and economic relations of Sappada, clearly oriented to Friuli-Venezia Giulia, are strong and daily. It is worth pointing out, as far as the motivations closest to us are concerned, that even in the sport Sappada lives an integration with Friuli-Venezia Giulia rather than with Veneto. Suffice it to say that the Nordic sport association Chamosci, from which international champions such as Silvio Fauner and Pietro Piller Cottrer, Marina Piller, Lisa Vittozzi and many others have come out, has always been part of the Friuli-Venezia Giulia committee. The same applies to the Ski Club Sappada, an Alpine skiing association that is part of the Friuli Venezia Giulia committee and, finally, the local ASD Calcio Sappada, which has always been active in the carnival championship. Also from a strategic and military point of view, Sappada is part of Friuli. Until a few years ago there was in fact in Sappada a barracks of the Alpina Brigade Julia (not of the Cadore): the Fasil barracks, now abandoned. Finally, I want to clear the field from some concerns already raised during the debate in the bicameral Commission on regional issues concerning a possible domino effect, the first mentioned by Senator Sonego: a domino effect of requests for passages from one region to another, investing not so much the measure under consideration as Article 132 of the Constitution. I note, therefore, that the constitutional article provides many and specific conditions for the posting-aggregation of a local authority to make it unlikely that its application will become generalized. Finally, on all these premises and considerations I think there are no reasons for the passage of the Municipality of Sappada, the community of Sappada, from Veneto to Friuli-Venezia Giulia, to the Friulian community and really great satisfaction for the positive - hopefully - outcome of the measure. I believe that, above all, it must be respected by several parties called upon by the citizens, who have been very clear and determined, and for many years, in their intention to vote. Citizens whose expectations cannot be disappointed. In the past, precautionary and procedural measures have led to a postponement, in order to find the right internal consensus, although the Sappada measure has long been included in the proceedings of this House. It will find absolutely positive assessments and is no longer elusive with further referrals: the response of our Parliament will have to be there and I hope it will be in favour. My opinion, therefore, is absolutely in favour. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. The general debate is closed. I shall refer the following to another session of the debate on the draft law.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-09-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-880.ana.u63	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-09-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-880.ana.u64	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-09-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-880.ana.u65	Campanella (Art.1-MDP). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I shall talk about the events of Bagheria. On 7 and 8 April 2015, the mayor of Bagheria, activist of the 5 Star Movement, already close collaborator of Giancarlo Cancelleri, already deputy to the Sicilian Regional Assembly and today candidate for President, entrusts to Tech Servizi Srl the extraordinary management of the waste collection service for the Municipality of Bagheria. Only that it does so without competition and for six months, for an amount of 500,000 euros plus VAT per month: too long and too long. Part of the opposition in the City Council has fought hard against these measures, asking for the intervention of the competent regional councillors who, in fact, send a note on 15 April which highlights the dubious regularity of the proceedings. The municipal administration of Bagheria still proceeds without hesitation on the determined road, while the Sicilian Region, despite the formal reports of oppositions, does not activate effectively. In fact, the 5 Star Movement in the current Sicilian regional legislature has often been accused of collateralism with the Crocetta administration. The fact is that the Region has shown a deep torpor towards the modalities of management of the Municipality of Bagheria by the Movement 5 Stars, despite the repeated reports of the oppositions. On 24 September 2015, a question was submitted to my first signature, addressed to the Government to find out whether these facts are known and, if so, what is to be done. This question has been asked several times, so far unnecessarily. I myself, then, present an exhibit to the Carabinieri of Bagheria on November 2, 2015. Today is the news of a series of measures of the judiciary that have reached the mayor of Bagheria and some city councilors and officials. From these facts I draw two considerations, which I submit to you. The first is that the 5 Star Movement must reconsider its attitude in the concrete management of public affairs, if it wants to be credible as a power of government, even in the relationship with oppositions. The second is that all politics needs to resume to function properly: delays on the part of those who had to operate administrative controls (the Region) and on the part of the peripheral organs of the State and the delays of the Government, which has not yet responded, have left a huge responsibility of supplementing the judiciary. Political control must be much tighter than criminal control. The timely and timely political condemnation of certain administrative attitudes would have reduced the damage to citizens and perhaps also reduced the number of people involved in these sad events.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-09-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-880.ana.u66	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-09-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-880.ana.u67	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-09-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-880.ana.u68	WOMAN (M5S). Mr President, it has been a few days since the tragic death of Noemi Durini, the girl from Specchia who was brutally killed. Today we are, once again, faced with another tragic episode, which has reduced a young woman to death, really in desperate conditions. It happened this morning. She is a fifteen-year-old girl from Ischitella, in the province of Foggia, brutally wounded by a man who then committed suicide: wounded by a gunshot wound in the face. So let's talk about another episode that opens up a truly macabre scenario of violence and fear. It is clear that we are faced with a very important alarm, which must find the right tools to be finally appeased. We absolutely cannot continue to mourn victims and continual abuse. How many more deaths will it take to take note of this situation and this emergency, because it is now a real emergency? How many other times, how many more days, months, years do we have to wait for this government to finally intervene, doing good deeds, protecting the territory, helping the citizens? We are talking about massacres without arrest, which have taken on a very scary course day after day. Gender violence is the first cause of death among women. Where is the government while this massacre is being carried out? Why are territorial networks not strengthened and put in a position to work in synergy with others? Why is there no far-sighted planning of interventions and the allocation of adequate funds and resources? Questions that follow an embarrassing silence, because the Executive is absent. Let us not forget that last July the extraordinary action plan against sexual and gender violence expired and the fact that the institutions are stalling on this issue is, to say the least, scandalous. By now, even going out the door to go to school, shopping, simply taking a walk means exposing yourself to a real danger for your own safety. All this is truly unheard of for a society that defines itself as evolved. There is no more time, you cannot wait yet, you cannot linger on such a delicate subject. One thing is certain: in this situation every other victim will fall on the responsibility of the State and of those who do not intervene, that is you. [[Applause from Senator Puglia.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-09-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-880.ana.u69	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-09-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-880.ana.u70	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-09-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-880.ana.u71	PHASE (PD). Mr President, I would like to stress a very shocking fact that a doctor from the medical guard in Trecastagni, in the province of Catania, was the victim of an assault and then of a real violence by a 26-year-old boy who had come to the clinic. In this regard, I point out that since 2009 the "Dossier Violence - stories of ordinary madness" has been written by the national executive of the Italian Federation of General Medicine Doctors, which brings a complaint mainly concerning women who are in the positions of the medical guard, often targeted. In this regard, we recall an episode that took place at Tor Bella Monaca in 2010, when a doctor on duty barricaded her in the room because of a criminal who threatened her with death. I do not go into the details for reasons of time, but I would like to stress that the president of the Federation of Medical Orders, Roberta Cersevani, proposed yesterday to move medical guards inside the police stations or in the police stations to ensure safety at the doctors' workplaces, targeted because alone and at night. The same kind of need arises for other professions that are at risk of violence: those of women who work alone in police posts, such as security personnel, restaurant and hotel employees, taxi drivers, bus drivers and so on. This is a problem that must certainly be addressed and deepened, as President Boldrini has asked these days, which has urged political forces to put in place a measure in which the protections for women and the interdictive measures for violent men are increased. It is a duty and a responsibility to which the political class cannot and must not escape.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-09-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-880.ana.u72	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-09-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-880.ana.u73	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-09-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-880.ana.u74	MANDELLI (FI-PdL XVII). Mr President, I rise to ask the answer to my question 3-03973 of 13 September. In this question I ask an urgent answer from the Ministry, because on 13 June 2017 the Ministry of Education issued the standard requirements and indicators of training and care activities of the Specialty Schools of the health area, in particular established by the National Observatory of Medical Specialization. These specific standards seem absolutely inconsistent with the present clinical realities and this has meant that many schools have had to insert excessively optimistic or enthusiastic data in order to be within these standards and therefore have the possibility to form a number of eligible students, an important number for their activity. We will therefore have schools of specialties recognized for their excellent training offer that are found to have met the requirements required by the Ministry, but that will not have a number of students as well as in the other years had happened. I therefore urge the answer because, having to start the academic year these days, we must understand if there is really no chance for the Government to remedy these truly unrealistic standards.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-09-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-880.ana.u75	The motions, questions and questions received by the Presidency will be published in Annex B to today's report.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-09-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-880.ana.u76	The Senate will meet again tomorrow, Thursday 21 September, in two public sessions, the first at 9.30 a.m. and the second at 16 a.m., with the following agenda: (See agenda) The sitting was closed at 7.44 p.m.
