ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-745.ana.u1	The sitting was opened at 16 p.m. The Minutes shall be read. Mr Volpoli, Secretary, read the Minutes of the afternoon sitting of the previous day. PRESIDENT. - The debate is Since there were no comments, the Minutes were approved.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-745.ana.u2	The list of senators on leave and absent on assignment received from the Senate, as well as further communications to the Assembly, will be published in Annex B to today's Minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-745.ana.u3	The next item is questions in immediate response (so-called question time), pursuant to Rule 151- bis of the Rules of Procedure, on air pollution issues and waste cycle management, with particular reference to reclamation of sites of national interest, to which the Minister for the Environment and Protection of the Territory and the Sea, Dr Galletti, will respond. It should be noted that RAI's live television is underway. Let us turn to questions on air pollution issues. Senators may ask their questions to the Minister for two minutes each.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-745.ana.u4	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-745.ana.u5	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-745.ana.u6	PUPPATE (PD). Mr President, first of all I would like to thank the Minister for his presence. The question I would like to ask concerns the lack of air quality plan that we are still waiting for, which includes specific measures and funding that respond to two substantial demands. The first request is to monitor the amount of deaths caused by poor air conditions in Italy, reducing somewhat the amount and the number, since, according to the World Health Organization, we have 21,000 deaths, more than twice as much as France, about three times as much as Spain and much more than the United Kingdom; not to mention Sweden, which has only - and only - 40 cases. The second request is to be able to overcome the extreme diversity of approach envisaged on the issue of emissions in the various Italian regions. There is, of course, a good desire on the part of some of them to proceed; some of them have consoled to this effect and the Ministry has also intervened. We're going through a lot of things. I want to recall for everyone, to make system, the theme of ecobonus, the decree of biomass and biofuels, of which we are debating; the theme of mobility that begins to address the objective of the growth of public mobility; the environmental protection system, which was born precisely these days, on 16 January, and the LEPTA, which have been made as essential levels of assistance on the environment sector. The question, Minister, is therefore precisely this: I ask for the timing to go to define the plan and to allow us to carry out initiatives that are in a position to enforce the international agreements, in the end that of Kigali, and to allow us to reduce the mortality in the country.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-745.ana.u7	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-745.ana.u8	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-745.ana.u9	SMALL (FI-PdL XVII). Mr President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, according to the 2016 World Health Organisation report on air quality, Italy is one of the most polluted areas of the whole European continent. The data provided highlight certain specific areas that do not respect the limits of the World Health Organization and, among them, in Europe stands out the Po Valley and in any case Italy in general. This situation, which is the result of little knowledge and little awareness of the problem and its real consequences, contributes mainly to emissions linked to the extensive use of means of transport and heating of buildings. In view of the enormous amount of social costs involved in this sector, I would ask you: what actions does your Dicastery intend to propose to the Ministry of Economic Development when updating the national energy strategy to allow the containment of emissions related to mobility - for example, towards electric mobility - and to the heating of buildings - for example, through the use of smart fuel control technologies - within a safe, stable and clear reference framework for citizens and businesses; what forms of support for electric mobility to be put in place to replace the car fleet, given that there is currently a problem of convenience for the purchase of ecological means, especially electrical ones; what concrete incentives for the use of extra-urban and urban transport systems, trains, buses and buses, are intended to put in place and with what application methods; finally, what is the state of the art in the field of energy efficiency of buildings and installations and what is the reduction of emissions achieved over the last five years.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-745.ana.u10	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-745.ana.u11	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-745.ana.u12	LUCIDES (M5S). Minister, "Yes, it is true, we polluted": these are the words circulated yesterday and spoken by Claudio Riva referring to the emissions into the atmosphere of the ILVA group in Taranto. These words tell us about cities attacked by 19th century industrial policies, far from light years from issues such as environmental sustainability and ecological footprint. Too often we forget the precautionary principle. As - for example - in Terni, a city in which ARPA Umbria, in the context of the monitoring of air quality and its impact on the agri-food chain, also at the suggestion of the 5 Star Movement, has launched an experimental campaign to verify the presence of hexavalent chromium in the air. The data obtained show a correlation between steel plants and quantities of hexavalent chromium present; all surrounded by an increase in cancer diseases and the presence of other sources, such as three incinerators, landfills and many other industrial activities. ARPA denounces the scarcity of data in literature to be able to initiate and crystallize the famous causality link, even if they confirm an increase of cancer pathologies due to exposure to hexavalent chromium and above all - as we say for some time now - that one must get out of the logic of the thresholds and limits that determine the legal deaths of so many citizens. For these reasons, I would ask you whether you intend to launch a national campaign for bio-monitoring of exposed sites at risk for chromium in urban air, including within the framework of the European Human Biomonitoring for Europe programme, in order to propose a legal limit for this pollutant.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-745.ana.u13	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-745.ana.u14	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-745.ana.u15	MARINELLO (AP (Ncd-CpI)). Minister, I take advantage of your presence in order to know the state of the art regarding infringement procedures, with particular reference to the new referral to the Court of Justice for the quantification of sanctions and the choice of the single commissioner for purification contained in the cohesion decree at the end of the year. I also take the opportunity to ask what are the real problems that have caused this situation precisely in the governance of the water resource.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-745.ana.u16	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-745.ana.u17	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-745.ana.u18	Orellana (Aut (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT)-PSI-MAIE). Dear Minister, given that the PM10 is the most critical parameter in terms of exceeding the limits, I would like to know what your opinion is about the possibility of considering the composition of particulate matter in the air quality assessment. This is due to the fact that the presence in particulate matter of different harmful substances, heavy metals or dioxin, can have a different impact on health. We therefore feel that it is important to be aware of this, not least in order to find more effectively the sources of pollution.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-745.ana.u19	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-745.ana.u20	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-745.ana.u21	VOLPI (LN-Aut). Minister, we want to make two demands today, starting from the fact that the Padana Valley is undoubtedly one of the most critical areas compared to air pollution: from fine dust to all other elements. We therefore propose a reflection on two subjects. Given that this criticality has also been noted by the European authorities, we ask you to consider the possibility of identifying, even with Europe, an address of disadvantaged area for the Po Valley, where, among other things, you also live - if I am not mistaken - and therefore you know very well that territory, the continuous conurbation of the big cities, industrial history and meteorology. We then call for institutional cooperation, in the sense of putting in place an extraordinary plan, to be done together with the local authorities and the regions, which includes an articulated, but also organic, series of interventions, starting from the financial ones, but with real planning to reduce pollution.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-745.ana.u22	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-745.ana.u23	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-745.ana.u24	Tarquinio (CoR). Minister, you have a huge task after decades of nothing. That is the reality. It's no use to keep messing with us. The problem is dramatic in every respect: local public transport is what we know and nothing is done to intervene. There is no provision for intervention in favour of the municipalities, for their municipalized companies and for everything else; for electric transport, if anything, but at least for LPG or methane, and this absolutely does not exist. We have been talking about this for decades, but nothing happens. We are talking about air pollution and so on. One wonders why France and Switzerland and other countries are better than us and does not consider that we also pay for choices made decades ago. Whatever anyone says, when we said no to nuclear, we also said yes to air pollution, like it or not. They are bitter realities, difficult but we must talk about it and not because I am in favour of nuclear power, but because in the meantime we want everything clean, but wind and photovoltaics spoil. But then what do we want? Meanwhile, Cerano and ILVA, in Puglia, continue undisturbed with coal and nothing is done about it. We talk and nothing is done. Well, either you have the courage to take the bull by the horns or you make fun of us. We will continue to say that in Italy, for pollution by fine dusts, not 60,000 but 100,000 will die, 120,000 people. That's the real thing. If anyone wants to move on to history as Environment Minister or tackles these problems, with all the monstrous issues and interests behind it, lobbying and pressure, or we don't get out of it. It's reality. We all make fun of each other. We expect little warm cloths but to give what kind of answer? None, because above all, behind this kind of incentives that we could use and also behind the hydrogeological failure - we talk a lot about it and nothing happens - there could also be the recovery of the country in economic terms and GDP. But this is not the case. My question, then, is: what do we really want to do? The antismog plans aren't even seen, this is the real data. Either we face reality for what it is or we won't get out of it. That is why I ask you for at least a verbal, moral and political commitment. PRESIDENT. - The debate is Mr Galletti, Minister for the Environment and Protection of the Land and the Sea, has the floor.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-745.ana.u25	Mr President, first of all, allow me to take advantage of this opportunity to express the closeness of the Government and mine to the populations affected by atmospheric events in the last few days in central Italy and to thank all the Forces of Order that are currently operating in that territory together with the men of Civil Protection and the many volunteers who have made themselves available at this difficult time for our country. I believe that the questions you have asked have touched on issues of fundamental importance to our territory and I thank you for that, because you give me the opportunity to enter into the specific issues that every day, as Minister, I am called to address. As far as air quality is concerned, I have always paid particular attention to this problem. Community air quality legislation requires Member States to ensure, within specific dates, compliance with certain air quality limit values for a number of pollutants through the planning of measures and recovery measures. In our country, the failure to comply with the limits imposed by the Community rules on PM10 and nitrogen dioxide concerns large areas of the national territory, located in most Italian regions. First of all, I would like to point out that the European Environment Agency has recently published a new report highlighting the links between air pollution and the health of European citizens. According to the study, most city dwellers continue to be exposed to levels of air pollutants that the World Health Organisation does not believe to be safe. However, if we look at the figures for Italy, it is clear that pollution levels have fallen significantly in recent years. All the measures we have put in place have been sufficient to reduce the level of pollution, but not, in many Italian regions, to achieve levels of safety for citizens' health. This is proof that the maneuvers are working, but that the ones we have put on the field are not yet enough. We must continue along the lines we have taken, particularly in recent years, because it is precisely in recent years that we have had a significant reduction in pollution. First of all, it should be pointed out that the regions have the primary competence to assess and manage air quality, and therefore also to draw up recovery plans and action measures. There is no national obligation on the part of the State on air quality. There is no obligation and no competence to do so. So, even voluntarily, if you wanted to do it, you couldn't do it, because it would be a mere address document. And now I will explain what we do to exercise this direction, considering that our action could not be direct and decisive compared to the surpassing of the fine dusts found in the national territory. Our action has been aimed at ensuring constant and fundamental support for local administrations. In this sense, a permanent working table was established at the Ministry, in which the State and the Regions exchange information and tools to improve the level of knowledge and ability to manage air pollution phenomena. With specific reference to the Padano basin, which - as Senator Volpi said - is the area we are most concerned about at the moment, because it is the one with the highest pollution rates, it is pointed out that national and Community legislation on air quality does not provide for any classification of the zones according to the characteristics of dispersion of pollutants. All areas, that is, are considered equal by Community legislation, despite us, Senator Volpi, we have repeatedly asked the European Union to recognise the specificity of the Padano basin, because it has geographical conditions that make it more vulnerable to fine dust than other areas and - not only - because it is also affected by a more powerful human industrial activity than others. So, it's definitely, from this point of view too, a more risky area. However, recognizing the great criticalities present in the area, the Ministry has given rise to initiatives such as the Padano basin agreement of 2013. This agreement, together with the anti-smog protocol signed at the end of December 2015, together with all Italian municipalities and all Italian regions, and the future control programme provided for by the NEC Directive on national emission ceilings, constitutes a concrete national contribution to the reduction of pollution in the territories of the Padano basin. I would like to remind you here that with the regions of the Padano basin there is an intense confrontation that has lasted for months now. The next meeting, yet another, will be in Emilia-Romagna with all the Presidents interested in the Padano basin, to continue the deepening of the results of the technical tables that closed their work a few weeks ago. We will meet periodically, even symbolically, in all the regions that are part of the Padano basin, precisely to give greater impact to the action we are carrying out. In this context, the ministries are expected to undertake actions in the sectors identified as most responsible for polluting emissions, while the regions will have to adopt measures through a change in their air quality plans. In addition, in the context of the activities provided for by the agreement, the Ministry of the Environment has also prepared a decree on the certification of heat generators for domestic use, the so-called mini heaters, aimed at the diffusion of increasingly efficient and clean technologies. In addition, a second decree on the identification of new emission limit values to be applied to biomass plants of an industrial nature has been drawn up in order to limit their impact on the environment. Further agreements may be promoted for other Italian regions. As far as the presence of hexavalent chromium in the air is concerned, it should be noted that this pollutant is not one of the substances which Community air quality standards require to verify and limit for the protection of the environment and public health. Moreover, the knowledge of these pollutants is so limited at international level that it would be extremely complex to imagine the setting of a specific limit value on the atmospheric concentrations of chromium valid only for Italy and, with the scientific knowledge we have, even unrealistic. However, since the subject exists and is at the attention of science at global level, it is believed that this inclusion can be carried out following the debate we are holding in Europe and that Italy is active in the technical groups and, above all, in the Council. When the European Commission considers, on the basis of international data, Italy will propose its introduction into the Directive. This promised, it is noted in any case that at national level specific limits have been set to the emissions of chromium of industrial plants also for instance not covered by Community norms - this is one of the cases of goldplating of our legislation - and that in the context of an activity of updating of the fifth part of legislative decree 3 April 2006, n. 152, in place at my Ministry, these limits can be revised and updated in the light of the new scientific knowledge that we have. Finally, always with reference to initiatives to protect the quality of the air, it is noted - as I recalled before - that on 30 December 2015 a protocol of understanding has been signed that previews the destination of approximately 12 million euros, in favor of the Ministry of the environment and the protection of the territory and the sea, the Conference of the Regions and the Autonomous Provinces and the National Association of the Italian Municipalities, in order to define and implement homogeneous measures on a basin scale in order to improve the protection of the quality of the air and the reduction of emissions of climatizing gases with priority interventions in the metropolitan cities. The protocol aims to finance measures to encourage local public transport and alternative mobility to private transport. The decree of address on the destination and the use of the resources has already been prepared and will be published in the next few days. In addition, the Protocol provides for a commitment to specify the activities to be financed through existing incentive instruments for a total amount of approximately EUR 350 million (renewing of local public transport means is also foreseen). In addition to these 350 million, there are also those of the Ministry of Infrastructure and Transport. In this context, EUR 6 million has already been activated for the financing of sustainable mobility measures, which are in addition to EUR 350 million and EUR 12 million. We have already signed protocols with the metropolitan cities of Bologna, Rome, Milan and Turin. To these we add the 35 million euros destined by the environmental connection to the National Experimental Programme of Sustainable Mobility Home-School and Home-Work, in order to finance projects prepared by one or more local authorities related to a territorial area with population of more than 100,000 inhabitants, aimed at encouraging initiatives of urban mobility alternatives to private car. To all these interventions we must add those that we have prepared in a structural way also in the budget law, namely the extension of the ecobonus, the tax discount of 65% and the enlargement of the spectrum of intervention. Finally, as regards the actions to be taken, it is recalled that in December 2013 the European Commission published the new Thematic Strategy on Air Quality, which consists of a general guidance document and the two directives to be adopted with a view to reducing pollutant emissions. I shall end with this and reply later on on the subject of infringements and other places. PRESIDENT. - The debate is They now have the power to answer the questions, for one minute each.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-745.ana.u26	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-745.ana.u27	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-745.ana.u28	PUPPATE (PD). Minister, I believe that the work you are doing in this parliamentary term is very good. But it is also true that the competence in question is not only the Ministry of the Environment and the protection of the territory and the sea. As you said earlier, the issues also concern transport - and, therefore, the Ministry of Infrastructure and Transport - agriculture and the competences of other ministries. It is true, however, that the issue of emissions into the atmosphere is important for the entire Italian community from a health point of view and I know that the Ministry that you chair is particularly concerned about it. Precisely for the reasons he has just expressed, namely the need to maintain the international commitments that we have also made in relation to the reduction of emissions, in order to avoid Community infringements - in some cases we have risked them in this area - also thanks to the changes already made (related to the LEPTA and the national network of environmental protection), I think that the Ministry has the need to put in place an air quality plan that is national reference and that can see a realization in the individual regions.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-745.ana.u29	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-745.ana.u30	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-745.ana.u31	SMALL (FI-PdL XVII). Mr President, first of all, I would like to associate myself with the Minister's thought of our fellow citizens in Central Italy, who are certainly experiencing a difficult situation at the moment. With regard to the answer given, it is understandable that, within the synthesis of an answer such as the one the Minister gave us, only a few issues have been addressed. I would like to reiterate what I said in the question, namely the lack of coordination between the energy and environmental policies of our country. If emissions, particularly in the field of mobility, can be brought back not only to the public, but also to the private sector, and to emissions from heating systems, it is essential that we promote actions aimed at the future, in order to allow a wide-ranging modernisation of our environment linked to mobility and heating. Therefore, I have to say that your answer is partially unsatisfactory, given the enormity of the social costs that the issue of air pollution underlies, both for health and for the different consequences it has on the lives of our fellow citizens.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-745.ana.u32	I greet a delegation of mayors and local administrators of Municipalities of the Alburni Mountains and the Cilento Park, in the province of Salerno, who are following our question time. Welcome to the Senate. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-745.ana.u33	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-745.ana.u34	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-745.ana.u35	LUCIDES (M5S). Minister, I believe that both the Government and Parliament have a function that goes beyond mere administration of laws. We also have the obligation, responsibility and mission to propose new scenarios to our citizens, scenarios that are obviously, for our Commissions, those of offering a more sustainable future. I am therefore partially satisfied with your reply, Minister. Although I have expressed some elements on the basis of which I reserve the right to produce new actions, it is noted that there is no desire on the part of the Ministry to be a precursor to the new scenarios. The very fact that you have said that we are faced with new studies and scientific fields, where there is a great shortage of data, puts us in front of a very competitive scenario. I therefore believe that, also for the health of our citizens, it is very important to continue with this action and to deal with it much more decisively.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-745.ana.u36	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-745.ana.u37	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-745.ana.u38	MARINELLO (AP (Ncd-CpI)). I thank the Minister for his presence and his answers. I understand that the short time allowed to him has not given him the opportunity to answer all the questions asked in detail and we are therefore still waiting for some clarification. Your answers, Minister, reveal all the action you have taken over these years and all we can do is express a positive opinion on what you have done, what you are doing and what you will certainly continue to do in such a sensitive area. I believe, Minister, that you will not lack the help of Parliament on these issues.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-745.ana.u39	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-745.ana.u40	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-745.ana.u41	Orellana (Aut (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT)-PSI-MAIE). Mr President, I agree with Mr Marinello's words in thanking the Minister for his clarity on air quality and air pollution, which - as the Minister himself said - is a regional matter. With regard to my specific question about particulate composition, particularly PM10, I hope that in the permanent coordination table of the State-Regions there will be the possibility of assessing what - in my opinion - is an important characteristic for understanding the impacts directly on health. Knowing whether dioxins of particulate matter or certain metals (such as selenium) prevail in the composition would give an indication not only of the possible health effects, but also of the main source of pollution, on which perhaps the relevant ministries could act. That is my wish.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-745.ana.u42	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-745.ana.u43	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-745.ana.u44	VOLPI (LN-Aut). Mr Galletti, thank you for your reply. I believe that the satisfaction will be shared between Parliament, territorial representatives and yourself, as a government, when we can achieve even more significant results. You've given figures. We can say this together, even if it is Parliament's turn to do so: there are always too few ministers and it affects the consultation of too many ministries with regard to territorial issues relating to air pollution. I call on you to continue the work you are also doing through the help of the Regions, so that Europe, instead of just doing the usual tables, will allow some more possibilities in terms of financial resources for local authorities and for you as a Ministry.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-745.ana.u45	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-745.ana.u46	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-745.ana.u47	Tarquinio (CoR). Minister, I am satisfied with the millions of euros allocated to urban transport, although they are insufficient. I hope, however, that the regions and municipalities will be given the opportunity to use them properly, and that they will also be given the means to buy which they pollute to a lesser extent. Often the exact opposite happens: you buy what you shouldn't. That's the real thing. For the rest, the effort is enormous with Commissions, surveys of various types and species. It is typical of Italy to create agencies and subagencies without ever reaching anything and losing decades. But he didn't give me an answer: what are you going to do about the alternative energies that have been cut off in this country? We pollute for energy production and have cut off alternative energies in general. There's no answer. State companies can't even determine what's going on in the country. That's the real thing. There is no answer and this is of serious interest. Are clean alternative energies used to prevent pollution? Are they useful? I think so. As far as I know, we will soon be in EU infringement of the renewables parameters, but we have stopped them. It started with the Letta Government and continues, but no one answers. I would like an answer, if not today, another time, to discuss issues that significantly reduce pollution. We then intervene on coal-fired companies that pollute without limits.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-745.ana.u48	We now come to questions on waste cycle management, with particular reference to reclamation of sites of national interest, which will be answered by the Minister for the Environment and the Protection of the Territory and the Sea, Dr Galletti. Senators may ask their questions to the Minister for two minutes each.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-745.ana.u49	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-745.ana.u50	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-745.ana.u51	VACCARI (PD). Mr. Minister, my question will be on the issue of subsidies and it is general, because it concerns the whole country. In Italy, the rules in force on subsidies are the subject of continuous partial revisions and disconnected from each other and this fragmentation creates difficulties in the application of the rule by operators and uneven application at national level. There are important sites of national interest such as Bagnoli - today visited by the Commission of Inquiry on waste - Bussi sul Tirino, Cogoleto, where both the Ministry of the Environment and government commissioners operate, generating overlaps of competences that result in overall inefficiencies. Furthermore, there are currently no reliable parameters to indicate, on the basis of data from surveys carried out in contaminated areas, the use of land. The many programme agreements still in place, which over the years have seen an attempt to involve the private system in the process of securing and reclamation of industrial sites, have not always achieved the objectives set. There are contaminated sites which, due to the difficulty in identifying those responsible for pollution or for the presence of ongoing litigation, constitute a health hazard and the mayor does not always have the resources and the tools to do so. These difficulties are also linked, in many cases, to the frequent cases of surety presented by operators for post-mortem activities following the closure of the landfill, which do not meet the minimum reliability requirements and which sometimes cease after a few months after the issuance of the same surety. How does your Ministry intend to provide for regulatory interventions aimed at a solution to this problem - for example - by binding the resources collected for this purpose with the charging in a dedicated fund that remains in public availability until the conclusion of the contract?
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-745.ana.u52	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-745.ana.u53	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-745.ana.u54	SMALL (FI-PdL XVII). Minister, the reclamation of sites of national interest requires an extraordinary commitment, since they represent more than 2% of the Italian territory: this is an important area, where the potential risks to the environment multiply because of the hazardous waste collected in them; risks that increase in the many sites that have a perimeter bordering the sea. The Commission's bicameral inquiry into the illicit activities related to the waste cycle and environmental offences and related to the reclamation of sites has been much more concerned than Parliament's ordinary work. Indeed, the huge turnover in the environmental rehabilitation of sites, estimated at over EUR 30 billion, has aroused the interest of organised crime. The state of complicated bureaucratic procedures sees most sites still far from the end of the process of reclamation of contaminated areas. In particular, it is late compared to all the stages of the procedures the reclamation of the site of Venice Porto Marghera, equal to 1,621 hectares of the new perimeter of the areas to be reclaimed, which are little less than the initial total area of the site. I ask you, Minister, what is the real state of the procedures of reclamation of the areas of the site of Venice Porto Marghera, the costs and the cause of delays; what strategy has adopted the Government in order to combat in concrete way the many - I would say too many - criminal interests that revolve around the management of the waste and the Bonifiche of the sites and what actions it intends to pursue the Government in order to make the cycle of waste an economic opportunity for our country through reuse, recycling and recovery. Finally, I would like to ask what action is being taken more generally to achieve an effective circular economy, which is also economically and financially sustainable, especially in the necessary transitional phase.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-745.ana.u55	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-745.ana.u56	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-745.ana.u57	CRIMI (M5S). We took the waste to Lombardy until 1987. Montichiari I remember it well and so Ospitaletto, Castegnato, Rovato; until Mantua we arrived, everywhere. All the quarries there are full. You are worse off than we are, you are more ruined than we are: these, Minister, are the statements of the repentant of Camorra Nunzio Perrella and describe in a heartbreaking way what is our land of poisons, that is Brescia and its province. In these lands 57 million cubic metres of waste were scattered and spilled, six times as estimated in the land of fires in Campania (10 million). Minister, you know the Empire State Building, the symbol building in New York with its 102 floors and 400 meters high? Well, buried garbage in Brescia could fill 60 of those skyscrapers. In this open-air landfill there are also 10 million cubic metres of land impregnated with polychlorinated carcinogens (PCBs) after a century of activity of the chemical company Caffaro, sister of that Montedison of Bussi that in Abruzzo managed to contaminate 500,000 tons of soil by grounding toxic waste bins. Everywhere, between city and province, there are no steel mills, cement factories, industries and emissive poles, not least an incinerator. The annual limit of PM10 in Brescia is exceeded in the first two months of the year. How can you hope for the rain to breathe clean air? That is our request. I also speak for the thousands of citizens who, with the hashtag "bastaveleni" as a slogan, have come to the streets to ask whether they intend to take a legislative initiative aimed at establishing a moratorium to suspend funding, achievements, environmental impact assessments (EIA) and integrated environmental authorisations (IAA), including with already started iter, of new activities, plants and works, in particular landfills, in the province of Brescia, already burdened by a high environmental pressure index. I would also ask you whether you do not consider it appropriate to modify and extend the perimeter of the site of national interest Brescia Caffaro, using for any analysis national structures without the support of the ATS of Brescia, now famous for the continuous negation of the gravity of the case Caffaro, from which, in our opinion, for their irresponsible attitude arise some delays. We also ask what is the current situation and the iter planned for the reclamation of this site of national interest Brescia Caffaro, how many are the sums really allocated available, for how many is foreseen an imminent appropriation and finally if Commissioner Moreni has produced the reports due him and who is his substitute, since he would be resigned from 1 December 2016.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-745.ana.u58	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-745.ana.u59	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-745.ana.u60	MARINELLO (AP (Ncd-CpI)). Minister, in the field of clean-up, I would like first of all to focus on procedural delays and administrative complexity, probably also due to the multiplicity of institutional actors involved in decision-making. I certainly recognise a pragmatic approach, also considering the resources that you have managed to have from CIPE, with the development and cohesion funds in the new programming, which demonstrate the attention of the Government in this area. Above all, I would like to know his intention regarding possible regulatory and procedural changes that can simplify the plethora of subjects and accelerate, therefore, the phase of the actual Bonifiche, overcoming the phase of study, characterization and analysis. I take this opportunity to have information on the state of the art in the matter of some sites of national interest, in particular Porto Marghera, Brescia Caffaro, Torviscosa, Bagnoli (with clarifications on the role of the commissioner and the Municipality of Naples), Napoli orientale, Brindisi and Crotone.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-745.ana.u61	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-745.ana.u62	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-745.ana.u63	ROMANO (Aut (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT)-PSI-MAIE). Minister, my question relates to the land of fires, in particular the illegal spilling of waste and the burnings, which have been reduced in recent times but have not completely disappeared. Surveys of various prosecutors revealed various wastes, including hospital materials, industrial waste and various waste. By law 6 February 2014, No. 6 was converted, with amendments, the decree-law on environmental emergencies, of which Article 1 regulates in a timely manner the conduct of technical surveys for land mapping. In the context of the conversion of the aforementioned decree-law on environmental emergencies, an agenda was accepted by the Government, of which I am the first signatory, which provides for the identification of the competent bodies to carry out the following special investigations: geochemical characterization, with certain parameters, of the soils in areas at potential risk and of the water of irrigation; quality, quantity and persistence of the contaminants with determination of the level of bioavailability of the toxic elements with respect to the vegetal matrix; rates of absorption by the cultures of the different contaminants; definition of the chain trophic of pollutants up to man in the matrix such as hair, urine, blood, through innovative methodologies such as the use of isotope analyses. Therefore, Minister, I would like to ask you for the state of implementation of the measures provided for in Decree-Law No 136 of 10 December 2013 which initiatives have been taken in accordance with the aforementioned approved agenda and what progress has been made on them.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-745.ana.u64	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-745.ana.u65	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-745.ana.u66	VOLPI (LN-Aut). Minister, I think today is an opportunity to take stock of the criticalities of sites of national interest. Many of these have been mentioned by my fellow Members (and I understand that a colleague has already pointed out and urged the need to identify a fund that is dedicated to subsidies), but there are always new ones. I would ask you for a specific check, for example on the need for recognition, as a site of national interest in the so-called valley of fires in Umbria, where, moreover, still today, situations of contiguity with the underworld that are absolutely dangerous are emerging. Local authorities need certainties. It would be necessary to take action in many cases where, although the situation is not so relevant, known or public, there would be a need to intervene but there would also be a need to draw up a plan that would allow everyone to have certainty about the times and economic capacities. We can no longer transgress these terms. Let me conclude, Minister, with a consideration which I hope you share. Bonifices must also represent an opportunity: it means having the possibility of re-use of the territory, dedicating spaces to agriculture and being able to use less new spaces for construction and urbanization. We use the funds, set up this new fund together and establish that this must become a great opportunity for the country both for the large urban areas and for the less well-known ones. We give back to the territory, to the people and to the people what we owe them.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-745.ana.u67	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-745.ana.u68	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-745.ana.u69	Tarquinio (CoR). Minister, the regulation on the clean-up of contaminated sites of national interest has undergone various changes and changes during this parliamentary term. In the examination it was found that the real criticality is the disposal of waste and also asbestos. The problem is serious and my question is aimed at knowing how many sites - 40 of which are indicated - this reclamation has been carried out, with what results and how it has happened. What is also the Government's intention in order to intervene seriously with respect to the serious problems (totally related to that of pollution in general and also of the waste collection sites) of dredging of the ports and the famous asbestos, of which we fill our mouths all but on which absolutely nothing has been done, without 10% of what had to be done, with serious responsibilities that are ours, but also of the Regions and, in some cases, of the same Provinces. What are we going to do about this? Asbestos is still found everywhere, in buildings, in roads, in aqueducts. What happens when one breaks a course and is replaced? Where do these asbestos - filled pipes go? We talk about it, but everything stays the same. We have spoken, we have legislated and nothing happens and, in the meantime, we find ourselves in new emergencies without trying to give at least that minimum of answers. I'm not charging you with blame, Minister, because this is an ancient story, but it's time we're not holding up anymore. I would therefore ask you to answer my questions and to know what your commitments are in this regard, as you have done on the first subject we have dealt with. PRESIDENT. - The debate is Mr Galletti, Minister for the Environment and Protection of the Land and the Sea, has the floor.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-745.ana.u70	Mr President, I have to make a few choices because there are so many questions and I thank the interrogating senators for that. Time doesn't allow me to answer everyone completely. It has already happened with the answers of before; I apologise to Senator Piccoli and Senator Tarquinio because I had a written document on the national energy strategy, which responded to their right and very current observations, but I did not have time to go into the matter. I therefore propose this to you. As far as the SEN is concerned, I have already given you a written reply during these questions. I am unable to enter the issue of infringement proceedings on time - I am addressing Senator Marinello - but I am prepared to give a written note on this point, which has just ended this sitting (we have rightly discussed this issue in the Commission several times). I am also unable to enter into all individual sites of national interest: I can only make a general speech on sites of national interest, even if I have here a ready card, which I can deliver to you, about the state of progress of each national site. With regard to waste cycle management, the data on waste management presented last December by ISPRA and related to 2015, offer a photograph of Italy where the percentage of separate collection increases by 2.3 points compared to 2014, reaching 47.5%; since, in absolute value, it means that the differentiated collection exceeds 14 million tons, with an increase of 619,000 tons compared to 2014 (equal to more +4.6 percent). This is comforting, in the sense that we are moving forward decisively on an increase in separate collection with two unknowns. Firstly, we are still far from the 65% that the European Union is asking of us and to which we must get. The second factor that worries me is that this figure is leopard-stained. That is, we have regions, areas, municipalities that are already well above 65% today; we reach up to 8% and we have municipalities that reach 3%. This is an intolerable condition; it means that the rules are there, the municipalities can apply them, there are municipalities that are definitely going towards separate collection and municipalities that do not want to go there. We also have Regions - without making names to avoid controversy - which in 2015 had a lower percentage of separate collection than in 2014. This data isn't good. We must therefore be able to make it clear to all local administrators that it is important to move forward towards the objective of separate collection, not least because the fact that I am most concerned is not just the fact that we are still away from 65% - because there is an action that I think will lead us to that figure - but 40% of the waste that we still send to landfill. This, also from an environmental point of view, is very worrying. The real challenge, as I said before, is therefore to reach 65 percent of separate collection. We must also take important action on prevention. In this respect, there is a need for strong coordination between the central and regional levels. The integration of the national programme into regional plans is the necessary and indispensable condition for the measures envisaged at national level to deploy their effects and lead to the achievement of the planned reduction targets. In recent years, the Ministry has given rise to an activity to deepen the implementation at regional level of the legislation governing the integrated management of the waste cycle. In particular, with the Regions Calabria, Campania, Puglia, Liguria, Sicily, Veneto, Marche and Abruzzo a collaborative path has begun to overcome the various territorial criticalities. If on the one hand, therefore, it is required of the Regions and the Municipalities to create conditions for an efficient network of waste collection, so that this can really become functional to the country system and create new economic opportunities - as many of you have emphasized - it is necessary that there is an adequate infrastructural endowment such as to allow the valorization of the waste. With the decrees of the President of the Council of Ministers of 7 March 2016 and of 10 August 2016, the decrees of the President of the Council of Ministers were adopted, in implementation of the unblocking Italy, that have carried out a reconnaissance on the national needs of heating and composting, identifying the necessary equipments and the residual requirements to be met, in order to guarantee the correct closure of the cycle of waste. As you know, Article 35 of the Italian release provided that, on a proposal from my Ministry, the adoption of two decrees of the President of the Council of Ministers, concerning the detection of municipal waste incineration plants existing and authorised at national level, the determination of the plant capacity necessary to meet the residual incineration needs and the identification of municipal waste incineration plants and assimilated plants necessary to cover the relative residual needs. It is clear that we have done this job considering that the regions reach 65% separate collection as well as the other European objective, namely the preventive reduction of 10% of waste, together with the containment of waste at landfills (5 to 10% at most; we will see what the directive on the circular economy will provide). So, we did the simulation of what they have to do and what plant equipment the regions need to close the integrated waste cycle. I believe that this is the real point, behind which no one can hide anymore; that is, if we do not want to go into EU infringement and if we want to protect the environment, first of all, we must ensure that the integrated cycle of waste at regional level, of macro-areas, because if we do not do this we will always have, in some parts of the country, the waste emergency. Waste emergency means resources, environmental damage; it means exposing the country to European sanctions. I would now like to talk about composting, which is one of the activities that my Ministry has seen busy. On the subject of recycling the organic fraction is being published in the Official Journal Ministerial Decree laying down operational criteria and simplified authorization procedures for composting communities of organic waste, which introduces a type of small plant with the peculiarity of being managed collectively by domestic and non-domestic users as users referring to the equipment in order to obtain compost to be used among them. The aim is to reduce installations resulting from the management of the organic fraction of municipal waste, contributing to the achievement of recycling targets. Community composting, as a recycling activity, contributes to the achievement of the total recycling target of 50% of municipal waste and the target of reducing the delivery of biodegradable waste to landfill. I would like to pay particular attention, since many of you have asked me to do so, to the environmental emergency of the land of fires. Environmental issues related to the so-called land of fires are a priority for my Ministry. The initiatives to combat and prevent such a multifactorial phenomenon require a complex linking work within the framework of the activities promoted by the Land of Fires Pact and coordinated in the interinstitutional direction cabin with the prefectures, the Campania Region and the local authorities. Among the many measures taken there is, in particular, the strengthening of the controls of the Forces of the Order. In this regard I would like to give some data: 138 suspects; 1,809 sites of abandoned waste recorded and reported; 356 interventions carried out on places of fire in place, 756 checks carried out on tyre dealers, 477 on textile factories, 459 in agriculture and 1,660 in construction sites. The law enforcement authorities have also raised 4,020 violations of administrative violations and 1,329 complaints for environmental violations; we have carried out 108 arrests (of which 75 for the crime of fire of waste), 564 abductions of areas affected by abusive dumping and waste conversion and 340 seizures of vehicles used for transport. Finally, almost EUR 500 000 of administrative sanctions have been imposed. I think this was an intense work of sanction. On the burning side, the year 2016 has confirmed the trend in constant decrease of the arsonous fires of waste in the areas of the province of Naples and Caserta. With exclusive reference to the municipalities of the so-called land of fires, there are peaks of more than 70 percent less than last year. I believe that this control activity has led to a reduction of those episodes on the territory that destroy the environment. This result, I mean, has been possible thanks to wide-ranging control by the law enforcement, local police and labour inspectorates of INPS and INAIL targeted on companies that deal with the commodity categories related to abandonments and burns on the areas in which they are located. We note, moreover, a protocol that we have undersigned as Ministry of the environment with the Ecopneus that has allowed the adherent municipalities to remove for free more than 16,000 tons of rubber abandoned on roads and public areas. In addition to all this, institutional activity on the land of fires continued. The Interministerial Committee continued to work. The Committee has set up a special committee as a technical and operational body, which has initiated a thorough examination of the various and complex issues that have been put to the attention and guidelines have been made which have led to the adoption, in May last year, of a programme of interventions aimed at the protection of health, safety and reclamation of sites, as well as the economic revitalization of the territories of the so-called land of fires. The document was then examined and approved by the Interministerial Committee. It should also be noted that in implementation of the urgent provisions provided for in Decree-Law No 136 of 2013, the Ministry of the Environment has already prepared the scheme of regulations concerning the basic quality parameters of water intended for irrigation use on food crops and their methods of verification. As for the sites of national interest, the Ministry of the Environment and the competent administration for the preparation of the interventions of safety and reclamation of the areas included in the perimeter of the 40 sites of national interest, has allocated total resources to the regions for actions of reclamation of competence that today amount to approximately 2 billion euros. I would remind you that the Ministry of the Environment has also allocated over € 152 million for former SINs, already in the availability of beneficiaries. More generally, the resources referred to above have been regulated through the use of negotiated programming instruments, signed by my Ministry with the other administrations involved, or through acts of discipline at regional level. The Regions are currently providing the Ministry with a report on the state of play of the interventions financed and the amounts actually used. Recently my Ministry has prepared a plan of interventions for the protection of the territory and the waters, within which have been identified strategic and priority interventions of reclamation of the SIN for a total amount of approximately 750 million euros, already approved from the direction cabin, instituted by decree of the President of the Council of Ministers of 25 February 2016, and from CIPE, in the respective meetings of 1 December 2016. On the sites of national interest I like to remember the numbers, because perhaps they are more indicative of many other things than the result of this intense work that we have done in recent years, giving real priority to the sites of national interest, because they are great tool of recovery of urban areas. It is not only an environmental issue, but also an economic one. In the centers of the cities you see completely abandoned areas. And this fact interacts with the Paris Agreement, because there is an interest in the use and construction of new areas, so if we want to inhibit further land use, we must make available what we have already "waterproofed." Those are areas that, from an economic point of view, can be very important for the development of the city and are areas where there are significant environmental dangers. I realize that two billion euros are difficult to find, but we have done that part. It is also difficult to intervene. The fruit of this work is a fact that tells us a lot. To date, the areas released and returned to legitimate uses have increased from 1,482 hectares in 2013 to 5,755 hectares, equal to more than 500 football fields, i.e. the total area of the municipality of Udine. PRESIDENT. - The debate is They now have the power to answer the questions, for one minute each.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-745.ana.u71	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-745.ana.u72	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-745.ana.u73	VACCARI (PD). Minister, I would like to thank you for the answers you have given, and I would like to express my appreciation and support for the strategy that you have presented to us, in the same way as regards waste management, of which we had already had the confidence in your hearing in the Environment Commission here in the Senate, and, last but not least, on the important work you have undertaken with regard to the reclamation of sites of national interest. I would add, however, the need to have even the most precise data compared to the state of the art of the individual sites of national interest and with respect to the reporting that the Regions have sent you and, above all, also to the answer to the question I formulated regarding the need to simplify, from the administrative point of view, all the operations that, as you rightly recalled, are aimed at returning to the community lands first polluted. Hence, from this point of view too, it would be important to have answers from your Ministry regarding the actions and regulatory changes you intend to carry out.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-745.ana.u74	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-745.ana.u75	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-745.ana.u76	SMALL (FI-PdL XVII). Mr President, since I have not received any precise answers to the questions I have asked, all I have to do is to appreciate the Minister's statement of commitment, which concerns the possibility of further discussion and discussion in other places on the issues I have raised. Another statement should also be welcomed, namely the commitment to make the recovery of these sites of national interest available to urban areas, which can certainly improve the quality of the urban fabric. Minister, on the issue of the recovery of sites of national interest and the related issues I have raised, I believe that it is absolutely essential to be determined. Any delay and uncertainty are detrimental to the health, well-being and landscape, which, among other things, we remember being protected by our Constitution.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-745.ana.u77	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-745.ana.u78	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-745.ana.u79	CRIMI (M5S). Minister, thank you for the answers, which I hope to receive in writing, to the specific questions I have asked you. I just want to remind you that in the municipality of Vighizzolo, in the Montichiari area, the children were intoxicated by the fumes and had to go to the hospital. They risked and continue to risk their lives. Minister, if you have never been there, I invite you to take a tour - unofficial, but informally - in Montichiari, which is under Brescia. There is no need for technicians, support or sensors of any kind: the nostrils are enough to understand the everyday life of people living in those areas. For this reason, I renew the request I made in my first question. A moratorium is needed in those lands. We need to stop for a moment and reflect in particular on landfills, not to encourage a mechanism that does not help the closure of the integrated waste cycle that you mentioned earlier. It takes a moment to stop in that territory. Even today we have reached the point where permits are granted justifying them with the already high degradation of the territory for which an additional landfill does nothing. This is something that the citizens of those areas cannot bear.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-745.ana.u80	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-745.ana.u81	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-745.ana.u82	MARINELLO (AP (Ncd-CpI)). Mr Minister, the answers you have given give to the intense work and, above all, the effort you have made in recent years and which you are continuing to make. For this we are sincerely grateful. In any case, we are waiting for a full report, as you have promised, which will give us the opportunity, in the Commission, to carry out the necessary studies in a collaborative spirit. In fact, these issues are not divisive, but - indeed - they must make us work in unison to arrive at a real recovery of our territory that, as far as the urban fabric is concerned, moves with the aim of safeguarding, saving and economizing the soil. The soil, in fact, is a good that does not reproduce and that we have the interest to exploit and enjoy the best.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-745.ana.u83	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-745.ana.u84	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-745.ana.u85	ROMANO (Aut (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT)-PSI-MAIE). Minister, thank you for the timely reply you have given to me, which is showing an attention and sensitivity already recognized for several years to give a response to a nefarious past history. The commitment that you make, even with your offices, tends to avoid through preventive and repressive action, that this recent past becomes contemporary history. Nevertheless, I would ask you, Minister, to further implement your attention, through your offices and those responsible, so that we can give an even more complete response to the characterization of certain territories. The question of the causal link between environmental pollution and health needs to be answered with definitive clarity, lived with anxiety by certain territories. I am referring essentially to the incidence of tumours, foeto-neotal malformations and the fearsome epigenetics. For this reason, I ask you to insist, even more and more, in a connection, not only with the Campania Region, but also with the Ministry of Health, so that - together - you can make a journey and give an even more complete response to the citizens of Campania and the area of the land of fires.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-745.ana.u86	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-745.ana.u87	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-745.ana.u88	VOLPI (LN-Aut). Minister, do you know that I have not yet understood why you wanted to eliminate the State Forestry Corps? I'm still wondering. It was his instrument - the primary and specialized instrument on environmental issues - and you eliminated it. Having said that, I simply want to leave two messages: the first concerning the national fund and the second the so-called valley of fires, that is the area of Perugia, in Umbria, where dramatic situations and collusions with the underworld are emerging. Minister, if you were to engage in these matters, it would already be a step forward.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-745.ana.u89	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-745.ana.u90	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-745.ana.u91	Tarquinio (CoR). Minister, I am pleased that you have said that you will reply in writing on other occasions on the most important issues raised. At the same time, I call for an ever-increasing action, as my colleagues said, with reference to everything that happens in the land of fires and in other places. However, nobody says what happens in the municipalities: municipal landfills that are totally polluting and full of leachate, on which the NAS have reported and often - as it happens, Senator Crimes - the judiciary is not there and continues to pollute, or what the colleague said: they give additional permissions because both the territory is already polluted and, in the meantime, the citizens eat vegetables grown in an area of 50 hectares completely poisoned. This is what happens. It is a responsibility that is not yours, Minister, but we must try to intervene in some way, otherwise these citizens where they go, to whom and how? The municipalities are in this situation. That must be what you do, and I hope you do. God willing, we have five months or another year. If we are to stand in Parliament, let us stand up in concrete terms, so that the Italians will return to breathe and trust in something that will come. We must not continue to sail underwater, but we must have the courage to deal with the, even unpathetic, things that the citizens ask of us, hitting also our "friends"; we must do so. Otherwise we are all judged in the same way, all of us doing nothing. It's not like that. We can give serious answers on the environment, because health is at stake. Many examples have been given and I repeat them again, until obsession, without demagogy. It's not my territory, because I'm from Foggia, but Brindisi and Taranto are a problem. Why not intervene? Why are you still going to coal? Why? It's up to the national government. I hope that we will meet again, even with others, to deal with these problems. I hope so. At the same time, I greet you.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-745.ana.u92	The question-time questions on the agenda are thus exhausted. I thank Minister Galletti for his helpfulness and all the interrogations.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-745.ana.u93	The motions, questions and questions received by the Presidency will be published in Annex B to today's report.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-745.ana.u94	The Senate will meet again in public session on Tuesday 24 February, at 4.30 p.m., with the following agenda: (See agenda) The sitting was closed at 5.16 p.m.
