ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-903.ana.u1	The sitting is open (9.31 a.m.). The Minutes shall be read. Mr Colucci, Secretary, read the Minutes of the afternoon sitting of the previous day. PRESIDENT. - The debate is Since there were no comments, the Minutes were approved.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-903.ana.u2	The list of senators on leave and absent on assignment received from the Senate, as well as further communications to the Assembly, will be published in Annex B to today's Minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-903.ana.u3	The next item is the holding of questions. The first question will be asked 3-03952 on the threats received by neo-fascist formations by journalist Paolo Berizzi. The representative of the Government may answer this question.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-903.ana.u4	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, the Prefect of Bergamo, since last February, had put in place appropriate protection measures in favour of journalist Paolo Berizzi, on the basis of the findings of a technical meeting for the coordination of police forces. Following two further acts of intimidation, which took place via the web and caused damage to the journalist's car, Mr Berizzi's exposure to the risk was reviewed at the inter-force coordination meetings held on 15 and 30 March, with the result that the measures aimed at the journalist and his family were intensified. Following the occurrence of other episodes of intimidation via the web, in April and July last, the situation of the journalist was the subject of a renewed examination on 19 July. In the event, at the technical meeting for the coordination of police forces, the tutorial measures in favour of the person concerned were confirmed, in conjunction with intensification. On a more general level, I can assure you that the provincial public security authorities and the police follow with the utmost attention the episodes of intimidation that may affect the free determination of journalists in the performance of their professional activity. Their protection, like that of all other categories of people exposed to risk due to their duties, is a priority in the planning of police services within the coordinated control plans of the territory. In fact, as well as for the application of general radio-connected surveillance within the framework of the general prevention plans, the assessment of risk exposure is subject to an in-depth and periodic review, for the purposes of the balanced application of the protective devices provided for by the law. In the national territory, at the date of 13 October, 19 guardians are active, in the protection of journalists, adopted on the basis of determination of the Central Office for Personal Security Interforces, as well as 177 generic radio-connected surveillance services adopted at the disposal of the provincial public security authorities. In relation to the request of the questioners to counter the growth of neo-fascist, xenophobic and racist-inspired realities, it is noted that the legal order provides, in this respect, for some fundamental legal safeguards, among other things called for by the honourable Members themselves. In the first place, reference is made to Law No. 645 of 1952 (so-called Scelba law) on the prohibition of reorganization of the dissolved fascist party in any form and to Law No. 205 of 1993, (so-called Mancino law), which offers specific tools for the prevention and the fight against anti-Semitism, racism and xenophobia. The institutions outlined by these regulations are subject to strict and timely application by provincial public security authorities and police forces. In particular, maximum attention is paid to the prevention activity, which develops in constant monitoring and in a meticulous information collection, in order to catch the slightest signal of disturbance of order and public security and of deviation from the rules of law and peaceful coexistence. As far as legislative initiatives are concerned, I would remind myself (of course more to myself than to the honourable Members to whom I imagine it is well known) that a proposal for a law of parliamentary initiative - approved by the House of Deputies on 12 September - is being examined in this Parliament, which, by introducing the propaganda crime of the fascist and Nazi-fascist regime, extends the legal instruments to combat the phenomenon in question.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-903.ana.u5	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-903.ana.u6	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-903.ana.u7	D'ADDA (PD). Madam President, I would like to thank the Undersecretary and I am satisfied with a few comments. With regard to the category of journalists, especially for those who investigate, there is the objective problem of the continuous movement, so the measures put in place concern mainly the family: there is a car that controls the family house, but the journalist finds himself having to work and to move continuously throughout the day. That was the problem. It is possible that at the moment it is not particularly serious but could become so, precisely because he insists in an area (and also mine) of the province of Varese where with associations such as the militant community of the Twelve Rays (Do.Ra.), we had the celebration of Hitler's birthday and other very heavy events. I too am very careful and hope that the so-called Fiano bill will be approved and I put to the attention of the Undersecretary, in order to report it to the Government, the need to understand what will be the human resources and availability to be put in the field especially via the web. I would like to show you a very banal scene that portrays a former city councilman of Busto Arsizio, who during a football match salutes Fascist. (Show an image in the Assembly with a tablet pc). Moreover, he has already been charged while he was a city councilman (so an official public) for crimes related to fascism and Nazifascism: We are in this situation. I therefore believe that the impact of regulatory action, in itself excellent, can have a result insofar as we put in the field of energy and resources especially with regard to social and new IT tools. This is even a diary page on which, being from my city and having both been city councillors, I saw videos in which he incited the Xa MAS and had no idea how many kids (I know they're kids) have put hundreds of likes and positive comments to these videos. I therefore appeal to the legislative capacity but also to the legislative implementation of the Government. For the rest, I am satisfied.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-903.ana.u8	Following is the question 3-03817 on a protest demonstration held in Oristano on 12 June 2017. The representative of the Government may answer this question.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-903.ana.u9	Madam President, on 19 May last, some employees of the Municipality of Oristano, belonging to the trade union acronym USB (Basic Trade Union Union), declared the state of agitation because they did not agree on the allocation of resources allocated by the municipal administration with the productivity fund. On this issue, the Prefect of Oristano was asked for an attempt at conciliation, which took place on 7 June which, however, did not succeed. The next day, at the municipal headquarters, a meeting of workers was held at the end of which it was decided to continue the state of agitation and to send a letter to the mayor and managers of the municipality indicating the forms of protest that would be put in place. On June 13th, the municipal employees belonging to the USB union exhibited in Piazza Eleonora two flags of the said trade union organization and a banner with the writing: Get your hands off our contract. The subsequent removal of the banner by the staff of the local municipal police, which took place due to lack of regular authorization, provoked the reprobation of the protesters who considered the gesture seriously detrimental to trade union rights. On the same date, a municipal employee, acting as representative of the above-mentioned Union of Trade Unions, submitted public notice to the offices of DIGOS for the 15th of June. Such notice indicated not only the repetition of the state of agitation, but also the exhibition, in Eleonora square, of a banner with the already mentioned inscription. With regard to the proposed initiative, the quaestor of Oristano issued a specific order. On the night of September 4, unknown have again removed the flag and banner hanging in Eleonora Square. The next day, the regional representative of the USB, in relation to the facts, formalized regular complaint at the police station in Cagliari, asking that the perpetrators of the removal be identified and prosecuted. Last week, at the Municipality of Oristano, an interlocutory meeting was held between the basic trade union representatives (USB) and the mayor of Oristano, following the request of the municipal employees to know the intentions of the newly elected administration about the resolution of the dispute. The mayor has secured his commitment to the resolution of the dispute, agreeing a further meeting to be held in the coming days. Finally, it is represented that the municipal employees, while continuing the state of agitation, have excluded, at the moment, any form of protest and also the hypothesis of a repositioning of the banner in Eleonora square.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-903.ana.u10	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-903.ana.u11	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-903.ana.u12	URAS (Mixed-Mist-CP-S). I would like to thank the Secretary for his reply, for which I am satisfied. I would like to take this opportunity to raise a more general question, which concerns the relationship which has been established for some time now, between different public authorities, including at local level, and the trade union organisations of workers. Our country is a country that bases its democratic roots on the constant practice of interlocution between enterprise and work, mediated by social organizations, in particular by trade unions, but also on the relationship between public authority and workers, mediated by democratic trade union organizations, by CGIL, CISL and UIL first, but also by other trade union organizations that then configured themselves in an autonomous form. We believe that the union, as recognised by our Constitution, deserves every protection in its responsible action of mediation of relations with the enterprise and with the public authority. It is a great gym of morality and democracy. This country has strong democratic vocations, precisely because it has been able to defend democracy through the constant initiative of the union. The union counts the dead in defense of our democracy and our democratic institutions, especially in the toughest and most difficult times that our country has had to go through, in the face of an organized and structured terrorist attack. Therefore, in thanking the Ministry of the Interior, I think that we must make a jealous defense of this and intervene as much as possible through our excellent Forces of Order and the responsibility of our highest executives, beginning with the Chief of Police. We must intervene so that the peaceful demonstrations of our workers, especially if proclaimed in accordance with the laws, forms and procedures established and promoted by the trade union organizations to which they belong (CGIL, CISL, and UIL, but also USB and all the others that have been configured in the meantime), are systematically protected, in an efficient manner, as the Ministry of the Interior has shown in this case.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-903.ana.u13	Following is the question 3-03530 on the progressive closure of Italian dance bodies in lyric-symphonic foundations. The representative of the Government may answer this question.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-903.ana.u14	Madam President, allow me to begin this reply by reminding you that for the Constitutional Court, the aims pursued by the institutions for the dissemination of musical art, the training of artists and the musical education of the community are an expression of the fundamental principles of the development of culture and the protection of the historical and artistic heritage of the nation, as referred to in the first and second paragraphs of Article 9 of the Constitution. In this sense, from 2013 onwards, the Government and Parliament have put in place a series of legislative interventions aimed at dealing with the state of serious crisis in the lyrical-symphonic sector and achieving the consolidation of the managements and the relaunch of the activities of the foundations. First of all, a recovery path has been outlined for foundations in crisis, which have been called upon to present a special plan, submitted for approval - on a proposal from the government commissioner - both of MIBACT and of the Ministry of Economy and Finance. A rotating fund has also been established, to which nine lyric-symphonic foundations have had access so far. For the purposes of the restoration, Article 11 of Decree-Law No 91 of 2013, among the necessary contents to adhere to the above plan by the lyric-symphonic foundations in a state of crisis, provides, in paragraph 1, letter c), the reduction of the organic endowment of technical and administrative staff up to fifty percent of that in existence at 31 December 2012 and a rationalization of the artistic staff. For the Arena Foundation of Verona, to which the Senator refers, the integration of the recovery plan referred to in the law 28 December 2015, n. 208, article 1, paragraph 355, approved by interministerial decree of 8 September 2017, previews in addition to what is signed with the trade unions, the cessation of the activity of the body of dance stable through mobility procedure ex lege n. 223 of 1991 and/or campaign of incentive to the exodus. In this regard, the Superintendent of the Verona Arena pointed out that the number of stable tersicorei in the Foundation would not have allowed to carry out a regular dance activity except through integration with at least an equal number of added elements (...). In any case, at least six of the stable tersichoreans are close to meeting the old-age pension requirements. Therefore, the continuation of the activity of ballet, would have assumed unsustainable operating costs, punctually analysed in the plan of recovery, against laughable revenues. During the negotiation procedures, all interested parties were offered a transactive solution consisting of the provision of one-off net EUR 70 000 (...) plus the commitment to future recruitment for 120 days a year (...) for three years and the retention of the right of priority for subsequent periods. At the moment, twelve of the eighteen tersicorei concerned have accepted this transactive solution. It should also be remembered that the lyric-symphonic foundations act in full management autonomy, as stated in article 3, paragraph 2, of Legislative Decree no. 367 of 29 June 1996, and that, in the case at hand, the Recovery Plan of the Arena Foundation of Verona has been approved by the Government Authority with interministerial decree of 8 September 2017, were consequently made available, beyond the ordinary contribution FUS, additional 10 million euros, to be allocated to the reorganization of the institution and to the relaunch of the activities. Finally, I would like to point out that the draft law n. 4651, of government initiative, containing provisions on entertainment and delegations to the Government for the reorganization of the subject, recently approved by this Assembly and currently under consideration by the VII Commission of the Chamber of Deputies, strongly recognizes the value of the tradition of Italian dance bodies, with the allocation of additional funds and promotional instruments. The regulatory interventions mentioned above and the related measures adopted highlight the commitment of MIBACT and the Government to the rehabilitation of a sector considered strategic for our country, in line with Article 9 of the Constitution.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-903.ana.u15	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-903.ana.u16	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-903.ana.u17	BERNINI (FI-PdL XVII). Madam President, I would naturally like to thank Mrs Bianchi for trying to give an explanation which is actually impossible. I find myself deeply dissatisfied with this answer, of which I sincerely do not understand the meaning. I do not understand whether the Government considers the 13 lyrical-symphonic foundations responsible for the elimination of a fundamental trait of our Italian culture, that is the tradition of the dancing bodies. We know that the lyric-symphonic foundations are financed by the State to protect three areas of artistic activity: music, opera and ballet. We had 13 lyrical-symphonic foundations and we had 13 dancing bodies; now there are four dancing bodies left. Rightly the Undersecretary recalled my reference to the Verona Arena, only the last of the "excises" that have been carried out - I use a strong term in a not random way - on dance bodies that represent for us a great opportunity in different respects: cultural, social, economic and political. I explain in the few minutes available to me why this is a subject on which the Government had a profoundly short-sighted approach, certainly not cured by that Act on the show that the Undersecretary mentioned before. The Act on the Show has remained deaf, just like the policies of the Government, compared to an instance that the dancing bodies are carrying out, with petitions that reach the President of the Republic and that have unfortunately remained unheard. The real amendments, the important ones, which would have brought real funds and would have allowed real reopenings of the dancing bodies, were all cashed out. Why do I think it is a cultural value to have dance bodies at least corresponding to the 13 lyrical-symphonic foundations? Because we're the inventors of ballet. Italy has exported ballet throughout Europe and all over the world: it has exported it to France and Russia and now we are buying dance packages, just because we lack permanent dance bodies with significant costs for the various theatres of the opera. It is absolutely improbable, as well as in contempt of a norm that provides that you can not buy artistic dance packages that are different from our national offer for more than 5 percent of the total. That's what the Undersecretary knows. It is a great social limit to having dismantled the dancing bodies. We have 1.4 million young people studying ballet, who in this way succeed in having a benefit in the body and mind, removing the void, the immateriality and the sense of alienation that unfortunately the facts of everyday news dramatically tell us. They are more than young people who sign up for football associations. How can we not please and not satisfy these human resources, when in reality - and I come to the third point - the most enlightened European countries of us, like France and Germany, consider the dancing bodies an added value? Germany has 50 dance bodies and France even 95 and considers the dance bodies an enrichment, not only cultural but also the specific potential and values of the individual territories. We cannot once again have a shortsighted attitude, as well as sacrificing and mortifying the demands, needs and expectations of 1.4 million young people. We cannot once again renounce a typical and specific value of our Italian nationality and we cannot, above all, pretend that this represents a responsibility of the lyrical-symphonic foundations. The government has been deaf throughout the legislature to a fundamental requirement that our culture asks of us, to an obligation that was to correspond to a financing of lyric-symphonic foundations and to an "advancer" vision of the future that could have given answers. We will give these answers instead. In fact, I hope that, on the occasion of the formation of the next Government, we will be able not to mortify once again the requests, needs and requests that have deep roots and look to the future, as rarely happens, in contexts that unite composite dimensions such as the social, economic and cultural dimension. I therefore hope that we will be able to answer a question that never looks to the future as in this case.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-903.ana.u18	Following is the question 3-04012 on the realization of a tunnel of road connection between the port of Termoli and the promenade Cristoforo Colombo. The representative of the Government may answer this question.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-903.ana.u19	Madam President, I would like to say that this Ministry, through its territorial offices, has been following this project carefully and for several years and that I respond according to the elements provided by the Archaeology, Fine Arts and Landscape Superintendence of Molise. As correctly recalled by the interrogating senators, the Municipality of Termoli approved the preliminary draft on June 25, 2015 with a decision of the Municipal Council and in the absence of an opinion of the Ministry. On the following 7 August, the Municipality approved the public notice scheme of project financing for the design, construction and management of a multi-storey underground car park in Piazza Sant'Antonio, integrated with the preliminary project of the tunnel itself. On November 5, 2015, the City Council declared in public interest the only proposal received from the company De Francesco constructions, which took the role of promoter. On the following 27 May 2016, the Municipality announced the conference of investigative services, in relation to which the Archaeological Superintendence, Fine Arts and Landscape of Molise transmitted, on the following 1st June, note 3905, with which it was asked for the paper design documentation, not received, and it was specified that the single opinion for landscape and archaeological protection was the responsibility of the regional secretariat of the Ministry of Cultural Heritage and Activities and Tourism for Molise. According to news provided by the Superintendence itself, in the following months, technical meetings and meetings are followed, during which the regional secretary of Molise protempore and the Superintendence have asked to carry out surveys and excavations in the areas of intervention. Only on July 14 of this year, the company De Francesco transmitted an archaeological report relating only to the execution of carrots, which the Superintendence considered not exhaustive for the verification of the archaeological impact. On 10 August last the first session of the conference of decision-making services was held at the Molise Region, whose minutes are probably known to the interrogating senators, in relation to which the Superintendence of Archaeology, Fine Arts and Landscape of Molise expressed and deposited, on the same date, the negative opinion of competence, providing detailed reasons for the protection of landscape, archaeological and monumental. In particular, in the note deposited, it was reiterated that the areas concerned are subject to landscape and architectural protection in relation to the Swabian Castle of the old town and the former Adriatic cinema; moreover, the area of Piazza Sant'Antonio has in the past been the subject of finds related to ancient burials. On 13 September, at the request of the Municipality of Termoli, it was held at the headquarters of the Superintendence of Archaeology, Fine Arts and Landscape, a meeting attended by the current Superintendent, the regional secretary of Molise of the Ministry of Cultural Heritage and Activities and Tourism, the official architect of the area and a contact person of the company. During the meeting, of which the architect responsible wrote a summary report, the Superintendence proposed to verify the possibility of a modification of the project, in the part where it - through the tunnel - intercepts the open spaces and also hypogeans related to the medieval village, also indicating concerns and criticalities. The Superintendence reports that the mayor of Termoli has represented that no substantial modification would be possible, since the project, being the result of a competitive process subject to public tender, would not be amendable. The Superintendence, in taking note of this, communicates that it has found that the plan should have been submitted to the preventive opinion of the Ministry before the opening of the procedures of contest and to have indicated that, in the absence of new facts, that is of different planning forecasts that make overcome the criticalities emerged in relation to the historical and landscape heritage of the city, just in the most representative and identity place of the entire city, there emerge no elements of fact that allow to reconsider the opinion rendered in the negative sense.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-903.ana.u20	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-903.ana.u21	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-903.ana.u22	CASTALDI (M5S). Madam President, it is with great pleasure, although I am part of an opposition force, that I am satisfied, indeed very satisfied, with the answer of Mr Dorina Bianchi (which I thank), together with whom, in the Committee on Industry, Commerce and Tourism, we have tried to make our contribution to the excellent work - albeit improved - of the tourism code. I have therefore noticed the same attention also regarding the specific problem relating to the Municipality of Termoli. I am pleased to know that the Ministry has been following this issue carefully for years and I am therefore certain that, at the appropriate time, then within ten days of the conclusion of the conference of services, the Superintendence will propose the negative opinion, without leaving any possibility or trick to those who want to make a mess of this city. I can call myself a "cousin" of this city, because I am native to Vasto: they are two towns that also have a tourist rivalry, but the citizens of both places enjoy these two beautiful cities. So I want to point out that the struggle that the committees and citizens have engaged, studying the papers and dedicating time, phone calls, travels, making visits to Superintendence and here in the Senate, with the parliamentarians, and to the Ministry, has been rewarded and the seriousness of the Ministry of Cultural Heritage and Activities and Tourism blocks, in fact, with this response any desire for building speculation, which would ruin the wonderful city of Termoli.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-903.ana.u23	Question Time on the agenda is thus over.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-903.ana.u24	The motions, questions and questions received by the Presidency will be published in Annex B to today's report.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-903.ana.u25	The Senate will meet again in public session on Tuesday 24 October, at 11 a.m., with the following agenda: (See agenda) The sitting was closed at 10.04 a.m.
