ParlaMint-IT_2017-11-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-912.ana.u1	The sitting is open (9:34 a.m.). The Minutes shall be read. Mr Volpoli, Secretary, read the Minutes of the sitting of the previous day. PRESIDENT. - The debate is Since there were no comments, the Minutes were approved.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-11-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-912.ana.u2	The list of senators on leave and absent on assignment received from the Senate, as well as further communications to the Assembly, will be published in Annex B to today's Minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-11-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-912.ana.u3	I would warn you that qualified votes can be taken in the course of today's sitting by electronic means. Therefore, from this moment on, the period of 20 minutes from the notice provided for in Article 119 (1) of the Regulation (9:36 a.m.).
ParlaMint-IT_2017-11-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-912.ana.u4	The next item is the continuation of the debate on draft law No 2960. I would remind you that at yesterday's sitting the rapporteurs carried out the oral report and the general debate took place. I call the rapporteur, Senator Zanoni.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-11-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-912.ana.u5	Mr President, I have given a lot of thought to the response to the debate that took place yesterday. This was an interesting debate and I thank all those who have spoken. I must say, however, that it was a debate that was not focused on the maneuver and much on the amendments. I think this needs to be reviewed. I therefore want to start with the debate on the maneuver and then move on to the amendments. The debate on the maneuver can only be positive, because we cannot but claim its expansive character. A maneuver that aims at the revival of this country and that tries to make stronger the signs of recovery that are there. I believe that no one can question the two photographs of our country; the photograph at the beginning of the legislature and the current photograph. A country that saw a gross domestic product with a negative sign and, now, a gross domestic product with a positive sign. A country that continued to lose jobs and now has 900,000 more jobs; a country that had only manoeuvres of narrowness towards the local authorities and that now finds the possibility and basis for investment at local level. These elements are justified by the data of ISTAT: they are not data of the majority or the opposition. I therefore believe that reflecting on the overall nature of the maneuver is important. A maneuver that has been seen for three quarters committed to preventing the increase in VAT. I do not think that I have heard any intervention, either from representatives of the majority or from the opposition, suggesting that VAT should be allowed to increase in order to meet what was needed at European level. Thus, three-quarters of the maneuver engaged on VAT and the other quarter almost all occupied by interventions on pensions and big maneuvers; then a small "spicchietto" of the maneuver was dedicated to the amending part of the Senate. I believe that the Senate has fulfilled its duty and has given space to its role, i.e. to evaluate the maneuver as a whole and to make those that can be useful changes for the country. And we find a lot of these. Those who have seen the file of the amendments approved by the 5th Commission on the draft budget law 2018 can only see how many positive aspects have been touched on and how many positive amendments have been accepted for the country. Among these are some so-called small and localistic ones and I believe that it is necessary to rethink from a technical point of view the transition from the law of stability to the law of budget. I take full responsibility for what I am saying, not having, of course, had the time to share this thought. We were told that we would have to move towards a stage when Parliament would have an important role to play in defining the general principles of the maneuver without being able to enter into the minor aspects. However, I believe that this is a problem in the handle, in the rules and, given the difficulties of the last two years in the application of the budget law, perhaps a task for the next legislature will be to redefine the rules on how to deal with the budget law. I think that Parliament's role is an overall one, Chamber and Senate. The Senate played a part, everything it could in the short time available and, from this point of view, I respond to some of the observations that were made yesterday, particularly by the oppositions; it was said that we did not have the time to work calmly, during the day, having worked in poor conditions, at night and so on. I say this is our duty. In the time we have available, we must try to do the best possible work. [[Applause from Senator Favero.]] I think that there have been many hours of debate: if we had to spread them over time, in order to be able to work calmly and calmly, we would have taken a half month. We didn't have it, though, a half month. I believe that we have all done what we had to do for the country: we have concentrated in the short time available all the work that we had to do and I must say that this was possible also with the collaboration of the oppositions, that they did not back down, that they gave their support, that they did not go up to the Aventine to say that it could not be done. What have we done? We have done a lot, but much remains to be done. It was not possible to address, for example, the whole issue of the Provinces, the Regions and in part also that of the Municipalities, for reasons of time and also for the lack of technical solutions that were not yet ready. To give an example, you understand that in order to intervene on the subject of the Provinces it is obviously good to arrive also at a form of agreement with the associations that represent the Provinces themselves. Therefore, many important amendments tabled by the senators - I just quote the payback, recalling only the initials because all senators know what I am talking about - but also interventions on the individual regions will be addressed in the House. Another important aspect that I would like to stress is the great work that has been done by many senators to seek solutions that can be shared; in this research we have reached the formulation of texts that fortunately - and I think that is good for the country - were shared by majority and minority. Many of the big and important amendments (because on the little ones everyone brought water to his mill) have passed. I would like to thank here those who have worked unselfishly and generously to arrive at these shared texts. In particular, I only mention one to thank everyone. It is Senator Angioni, who has worked very hard to arrive at shared solutions: and here I thank him. We have made important measures that sometimes the oppositions have mentioned, in my opinion, in the verve of an electoral campaign that has now started, but on which I would try to make a little reflection. In a somewhat demeaning way someone yesterday, I don't even remember who, said that we gave contributions to carnival events, with a slight derogatory nuance. I would like to remind you that the carnivals of Venice, Viareggio, Sanremo, Ivrea and many others that I do not remember and do not want to mention, are great events that lead to the territory work, tourism and give commitment for a whole year of work. I quote my territory: in Pinerolo, when there is the carnival, a lot of people arrive and they all work. I believe that, within cultural events, all these things must have their dignity, even when they are more oriented to the tourism sector and to food our economy, however. I am beginning to conclude, also because everyone can read the speeches contained in these amendments by consulting the dossier of the Department of Studies which, as you can see, is very broad. I would like to recall the great speech made on the university and the researchers, on which everyone agreed that we had to work, because for us this is a strategic sector, because our young people have to stay and think here and they have to work here. So - I repeat - this is a strategic sector. We have mentioned pensions, an important intervention in favour of workers who represent the most defenceless groups, who have done the most difficult jobs for all of us and to whom we must acknowledge this commitment. I recall the assumption, above all, of a principle, of a recognition on caregivers, that is, people who in families undertake to take care of their family members, even at the expense of their own lives, their own work and their own life potential. I remember that we included on the day of November 25 dedicated to violence against women a recognition for children who are orphaned because of the feminicide and who find themselves really alone: on the one hand, they lose their mother and, on the other, they find themselves without their father. This was an important step by the Commission, because the Commission as a whole, unanimously, acknowledged that the commitment in this direction was a commitment to be made now and no longer procrastinable. We have dealt with many other issues. I am not quoting them all, but they are also small commitments, with appropriations on limited issues, but which are not localistic. For all of us, I would like to recall the allocation for the national body for the protection and assistance of the deaf, which is a small but nevertheless significant intervention of attention to our fellow citizens with difficulties. I should like to end by thanking you very much. I thank Deputy Minister Morando for his dedication, for his patience with all of us and for his tireless will to carry out the work of the Senate. I would like to thank the President of the Commission, because he, too, has tried so patiently to respond to everyone's needs, even when they were opposed, seeking a fair mediation. Of course, I thank my co-rapporteur because we fought this battle together. I would like to thank the senators present, who have, however, all the oppositions, shared this path with us and wanted to give a mandate to the rapporteurs: it is not a matter of attention to the two rapporteurs, but it means bringing the Commission's overall work here, not stopping in half, so only those who had been lucky and who had happened in the first part of the debate were refreshed. There are still technical flaws, because the work has been challenging. I thank all those who have worked, the offices of all the sectors that have engaged with us, in particular those of the Ministry of Economy and Finance. If there is still some technical deburring, surely the House will be able to make the last corrections, just as it will be possible to table some more amendments, which will take into account the work already done in the Commission in the Senate. [[Applause from the PD and AP-CpE-NCD groups and the Senators Berger, Caliendo and Fucksia]] . Congratulations). PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I call the rapporteur, Senator Gualdani.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-11-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-912.ana.u6	Mr President, my colleague has already been quite thorough and I also thank her for the friendship and patience they have had with me, for the great work and for the contribution she has made. I would like to be very quick to say that I was lucky enough to have colleagues in the Commission who were sensitive to the issues raised by the government. I've found a lot of attention. I have seen many important measures, as my colleague mentioned earlier, and almost all of them have passed by unanimously. I would like to stress that. Politically it is important to say that issues concerning the family, the caregivers, themes posed by parliamentarians but also by the government have had an important political response. I must also personally thank Deputy Minister Morando, who with little resources has done the magic to meet the requests of the groups. We have moved from the intervention on the highways to the topic posed by my friend Uras, who is sensitive to the problems concerning polygons. Even the Government finally managed to have the Ministries dialogue, bringing to port a measure that for years set itself the objective of protecting the health of the military in particular environments. I would like to highlight a subject that is very close to my heart: sport. In this case too, a choice has been made: to give the opportunity to amateur sports companies to become small profit-making companies, being able to have a future in the sports field even at a private level. I would like to thank my colleagues, the Government and my colleague, for, in my opinion, we have done a great deal of work and we have achieved excellent results in this draft budget law. [[Applause from the AP-CpE-NCD and PD groups, and Senators Bignami and Fucksia. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-11-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-912.ana.u7	I call the Vice-Minister for Economic Affairs and Finance.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-11-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-912.ana.u8	Mr President, I believe that it is necessary, now that we are about to decide, to return to the basic structure of this draft budget law on which the Senate is about to give its opinion. The key pillars of this measure are three: the first is the choice of reducing the tax burden of EUR 15 billion, provided for in existing legislation, in the belief that such a strong increase in indirect taxation, VAT and marginally excise duties, would put at risk the economic recovery that is finally being consolidated. The second pillar is to confirm and further strengthen the strong support already in place in 2017 for private investment, in the belief that it is possible, by this way, to foster that recovery of labour productivity and factors that is indispensable to recover competitive capacity in the context of the global economy. The third pillar is as follows: both for social reasons and for economic reasons it is necessary to support - and the budget law does - the labour factor, while with the second pillar we support the capital factor. It is necessary to strengthen the labour factor, especially in its youth component, because without this strengthening it risks remaining behind the capital factor in the tumultuous progress of globalization for one verse and technological revolution for the other which are supporting each other in causing shocking changes in the structure of the global economy. These are the three basic pillars. From the reading of the Senate, which we have carried out during our work in the budgetary session, this fundamental structure is fully confirmed and it is easy to arrive at this objective and difficult to argue, noting, first of all, that none of the amendments - and there were 4,000 of them, Mr President - submitted to our debate are aimed at replacing the three pillars I have mentioned and not at replacing one. It must therefore be inferred that the entire Senate, majority and opposition, has decided that these three fundamental pillars remain intact, because it has not tabled - I insist - any amendments, on 4,000 proposals, aimed at questioning any of them. Having said that, there is one further point to make: no amendment - I repeat no amendment on 4,000 - is aimed at reducing the scope of the three pillars, i.e. using some of the resources dedicated to covering them financially. No amendment tabled is aimed at weakening its financial capacity, i.e. by using a share of the resources related to the reduction of VAT pressure, provided for in existing legislation, intended for interventions on the factor of support for private investment and for measures to support the labour factor, especially in its youth component. No amendment proposed to use at least one share of the resources dedicated to this purpose to finance other types of activities and proposals. Therefore, we must conclude that, aware of this intangibility of the essential structure of the budget law, the majority - and this is quite obvious - but also opposition - this is far less obvious - have focused their attention, i.e. their amending proposals, on the non-essential components of the building constituted by the budget law on our examination. This is not the judgement of part of the Government; it is a judgment that is nourished by the punctual examination of the amendments tabled to our debate. The oppositions have, therefore, renounced - my opinion is that they have done well, but this is no longer an objective assessment - to present for the debate even the basic lines of their alternative strategy of economic and fiscal policy. These are the basic lines which, on the other hand, had characterized the parliamentary resolutions on the Update Note to the DEF, which both Forza Italia and Lega, on the one hand, and Movimento 5 Stelle, on the other, presented to our debate just a few weeks ago. In fact, Mr President, I have tried, in vain, among the amendments tabled for the debate, something that referred to those basic lines. Allow me at this point to express my appreciation, as a representative of the Government to be judged by the amending proposals, of the structural reform introduced in fact for the parliamentary debate of the Senate on the budgetary law with the use of the stage of illustration in order to obtain to the Senate the same concrete result that is obtained in the Chamber under Regulation through the procedure of official reporting by the Groups of the amendments that they really intend to submit to the debate. This is an innovation, achieved thanks to the consensus of all the political forces in the Senate with their Groups, which completes a draft reform in fact of the rules of discussion of the budget law started in the Senate for a long time (starting from the Pera Presidency) and which is coming, in my opinion, to very interesting conclusions that it would be good to formalize - but this is no longer my business - in a reform of the Senate Rules. This is a consideration that I have been an outside observer since this parliamentary term. I have searched in vain among the amendments mentioned an amendment on pensions of Forza Italia and Lega that translates into legislative proposal the absolutely fundamental indication in the resolution on the Update Note to the DEF of Forza Italia and Lega aimed at bringing back the regulation on pensions in Italy to the pre-Fornero situation. Both the League senators and the Forza Italia senators know that I'm not talking about something I'm making up right now. In the resolution of Lega e Forza Italia this indication was present and, given the enormous financial importance that this indication has, I expected that with the necessary coverage this indication would result in a parliamentary amendment. Well, this amendment was not in our examination, and it is a positive fact from my point of view that it was not there, but this is very significant of the credit that the same proposing forces assign to this proposal for the future of the country: they do it, they did it during the resolution of NADEF, but it is a license that they do not believe us; if they had believed it, they would have presented it as an amending proposal alternative to the solutions indicated in the budget law. Just as, for the first time, I have tried in vain among the amendments pointed out by the 5 Star Movement's amendment aimed at introducing citizenship income in Italy, a measure that is worth just a little more in financial terms than that introduced in the budget law aimed at eliminating the increase in VAT tax burden that is provided by the current legislation from 1 January 2017. For technical assessments shared between the Government and the 5 Star Movement Group, the introduction of a citizenship income, as designed by the 5 Star Movement, is roughly 17 billion euros; in the same way the elimination - this we can say with more certainty because there are technical reports to the budget law - of the so-called safeguard clauses, i.e. of the increases in VAT provided for in current legislation, is worth about 15 billion euros. So it would have been legitimate to propose one thing instead of the other; roughly it would have been an alternative solution. This proposal has not been put forward, nor have any other proposals been tabled, which means that obviously there is a need to "find" more solid financial cover than in the past than is traditionally the case for this measure. It seems to me, therefore, to have pointed out a fact, what concerns the absence of the fundamental and alternative proposal both of the 5 Star Movement and of Forza Italia and Lega Nord, which can be judged positively or negatively, but it is difficult to deny that it is a fact. Now, it is from this point on, of course, that it seems to me that the general political implications of the draft budget law must be considered. So far the general considerations. Coming instead to the concrete measures introduced, stops the fundamental structure of the budget law considered intangible by both the majority and the opposition, the changes introduced on the margins, even if they are substantial changes, during the reading of the Senate Budget Committee of the law, are absolutely significant in this context. The first innovation is the translation into law of the contents of the budget law. (Brusio). I am very happy with the attention I can get, especially from the Democratic Party Group, but let's forget it. I was saying about the law translation of the content of the agreement concluded between the Government and two of the three trade union organizations concerning the regulation of the public pension system. I insist on the political value of this fact not only and not so much in itself, because it is an intervention which, from the point of view of financial importance, is significant, but not as accident as were the pension measures that we have gradually adopted since 1995 onwards, under the direction and impetus of different governments which, however, for the essential, have always acted in line with the objective of stabilising social security expenditure and reducing the enormous inequalities that characterized the public welfare system before that date. I am referring explicitly - to be clear - to the intervention of the Dini Government of 1995, to the subsequent intervention of the Prodi Government and then to the very incident intervention, and in my opinion consistent with the overall installation of the center-right Government, known as the Maroni intervention and finally the introduction, under the Monti Government, of the final changes to the system of the so-called Fornero law. It is clear that the intervention we are talking about now in the area of pensions does not even remotely have the effect, both financial and effective, on the regulation of the system of these interventions that I have called for. However, the intervention marks a very important settlement on the margins, because at last it codifies and creates the conditions for a much more meaningful and definitive codification in the near future (as far as the choice in this field can be final) of the so-called usurious works, and for now heavy. These are of course, by definition, particularly complex in an economy that continues to change and therefore systematically produces, on the one hand, fortunately, thanks to the new technologies, the emergence of categories of workers from those work activities and which have the characteristic of shortening the life expectancy at the time of retirement but, on the other hand, the technological revolution itself introduces new risks from this point of view for other categories of workers. If, therefore, the economy has this feature, we will never stop updating this list both to exclude and to include categories of workers, but there is no doubt that here there is something new, structural and significant that is introduced by this change to the regulation of the social security system compared to the previous phase. What, however, shows politically is the full recovery of a report - it does not matter that the outcome has seen two trade union organizations converge with the Government's proposal and a trade union organization instead judge negatively its results: the dialectic will continue to develop - between the government and the social partners that was to some extent lacking and I consider this to be a positive factor. The second significant adjustment on the margins is the introduction of the web tax, an important novelty in my opinion, which has been underestimated by the debate on average. Italy takes the initiative, breaks the delay, in an international context that is amending its guidelines on this point. [[Applause from the PD Group and Senator Bianconi.]] Therefore, we must be proud of this intervention: Italy had said (and is maintaining what she said) to the partners of European and international organizations that if they had made a proposal to regulate the taxation of the big web giants, Italy would have been inside, would have participated in the elaboration of this solution and would have adopted it immediately, but that they would not have had to think, for opposing national interests, of beating the dog for the threshing floor for a long time because, on the basis of a mature elaboration, if the solution of European and international dimension had not come immediately, Italy would have taken the initiative to introduce the so-called web tax. The solution has not arrived; the solution worked out in Parliament - and this makes it even more significant and I would like to thank Senator Cucchetti in this regard - naturally with the active contribution of the Government to the definition of a solution that was positive. In this regard, I would like to say that the Government is aware - I am sorry, Mr President, I will take a few more minutes, if you will allow me - of the particular and significant request for help which we are addressing to the Italian banking system with this solution. I want to make that clear in this reply. We know that without the contribution of the banking system and the financial intermediaries the web tax we have outlined could not have worked (for this reason we have not hesitated to introduce the hypothesis of the substitute of tax for the concrete exation of this tax otherwise not payable), but we are ready to a comparison with the banks to find the forms of compensation, because we know that we have given it to carry out a further fulfillment. We will certainly do so by developing an open and transparent dialogue, in the light of day, with the representations of these institutions. The second very significant choice of the Senate in this regard was the total use of the resources brought about by the so-called family fund, with a very significant addition of resources from Article 92, the fund to meet indifferent needs, for an intervention in favour of the family, in particular of the birth rate. This is an already very significant financial intervention and if it is to be adjusted to the House it will be, because the Government shares the choice, in particular made by the AP Group, to support this perspective with concrete and timely reforms to be introduced during the examination of this draft budget law. Another intervention to be carried out in cooperation with the Regions is the proposal to introduce a rule concerning cooperation between the regions and the central state to reduce the social impact of the so-called superticket in health. A significant volume of resources has been devoted to the introduction of cooperation between the regions and the central state on this side. One last, in my opinion, significant intervention concerns capital expenditure, namely the intervention on the so-called Umbria-Marche quadrilateral, aimed at finally bringing to conclusion the work, which has been in place since time immemorial, for the realization of the cross-sections (one towards the North and the other more towards the South) that allow the crossing of the Apennine obstacle for the connection between the two seas. The reading of the Chamber will be able to complete this design through the introduction, in particular, of measures on the side of regional and local autonomy: the Regions with ordinary statutes and the completion of the operations carried out on the side of the Regions with special statutes. I am thinking in particular of the Valle d'Aosta, to which Senator Laniece must thank for the decisive contribution to the definition of a hypothesis of solution, which can be concretely feasible only in the Chamber because there will be the resources brought by the tax decree (through the approval of a specific amendment that Senator Laniece well knows). Finally, the House will have to accompany the revolution - because of this - of the introduction of mandatory e-invoicing also for commercial transactions between private individuals, with specific and contemporary measures to reduce compliance, thus increasing the simplification of tax burdens on taxpayers. If we want to consolidate the novelty of the introduction of mandatory e-invoicing also for commercial transactions between private individuals, if we want to show that it works, we need to ensure that taxpayers do not receive mere promises that the system will be simplified, but see the simplification of the system proceed at the same time as the introduction of mandatory e-invoicing. Under these conditions, it will be a success and will be a decisive innovation in the battle for reducing the tax burden in Italy. [[Applause from the PD and AUT groups (SVP-UV-PATT-UPT) - PSI-MAIE and Senator Bianconi.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-11-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-912.ana.u9	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-11-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-912.ana.u10	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-11-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-912.ana.u11	ENDRIZZI (M5S). Mr President, I would like to put two regulatory questions to you. The question of confidence in the measure we are debating has not been raised by the Government, so I would ask you to confirm that we are now going to examine text A, which has been settled in recent hours, and to vote on the amendments. Otherwise, I don't know how we'll be able to comply with Senate regulations. I understand that confidence has been announced in an irrational manner, already in the Budget Committee, but we cannot assume that the work of this House should be interrupted pending something which has not been formally announced. I would ask you to confirm this, and then, if necessary, to follow up, I have another question to put to you.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-11-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-912.ana.u12	In the meantime, we are at a stage when, as you know, we have given a deadline for tabling amendments, which have not yet been fully received. SANTANGELO (M5S). It was at 10 o'clock, Mr. President. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. We know it was at 10 a.m., but we must also examine, disciplined and fascicolati, so we would still not be able to comply with your request, Senator Endrizzi, since the deadline has expired so recently. In the meantime, I would like to ask the representative of the Government to speak on the point you raised.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-11-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-912.ana.u13	Mr President, as Mr Endrizzi reminded us, the Government announced in the Budget Committee its intention to put the question of confidence in the text approved by the Commission. As you know, many, and indeed a great many, have been the amendments accepted, even practically in the morning of yesterday, which requires a supplement of work by the General Accounting Office of the State in the definition and control of the work done. Since this is a particularly complex and laborious work, I would ask the President to suspend the sitting and propose that it be reconvened at 2 p.m., in order to enable the Accounting Office to prepare and deliver the technical report, so that the question of trust in the Commission's text can be raised when the proceedings of this House are resumed. AIROLA (M5S). You're already late!
ParlaMint-IT_2017-11-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-912.ana.u14	We greet the pupils, the students, the accompanying students and the teachers of the Institute including Via Val Maggia in Rome, who follow our work. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-11-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-912.ana.u15	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-11-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-912.ana.u16	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-11-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-912.ana.u17	ENDRIZZI (M5S). I note that the institution of the deposit on trust has been introduced, i.e. the announcement of the imminent imposition of the question of trust, which is not placed: that it remains in the acts, however, that this cannot be considered a precedent, because it does not comply with the Rules of the Senate. I believe that this is not only irrational, but also offensive, because our Offices have worked in the night to prepare the amendments to text A for the Assembly and have done so under this sword of Damocles and with this secret of Pulcinella, that is, the presentation of a maxi amendment and the imposition of a question of trust that the Government announces, but does not pose: and it cannot do so, because it is not ready. And he is not prepared to do so, not because of the many amendments that have been adopted, but because of the many matters included in the clear violation of the Rules of Procedure and the accounting law that the Rules of Procedure recognize, recall and take up. I want to say that the accounting law provides that amendments which do not have an impact on public finances are not admissible. Amendments, parts of amendments or actual laws with legal content in the budget law are not acceptable. The budget law is not the landfill of the responsibilities of the government, of all the things that the government has failed, has not wanted or has not been able to realize and of those that it has had to pay to the members of the next electoral campaign in terms of localistic brands; also these are clearly excluded from the budget law. [[Applause from Senators Lucidi and Fucksia]] We do have a lot of them. Here we have an extract...
ParlaMint-IT_2017-11-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-912.ana.u18	Senator Endrizzi, please don't do a budget intervention. We'll do it later.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-11-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-912.ana.u19	ENDRIZZI (M5S). It is not a budget intervention, it is a regulatory call. PRESIDENT. - The debate is That is a point of order, but if you go into the substance of the budget, that is another point. [[Comments of Senators Airola and Santangelo]] Please continue. ENDRIZZI (M5S). The call is to his responsibilities as President of the Senate because here we have a pot-pourri of localistic measures. I quote a few: the one for the Institute of the Innocents of Florence... BUEMI (Misto-FdV). But if you don't talk about the budget, what are you talking about? [[Protests of Senators Airola and Santangelo]] LUCIDES (M5S). Shut up! ENDRIZZI (M5S). I see the tongue beats where the tooth hurts. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I have already made a point of not going into the substance of the budget. ENDRIZZI (M5S). President, let us start with your responsibilities. SANTANGELO (M5S). Do it with Zanda. At least once do it with Zanda! PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator Santangelo, you are not authorized to speak. [[Comments of Senators Buemi and Lucidi]] Senator Buemi, please try not to intervene if you don't have permission. [[Comments of Senator Airola]] ENDRIZZI (M5S). So let us start from his responsibilities in principle and then I will motivate them because I call them back. The Rules of the Senate, in Chapter XV, devote a considerable and detailed space to the procedure for examining acts relating to the budget of the State, entrusting to the President of the Senate, that is to say to you, President, as guarantor of the respect of the legislation in force in the matter of accounting and of the Regulation itself, the task, for example, already before the allocation, of ascertaining the possible presence of foreign provisions. And you have exercised this task, you have taken responsibility for it, and we are asking that you take on this responsibility even now. In fact, the Regulation expressly recalls the current legislation on accounting and makes it its own, so it assigns to these regulations, here, a rank superordained to the budget law itself. The budget law cannot violate the Rules of Procedure and what the Rules of Procedure protect. [[Applause from the M5S Group and Senator Fucksia]] Rule 128 (6) of the Rules of Procedure clearly states that: The amendments, both parliamentary and governmental, to the draft budget law, which conflict with the rules of coverage laid down by the legislation in force for the same financial law or outside the scope of the budget law, are inadmissible....................................................................................................................................................................... As I said before, both local and non-budget matters are excluded; this exclusion is provided for in the Rules of Procedure, and you are the main guarantor of this regulation, together with the Committee on the Rules of Procedure. Well, now what, in our view, are the rules introduced stealthily and in violation of the Rules of Procedure? I mentioned only a few, but it is really a pot-pourri: the contribution in favor of the Vivarium Novum Academy, the contributions to the Luigi Sturzo Institute, the fund for the preservation and information of the archives of political movements, the Italian Foundation for research on pancreatic diseases, the Graziadio Isaia Foundation of Ascoli. Mr Morando, Deputy Minister for Economic Affairs and Finance. It is "Ascoli" (ascoli), not "ascoli" (ascoli) " (ascoli) " (ascoli) " (ascoli) " (ascoli) " (ascoli) " (ascoli) " (ascoli) " Then we have the interventions for the Municipality of Cogoleto and so on. They were also mentioned in detail by my colleague, Mr Montevecchi, not later than last night. If we look at the government's own-initiative amendments, we find the great Pompeii project, the ATA staff of the schools, the aerospace sector, the changes to the beautiful schools plan. I do not allow speculation on this point. We are not discussing the substance and the goodness of these rules but, as has already been said, the fact that they are being removed from a parliamentary debate and that, therefore, they must be discussed in these fora by following the correct procedure, i.e. in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. We also have other amendments of parliamentary initiative, such as the way of registering in the National Register of Sports Agents, Senator Santini, or the assignment of functions on waste to the Authority for Electricity, Gas and Water System, of Senator Falanga. You, President, are called upon to assess, as you did at the time when the budget law was assigned to the Senate, that these matters do not fall within the law of accounting. All the more so, if a large amendment by the Government is tabled on this text A, which we already have available. On this, too, if there is a discrepancy with text A, the competent Commissions will have to give their opinion and you, Mr President, will have to give your opinion on the matters I have just referred to. So, now, on the basis of text A, all the more so if the question of trust in the maxi amendment is raised, I would ask you to assume a responsibility that is yours alone. [[Applause from the M5S Group and Senator Fucksia.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-11-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-912.ana.u20	Senator Endrizzi, as we are talking about the Rules of Procedure, I would like to make it clear that I exercised my duties when the budget law came in, and that I expressed my concerns, and then all the responsibility goes to the President of the Commission who worked. I will return to my prerogatives as soon as the amendments are in place and we will return to this House. This is the Rules of Procedure, and the responsibility lies with the President of the Commission who has had this situation in his hands.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-11-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-912.ana.u21	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-11-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-912.ana.u22	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-11-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-912.ana.u23	[[Senator Endrizzi points out that he wants to intervene.]] Senator Endrizzi, I will give you the floor again at the end of Senator Guerra's intervention. [[Senator Spousetti's comments.]] WAR (Art. 1-MDP). Mr President, I am waiting for a moment because Senator Sposetti has made the habit of interrupting me always both in the Commission and in this House. Very funny. Finished? Good. I just wanted to make a notation in front of this unfortunate episode. Many times it has happened that the maxi amendment was not ready and therefore it does not upset me so much; maybe you could take some precautions in the majority or you did more interventions, at least to save the form. That is not the point, however. What I want to stress is that, in the light of what is happening, I must confirm an opinion that I have made these days; if the budget law at our examination, the most important measure for our country, will arrive in port, it will be paradoxically thanks to the attitude responsible for the oppositions - which will not vote for it - rather than that of the majority. In fact, even in the Commission, Mr President, we have been late in time due to difficulties internal to the majority, witnessing hours and hours of unupbuilding bargaining, to which we have never responded - I am talking about oppositions as a whole - with attitudes, not speaking of obstructions, but also of simple respect for banal rules of procedure, such as voting on all the amendments or things like that. There has been a debate, a complete closure of the opposition amendments, but we will talk about this. I would also like to point out that I have heard both from the rapporteur and from the Government stress, almost as if it were elementary, the fact that the law is made in instalments, one in the Senate and one in the House, as was the case for the tax decree and, in this legislature, for almost all the measures. I believe that this continuous slap on the Constitution which, for now, provides for a bicameral system, is also a slap on us in our role of representation because we, in the current Constitution, are obliged, in addition to having the wish, to examine all the laws that pass with a full reading and not only with a vote of confidence on a text acquired by another House. [[Applause from the groups Art.1-MDP and Misto, and Senator Lucidi.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-11-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-912.ana.u24	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-11-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-912.ana.u25	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-11-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-912.ana.u26	DE PETRIS (Misto-SI-SEL). Mr President, I have to say that the fact that we can perhaps begin to examine the amendments could be an element of satisfaction, so finally the Government and Deputy Minister Morando, who just said that they did not notice that amendments had been tabled which were a different approach to manoeuvre, would finally become aware of the opposite. Frankly, therefore, we would be very pleased not to suspend the sitting and move forward with our work. Mr President, I want to tell you that what is happening is truly incredible. It is true that there have been other occasions on which the Government has presented itself late, but all this - I do not know if because of the fact that the baby is still going on or I do not know which others for which we continue to accumulate delays - as I said, is becoming frankly unbearable. President. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: Even then this morning we come to the Chamber with the prosopopea of those who give lessons to others. I repeat that it is absolutely unbearable. I would therefore ask you, Mr President, to ensure that this unfortunate affair is concluded quickly. I would also like to say one more thing about the issue of inadmissibility, and I would like to address my colleagues in the 5 Star Movement. It is a little difficult to make a request now to President Grasso, since even the Government does not know at this time what has been placed within the maxi amendment. It is, however, a fact, Mr President, that even in the course of the work of the Budget Commission, unfortunately, there have been violations: on the question of fairness, we have had cases of acceptance of sub-amendments - and I am addressing Mr Tonini in particular - relating to amendments which dealt with a whole other issue. TONINI (PD). There was one and we took it off. DE PETRIS (Misto-SI-SEL). Unfortunately, compliance with our Rules of Procedure and the accounting law has remained in the background, and it has not been a very substantial element. I would therefore like to speak, Mr President, to say that it would be absolutely appropriate for the time to be shortened: I know that the responsibility is then with the Government, but I am addressing you, Mr President, because I believe that it would be absolutely necessary to begin to see the amendments and not to have a suspension until 2 p.m. I would add that with the fact that confidence has been announced, a part of text A arrived last night at 9 p.m., another part arrived at 10 a.m. this morning. It is clear that in all this, Mr President, there has been a difficult situation in the Groups because of the pre-announcement of the vote of confidence itself, which, as we see today, is not able to formalise quickly, given that the maxi amendment is not yet ready. However, I believe that patience is beginning to end, because it is now two weeks, if not more, that we are going on in this way. [[Applause from Senator Barozzino.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-11-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-912.ana.u27	Senator De Petris, you have highlighted all the difficulties that have been regularly pointed out and that, as you can well understand, involve a difficulty on the part of the Offices themselves that are working unfailingly since 5.30 a.m. on the day when the work in the Budget Committee ended, and that is precisely why it is a gradual result. DE PETRIS (Misto-SI-SEL). To clarify, I would like to add that I did not want to blame the Offices. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I wanted to say that precisely these integrations [[. (Comments from Senator De Petris]] Please, Senator De Petris, you have the floor, although we cannot discuss this.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-11-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-912.ana.u28	Excuse me, Mr President, but we have already been told that we have confidence in the work of the Commission, and this has produced a situation of a certain kind even with regard to oppositions, as you well understand. I am not angry with the offices but, given how the work went on, it is clear that that is the result of everything that happened, so we have come to this situation. It's not the Office's fault! It is the fault of those who, politically, brought us into this situation.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-11-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-912.ana.u29	However, the effect was to have put the Offices in difficulty in having to put together all the previous work of the Commission. So the deadline for tabling amendments is 10 a.m. And if the texts have been made visible near, once again, today there is a problem of the Offices in being able to fascicate the amendments that have been tabled and therefore, even if we want to, we are not in a position to move forward in the ordinary procedure at this moment. That is the problem we have, precisely because of the issues that you have represented. [[Senator Spousetti is nodding his desire to intervene.]] Senator Spousetti, you asked Senator Endrizzi to intervene. Then I will give the floor to you, who have asked to speak only at this moment. BEEPS (PD). Mr President, you must make a decision and not talk to the representatives of the groups. First he gave the floor to Senator De Petris, then to Senator Guerra and now he gives it to Senator Endrizzi! PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator Spousetti, I think it is right that this House should know how things went. I give the floor to the group leaders, as set out in the Rules of Procedure. However, you have the right to speak.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-11-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-912.ana.u30	Mr President, you must make a decision! We were in the Budget Committee until yesterday morning at 5 a.m. with the Government, its Offices and its collaborators. There is a request made in this House. Now, even in a small municipality a problem of this kind can happen, about the timing. A request has been made to you, Mr President, but we cannot stand here and listen to Endrizzi and De Petris! [[Vivacious protests from the M5S Group and Senator De Petris. Applause from Senator Pagnoncelli.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-11-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-912.ana.u31	Senator Spousetti, if you don't want to stay here and listen, you have the freedom to leave.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-11-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-912.ana.u32	BEEPS (PD). But you have to make a decision! PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. We must respect all the demands: the demands of the Government and also those of the Groups and the Leaders, that is clear. [[Senator Spousetti's comments.]] We heard what the government asked for. We're in the same trouble. BEEPS (PD). Yes, but you must have respect. But, I mean, what are you telling me?
ParlaMint-IT_2017-11-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-912.ana.u33	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-11-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-912.ana.u34	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-11-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-912.ana.u35	ENDRIZZI (M5S). Mr President, you have provided a fairly clear picture: your responsibility is manifested, it is realized, it is realized when the text arrives in this House. Before this moment, it is the Commission's responsibility. That is what you say. But the Commission's work is over. We have the text Already available, or next to arrive, and it is on that text that I call his responsibility. Today that text is the victim of the bulimia marchettara of government and majority, which have included everything. PRESIDENT. - The debate is These are merit assessments, Senator Endrizzi. ENDRIZZI (M5S). In Veneto they say: "A gaina ingroda ghe sciopa el gosso," that is, the greedy chicken cracks the gozzo. The Government, in fact, has forgotten paragraphs 21-d and 21-e: there are no subparagraphs. We have seen it a year ago; we have seen it before. On the correctness and regularity of that text, Mr President, you are required to assess both from a formal and substantive point of view and from a content point of view, as well as the presence within it of the thousandprorogates, which are already in themselves an institutional and constitutional shame as they affect the people's confidence in the law. [[Applause from Senator Lucidi]] At this point, however, this is more serious, at a time when we have seen the Commission reject, by changing its opinion, the admissibility of the amendment on the abolition of vitalities, on which everyone here says that they agree but then behave differently. And Senator Spousetti is the champion of the battle for the maintenance of privileges. [[Senator Spousetti's protests. Applause from the M5S Group.]] Having said that, Mr President, I do not want to discuss the matter either, but with regard to regulatory correctness, you, on this text A, are required to respond. And he will be called again at the time when the Government will present the maxi amendment. If it happens, because I'm not used to thinking about ghosts. [[Applause from the M5S Group. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-11-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-912.ana.u36	I've already answered you, Senator. I suspend the sitting until 2 p.m., according to the Government's requests, so that the offices can also work on the amendments. (The sitting was suspended at 10.47 a.m. and resumed at 14.14 a.m.) Let's resume our work. He asked the government representative to intervene.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-11-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-912.ana.u37	Mr President, I would like to say to my fellow Members that the maxi-boiled amendment is in the process of being sent and, precisely in relation to my fellow Members and also reminding them of the delay of one of the last trusts, I am sure that I will have it physically in my hands at 3 p.m. and I will be able to produce it to the Presidency.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-11-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-912.ana.u38	I therefore suspend the sitting again until 3 p.m. (The sitting was suspended at 2.15 p.m. and resumed at 3.10 p.m.) Let's resume our work. He asked the Minister for Relations with Parliament, Senator Finocchiaro. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-11-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-912.ana.u39	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, on behalf of the Government, authorised by the Council of Ministers, I put the question of confidence in the approval, without amendments, sub-amendments or additional articles, of the amendment that I am going to present, entirely replacing the articles of Part I - Section I of the draft law No 2960 - State budget for the financial year 2018 and multiannual budget for the three-year period 2018-2020, which transposes the amendments approved by the Commission with some technical and institutional corrections and additions.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-11-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-912.ana.u40	The Presidency takes note of the position of the matter of confidence on the adoption of the amendment fully replacing the articles of Part I - Section I of draft law No 2960. I invite the Conference of Leaders to organise the relevant debate.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-11-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-912.ana.u41	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-11-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-912.ana.u42	You have the right to do so. Senator Endrizzi, I'll give you 30 seconds.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-11-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-912.ana.u43	ENDRIZZI (M5S). Mr President, before the previous suspension, I asked you to consider immediately, with regard to text A, as soon as the Government's maxi amendment had possibly been submitted to the resumption of work, the admissibility of the parts of text A, and now of the maxi amendment, with respect to the constraints imposed by the accounting law as regards the budget law; constraints which - as I recall - are confirmed and protected by the Rules of the Senate, under article 128, paragraph 6. I look forward to your pronunciation of this aspect.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-11-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-912.ana.u44	Senator Endrizzi, as you know, the maxi amendment is sent to the 5th Commission, which will express itself precisely on the aspects you have highlighted. The Commission is empowered to convene immediately and will express its views on what you have been looking at. Then, you will receive an answer. The sitting is suspended and will resume at the end of the Conference of Leaders. ENDRIZZI (M5S). No! PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I immediately convened the Conference of Leaders. (The sitting was suspended at 15.12 a.m. and resumed at 15.59 a.m.)
ParlaMint-IT_2017-11-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-912.ana.u45	The Conference of Leaders organised work on the question of trust posed by the Government on the amendment entirely replacing Part I - Section I of the draft budget law for the financial year 2018. Thirty-five minutes were allocated for the discussion on trust, on the basis of specific requests from the Groups. The explanations of vote will follow. The call will therefore start around 6 p.m. After the vote of confidence, the amendments and articles of Part II - Section II of the draft law will be voted on. The session will then be suspended to allow the Government to present the Note of changes to the budget which, as soon as forwarded, will be immediately referred to the 5th Permanent Commission. The Assembly will then proceed to the vote of the Note of variations and to the final vote of the draft budget law by electronic procedure. The final explanations of vote will take place in a single phase, coinciding with the explanations of vote on the matter of trust. The deadline for tabling amendments to the proposal for a comprehensive reform of the Senate Rules of Procedure was set at 7 p.m. on Friday 1 December.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-11-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-912.ana.u46	I declare open the debate on the question of trust. Senator Crosio is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-11-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-912.ana.u47	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the maxi mum amendment has finally arrived. A difficult birth, but in the end you created your little monster. Despite the expectation, and despite yet another confidence, today will be a beautiful day, a wonderful day, as the great Vasco said, because it will finally be the last, or the penultimate of an endless series of trusts. You're at the end of the line, dear Minister. Finish the musique. I would like to address my colleagues in the Democratic Party and those in this House who have an abnormal number of trusts on their conscience: ten with Letta, fifty-nine with Renzi and twenty-one with Gentiloni Silveri. Do you know how many are there? Ninety trusts in five years: Bingo, Bingo, Bingo, Ninety as the fear in the Neapolitan defense or as ninety degrees in a geometry that does not use the goniometer but that unfortunately the Italians have learned to know well. In this regard, ladies and gentlemen, I would urge you to re-read what was stated on 24 February 2014, precisely in this Chamber, the new President of the Council, Renzi Matteo. In asking for the first confidence of a very long series, which today should close, apostrophe the Assembly of the Senate with its unmistakable arrogance, reminding us that trust is a serious thing, that giving trust to its Government was a kind of privilege for this Senate, ruling, and I quote: "Today confidence means proposing a bold, unified vision and for some innovative aspect, which starts from the language of frankness with which I communicate from the beginning," Renzi communicated to us, "that I will be the last President of the Council to ask for confidence in this Chamber." [[Applause from Senators Buemi and Rizzotti]] A government is not asking for it, a country is asking for it: Italy, he said, and in his heart had already canceled the Senate. We all remember those moments in which, with prodigious ease, Matteuccio yours deceived and deceived the Italians. Definitely a Nobel word. However, the facts, dear Matteuccio, have gone quite differently and even if you have extorted ninety trusts to this Senate, the first time you asked the Italians, they sent you back to the sender. Do you remember the referendum on constitutional reform? But let us come to the measure on which you ask for the ninetieth confidence: the budget law. We didn't expect miracles, but at least the minimum union. A budget law should boost the economy, reinvigorate the production system, stimulate the enterprise, give an injection of confidence to the market. To restore confidence and hope to the Italians: this is the action that all governments seek to support in favor of their economic and social system. None of this. Everything in line with the disaster generated over the years. Deputy Minister Morando, unfortunately, is absent. I wanted to turn to him to tell him that it is not, as he said this morning, a question of pillars, it is a question of foundations that are missing. Take, for example, earthquake zones. Some time ago, colleagues from the League Group visited the earthquake zones. Good, bad. What is tragically seen is the result of your Government: a disconcerting abandonment, rubble and desolation. This, unfortunately, is the plastic representation of your government, which is the same as the earthquake zones you have abandoned. In this regard, it is always appropriate to remember again the words of that famous 24 February and of that famous Renzi Matteo, in this case accompanied by the illustrious colleague as well as archist Renzo Piano, whom I would define in this case as a candid inspiration, I run, however, to expect from Matteo Renzi the impossible. That is that his statement, or invitation from Renzo Piano, to mend our territories and suburbs, did not produce in Renzi's head a bovine interpretation and to the letter of thought, academically without inhibitions, by Renzo Piano, misinterpreted by Renzi. Dear colleagues, Renzi has in fact worked on patches, a bit like my grandmother did regularly with my pants when I was a kid, with the difference that Matteo Renzi's patches and yours are worse than the hole, like this budget. Yours is a patched action, made of momentary and disarticulated remedies. In recent years, starting with the Monti Government, we have seen an exponential increase in the tax burden, which you have always justified by saying that it is Europe that has been Ask us. Send back decisions that should be taken immediately and, indeed, it is already too late. Like, for example, the issue of Alitalia; everything is probably postponed until after the elections. Dear Minister for Infrastructure and Transport, Delrio, who is responsible for an unprecedented failure on infrastructure. Delrio, however, did something good for someone: he was very skilled in defending the interests of motorway dealers. But to history, alas, it will pass for the one who made a law that bears his name, precisely the Delrio law, destroying the Provinces and creating political and administrative chaos in territories administered in an excellent way, with criterion and judgment. I would also like to remind you that decisions have been postponed, such as those on the agreement with the Swiss Confederation, which is particularly close to my heart and concerns 90,000 cross-border workers, and has been standing still for two years; 90,000 workers in uncertainty, with the certainty that this agreement must still be rewritten. The list of your misdeeds is endless, but there is one issue that is unsustainable. Our country continues to hold the primacy of the import of illegal immigrants and the export of young people who leave our country. Colleagues, serious consideration must be given to this matter. Attention, we are losing an entire generation on which we should instead base our future. Our young people leave a country in which they see no prospects, a country that gives neither hope nor - I repeat - prospects. The news is today: according to data from ISTAT, it increases Italian graduates who go abroad, attesting to more than 9 percent. According to ISTAT data, in 2016 both immigrants and migrants increased. On this issue we cannot understand what you have in your battered heads. Today, the young people who leave our country are no longer those who can be traced back to Max Frisch's definition of "we wanted arms," men have arrived. We're losing a multitude of professionals, technicians, highly qualified people. We have already moved from those of the first job to professionals of the highest quality. I can guarantee it out of direct experience. Look who are gloating abroad because they can afford to choose at will and I can also guarantee that these people in Italy do not come back anymore, or rather, they will hardly come back and if they do, it will be to spend the summer holidays. This is little, but sure; they will not return to their country. I therefore call for serious consideration. Who are we replacing the Italians who leave our country with? Do you believe that what is happening is right? The most depressing and unsustainable thing is that our European partners, dear Minister, sponsored by the stepmother Europe, are quick to close their borders in Ventimiglia or Brennero, even with tanks if they need to be. Instead we favor this uncontrolled invasion, and then close in beauty - and on this you will have to pass on our bodies - perhaps giving citizenship to everyone. I am thinking of the children who are 18 years old today, born in 1999: be serene that will not be those of the Piave. There would be many other issues on which I would like to present you with the account, which Mr Tosato spoke fully this morning. He too Veneto, like all the part of Venetians cheated by banks, people you can't defend and protect. You are sketching, once again patching up, something to try to wash your conscience. Certainly it will take ten thousand years to remove the issue of banks from the conscience of Maria Elena Boschi and family; better to remember it every now and then. I conclude, Mr President, by saying that we are certain of one thing about the presentation of the bill. We are at the end of the line and the count on your wrongdoing will be presented to you by the Italians in March, when we finally have free and democratic elections in our country; then perhaps you will understand. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-11-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-912.ana.u48	Senator Bencini is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-11-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-912.ana.u49	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, we knew that the question of trust in the budget law would be raised. This is not the first time, I think we are in fifth grade, but that is not the problem for me. The problem remains that, unfortunately, because of trust, we cannot discuss in this House amendments tabled to the Budget Commission and which have not been accepted. We would have had the opportunity here to discuss and discuss it again and, who knows, maybe to change something too. What I would like to stress, and what I would have liked to have changed in this budget law, is the issue of the social EPA. The Government has tabled an amendment agreed with the trade union parties, so up to now it has also done a good job, but leaving some points not well defined, which I hope will be so in the ministerial decrees in which it will be written more precisely what the heavy work is and who it refers to. In this sense I want to focus mainly on the category of nurses to which I belong: perhaps there is a conflict of interest, but it is still the interests of 400,000 people. It is established that that of the nurses is one of the heavy jobs that will be entitled to the social EPA, with the blocking of the adjustment of the retirement age, fixed today to sixty-six years and seven months, so the social EPA anticipates the pension to sixty-three years of age. In point (f) of the Annex A to the decree of the President of the Council of Ministers No 87 of 2017, among the work activities eligible for benefit, reference is made to the staff of the nursing and obstetric hospital professions with work organized in shifts, but without defining what is meant by shift, i.e. if it is about nights or if instead the shift is about seven working days. In fact, nurses work for seven days a week, so even Saturday, Sunday, Christmas and the last of the year are working days and therefore these people are also in turn. Another limitation included in the Government's amendment 21.0.1000 is the fact that at least seven of the last ten years of work must fall within the category of heavy work, which probably means that nurses respond to the need for shiftwork. What I have to say and to suggest further in this House - I have already done so on the agenda which has been accepted as a recommendation - is that, at the time when ministerial decrees are being made, it should be borne in mind what is the activity of a nurse, who must have thirty years of career access to the Social EPA, but who often does shifts, including nights, during the first twenty years of work, because then he is so worn out by having discombusted his life and his circadian rhythms for twenty years that, in the last ten years, he asks to be assigned to a department in which no shifts are made or in which at least there are no nights. Compared to the count of these seven years, I would therefore like for the category of nurses to be well defined in the ministerial decree that these be coated on the entire work path and not on the last ten working careers, because otherwise the audience would be really limited and probably almost none of the nurses could access the social EPA. Another point, which I would like to stress, is that the Government also includes personal assistance for people who are not self-sufficient: here too, however, it is not clear whether point (g) of the annex The same applies to staff who are now qualified as a social and health worker and who therefore do not belong to the famous category of caregivers. They are socio-health workers - although they are not considered health professionals, but technicians - who also work in the public environment and in public hospitals and devote themselves to the care of people. Also on this - when the time comes and any ministerial decrees will be issued - I would like the legislation to understand how it is actually possible to access the social EPA to be written clearly. That is what I wanted to say. As far as I can say about the budget law, I believe that there are certainly good things in this law. There are also answers to some of the amendments tabled by my colleagues, which may be a little too subjective and too univocal, in some way, and I have not very much shared that. But we must analyze everything, not the meticulousness and the peculiarities. So, by analysing everything, as my colleague Maurizio Romani said yesterday, the Italia dei Valori Group will vote in favour. We will therefore vote in favour of this last budget law of the 17th legislature. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator Endrizzi is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-11-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-912.ana.u50	Mr President, in this budget law, the government comes out in the open in defense of multinational gambling. It was not enough to renew without contest the concession of the scratcher and win in the decree-tax law. I would remind you that this renewal without competition runs counter to the principles of our rules on public contracts, contrary to the European competition rules, because without competition a concession is renewed, in fact monopolistic, when it was planned to be awarded to four different parties. By giving up a race, the government is responsible for possible erarial damage. But there is a greater value to be protected: transparency on a sensitive matter both in social and financial terms. We are talking about scratch cards, the harmless scratch cards and wins; they are gambling at low latency, that is to say with a high power to give addiction, because between the bet and the outcome they pass a few seconds and thus generate an alternation of emotional phases that succumb in the action to repeat. But do you know that scratch marks and wins are among the first charades practiced by the very young, eleven or twelve years old? They are offered to those who want to be billionaire, or tourist forever or to those who want to win home: but what messages are conveyed to young people? And then there are the elders: do you know how many pass out with scratch marks and wins? Does anyone in this House know that special machines for automatically scratching coupons have been put on the market? Each of you, if in real life you open your eyes, inside a store you can see these things. And on this social disaster there is a billionaire deal for Lottomatica, a company that has transferred its headquarters abroad but has been very generous with the Italian parties. All this was not enough; the Government in this budget law grants the encore and puts in the sights regional laws and municipal regulations, such as those of Turin and Rome, which prohibit the offer of chance near churches, schools, sensitive places. In fact, we know that easy accessibility, directly in places of life and aggregation, facilitates the early beginning of gambling: we find it under our noses everywhere. And to start early means to increase the risk of addiction and in medium more serious forms. The explosion of mass gambling has gone hand in hand with the wild liberalisation; and with this has increased the business also for the mafias. These rules contrast these phenomena, have proved to be effective in protecting the population and are therefore in favour of the concessionaires of the sector, despite protecting the citizens. Months ago the undersecretary Baretta contended that if we remove the chance from churches and schools, there is the risk that they form the islands of chance, the red-lighted neighborhoods. That's right. It is he himself, then, who approaches gambling to prostitution and degradation. So be consistent and admit it: at least close to schools, churches and places frequented by weak groups, gambling cannot be there. No, it is not: in the budget law, in Article 90, the Government states that the need to carry out the races for the new betting concessions (therefore, it is also written here that the races must be done), must first be contemplated with a correct distribution of gambling. Then what do you do? Extension of existing concessions and obliges the Regions to adapt their laws on the dislocation of points of chance, according to the agreement reached on 7 September in a unified conference. And how should the regions adapt their laws? That is not clear at all. Point 5 of the agreement provides for a safeguard clause on the prevention and containment of gambling, but referring to certain specific actions of law enforcement: the regions which have the most restrictive laws in this field will be able to maintain them. The others will also be able to take more effective measures if necessary. But - precisely - the clause is found in point 5; the minimum distances from schools, churches and sensitive places are treated, on the other hand, separately, in point 2, where no safeguards are provided. On the contrary, an absurd principle has been inserted: Regions and local authorities must take private investment into account in health protection and cannot, through urban laws and plans, determine areas free of risk. Inexplicable is the lightness in accepting this mess by Regions such as Puglia, but above all Veneto and Lombardy, which, while demanding greater autonomy with a referendum, put at risk what they already had. At that point, signed the agreement, everything depended on how the Government would implement the agreement itself in the ministerial decree announced by the end of October. Yes, because the 2016 budget law, that of two years ago, provided that the State-Regions agreement would be implemented by a ministerial decree, to be submitted to the opinion of the parliamentary committees: a Calvary, if the Minister had forced the text against the Regions, giving rise to a more restrictive interpretation; otherwise, respecting the regional laws, he would have exposed himself to actions by the lobby, which would have expected a different interpretation of that agreement. We were all in suspense to wait for this decree, but Baretta's true intentions were punctually outstretched, with bad satisfaction, immediately after the signing of the agreement: Now the regions will no longer be able to close the game points, but only decide where to place the planned points. And here, instead of the decree, comes the budget law; Article 90 clarifies definitively on which side the Government is: it confirms the veiled threats issued a few days ago to impute to the Regions an erarial damage if they did not weaken the anti-gambling rules. The erarial damage applies to the Regions and does not apply when a government awards a short manu billionaire contest. But why didn't the decree come? Because, precisely, it was between two fires and then for another aspect, much more concrete. The agreement signed on September 7 contained a long series of predictions, among which some certainly virtuous and unwelcome to the concessionaires; with this article, the government let the beautiful promises fall into the void and on the rest tries to dump the ball to the Regions. And, since the expiry of the concessions was due, he tried to separate himself from the skein he created: the conventions are not renewed until the Regions adapt, but in the meantime the dealers can continue to work undisturbed, paying an oboleum. After months and months of other proclamations, about wanting to protect health, about having understood the mistakes made in these long years, of continuous favors to the lobby, of continuous liberalization and expansion of a market that has reached 96 billion euros, after the beautiful statements about wanting to limit the advertising of the gamble that wanted to show us a sensitive government, here not only has fallen the mask, but has fallen the face of the government. The Undersecretary should take note of this and the Government, which has presented such a filthy rule in this bill, should do the same. [[Applause from the M5S Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-11-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-912.ana.u51	He's enlisted to speak Senator Azzollini. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-11-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-912.ana.u52	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I experienced a somewhat paradoxical situation during my part-session in the Budget Committee: the draft budget law before us was introduced by an update note which further distracted the so-called medium-term objective, which means in other words a greater deficit; it was marked by about 16 billion for the sterilization of safeguard clauses (in order not to increase VAT we had to commit all these resources) and, in the course of the debate, by a letter from the European Union which alerts us, pointing out that, during 2018, we will have problems - thus quantifying the European Union - for 3.5 billion euros. I am not talking about polemics, but official letters; which means that strict attention should have been exercised on this draft budget law, because the overall framework of public finance does not reverberate. On the other hand, what has been the subject of the debate and the amending work of the Budget Commission? To all measures of secondary importance in the order of one and a half billion euros, all or almost dedicated to current expenditure and always increasing current expenditure itself. This, despite having already been reported in the Document of economy and finance that the current expenditure had increased of 2,5 billion, from 164 billion of 2016 to 166,7 billion of 2017, magnitudes of which already taken into account in the European center. Against this, among the words that have been used for this draft budget law, there is a very bad one, colleagues and colleagues:'statistication'. I went to see on the "Devoto-Oli" - and I didn't believe it - and then I went to check also on the "Treccani" dictionary: statization is a little used word, desueta, which means statization. We have not given this understanding even the dignity of the common word and perhaps, in order to try surreptitiously to hide it, we have spoken of statiszation: that is, we have given new current, increasing and structural expenditure to the new budget, so stiffening it and laying the premises for those who will come after finding themselves an even worse state of public finance. Finally, having a few hundred million euros available (it doesn't seem so many, since for the financial framework - as I said before - there are problems that concern many billions of euros), the government had before it a choice: not to use additional resources to try to improve the budget or bet to use resources that have a function of improving the economy and, therefore, an indirect effect of improving public finances. No, the other surreal issue that we have experienced is the fragmentation of this already small budget of funds into so many small branches completely useless. Let me give you two examples. The superticket issue is worth a total of 60 million euros. This is the amount allocated by the government, which perhaps will last a few days for the superticket. It is, therefore, a totally ineffective measure. For the bonus baby issue - I use the journalistic term - that is for the help of families with lower incomes who make another child we allocate a budget of 25 million euros, that is 480 euros per year. I believe that for a child with 40 euros a month is provided for two or three days. Certainly not enough for a month. The government has not been able to make a choice: I give them to new births for families, to the killing of the superticket, or to other. Taken from the electoral needs, it has ginned this maneuver, making it so inefficient. So we have not fixed structural problems, which are already on the horizon, as the European Union tells us, and the resources that we had, we have not given any anti-cyclical direction and, therefore, are capable of helping development. We've done a crunchy thing. On the other hand, we have certainly increased public spending with a series of stabilizations, statizations or statizations, which we would like to say. Mr President, be careful because this means forgetting a concept which - in my opinion - is the only necessary re-introduction in Italy because it translates, in cultural terms, in this regard and, in economic terms, in productivity, which are the only two things that Italy needs. When general measures are taken, it does not have anything to do with the substance and, indeed, it is penalised. So this budget law deserves our vote against and we hope it will be the last not in the history of Italy, because there will be that of next year, but the last of this left-wing government. [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-11-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-912.ana.u53	On behalf of the Assembly I greet the students and students of the course of parliamentary law and constitutional law of the University of Milan. Guys, we're counting on you. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-11-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-912.ana.u54	I declare closed the debate on the question of trust posed by the Government. Senator Uras, whom I do not see in the Chamber, had been booked to speak in an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-11-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-912.ana.u55	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-11-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-912.ana.u56	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-11-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-912.ana.u57	Mr Quagliarello (FL-Id-PL, PLI)). Mr President, fellow senators, colleagues in the government, the budget law sets out the priorities of an Executive, a majority and a political force over the expenditure of its own country. The text we are debating here today does not deny this assumption. It is, in fact, the mirror of a government and a majority that no longer have a vision. I come to some questions of method, first of all. The examination in the budget committee took place in total chaos. To say the least, amendments have been mowed down with the trap of inadmissibility, and then these amendments have been fished, magically, from time to time that the proposals appeared to be functional to the needs of the majority. Groups were asked to report the most important amendments within a set deadline, but between out-of-term insertions and last minute replacements, at some times everything seemed to be watching except a reasoned debate on the country's economic policy. But the best was yet to come. The Commission's work has been taken hostage by the internal problems of the majority. And, at the same time, the solution to these problems has led to an indisputable advantage, like some parliamentary group which, under threat of losing its decisive vote, has been able to benefit from an à la carte budget law. Let's move on to the content. If we are to assess objectively, it cannot be said that there is no measure to be shared. In fact, of some positive aspects of this manoeuvre we could, without fear of denial, claim the merit. The problem is that even when the right direction was taken, we stopped halfway in the name of other very questionable priorities. If it were just a lack of courage, we could say that this is the financial maneuver of the "I wish" but I cannot. In fact, in some respects this budget law is the law of the "I don't want to, but I am obliged and therefore I limit myself to the minimum necessary". And this "necessary" is also insufficient. Any examples? The so-called baby bonus - I take the terminology from my colleague Azzollini - is halved and, from 2019, passes from 80 to 40 euros per month. Not even enough to cover diaper spending. Not to mention the amount allocated to the fund for the support of those who care for a severely disabled family member: EUR 7 to each of these citizens. Senator Bignami made this battle almost a mission of life, and we supported it. It seems clear to me that in this parliamentary term it will be impossible to increase that symbolic figure, but what can be done is to nail government and majority to their responsibilities, first and foremost to the voters. Speaking of responsibility, allow me to say a few words about the banks. Let me do this after two years of battles inside and outside Parliament; after forcing the Government, thanks to a motion promoted by Mr Augello and carried on with all the other political groups, to address the problem of savers who have been frauded so far excluded from the compensation measures; after having committed the Commission to work, through effective interdictive measures, to ensure that the administrators responsible for the disruptions do not continue to do damage in the future. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the unanimous approval of an agenda for these battles was a great success. We have waited patiently for the Government to keep its word in this Chamber and also confirmed by the Undersecretary Baretta on board the train during this most famous period of Italian politics. Thanks to the mediation of Minister Finocchiaro and President Tonini we managed to have our amendment readmitted and to ensure that it remained until the last one on the negotiating table. Finally, the rapporteurs redrafted a proposal, which was subsequently approved, but which was incomplete and insufficient from the point of view of the allocation. In fact, 25 million euros per year for three years are crumbs compared to the amount of savings lost by citizens who would be entitled to compensation. I must honestly say that undersecretary Baretta had the shame to admit it: it is only the beginning. However, in order for this beginning to have a follow-up, it is necessary that, as we have done so far, we continue to pose the problem at every institutional level, with every possible act and on every useful decision-making table. Looking back on what this budget law could have been and has not been, I would like to remind you - and here again I am proceeding for example - of the proposal to include the dry coupon also for commercial properties; a proposal shared and presented by various Groups that could represent, if well designed for the benefit of both the owner and the tenant, a tool to lighten the rental costs of the artisans of the shop and the shopkeepers. But even in this case it was not considered to be a measure worthy of entry into this text. This budget law could also have been an opportunity to reduce the tax burden that stifles citizens and businesses a little bit, to try to glimpse solutions - at least partial - for the pensions of young people, for the recognition of a minimum pension treatment for those who in life - often out of necessity - have devoted themselves entirely to the care of the family and the elderly. We could have drawn a groove for the present and especially for the future. On the other hand, it was thought that more than three million should be allocated to the Merano racetrack, and it was thought that public and private hospitals (the so-called IRCSS) could be exempted from spending review obligations, without considering that to make a welcome Christmas gift to some health care entrepreneur close to politics (or within politics) the health funds of the regions will be put into crisis, which will be forced to new cuts in services and services. It was also considered appropriate to spend more than three million on the creation of new park bodies, forgetting the situation of existing ones. And you could go on. By virtue of a unique concept of homogeneity with respect to the text, measures such as the derogation to the jobs act for the stewards hired by football clubs, derogations from the anti-mafia certification obligations imposed by the Code of Procurement, the thousand extensions, carnival demonstrations, shooting polygons, measures on amateur sports clubs, the new Italian Weather Agency, the national register of sports prosecutors, beekeeping in mountain areas, the UN Action Plan on Women, peace and security have been found. The list would still be long, but I am saving it for you, because it is clear from these brief considerations that the draft underlying this budget law: to grant to a few, possibly friends, to take away from so many. It is unique to note how far the drift of a government that should have represented the modern and reformist left of this country has gone back. But this, ladies and gentlemen, we will leave it to the voters soon, through the vote. I believe that today, despite these considerations, the majority will gain yet another confidence. I would advise you to treasure it, because it might happen that this confidence makes you even less sure that you have that of the Italians next spring. For all these reasons, Mr President, I declare the Federation Group's vote against the government's confidence in the budget law. Thank you, hoping that Senator Uras has arrived in the meantime. [[Applause from Senator Fucksia.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-11-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-912.ana.u58	Senator Uras has arrived, so we do not give him up for absence, but consider his delay justified.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-11-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-912.ana.u59	Mr President, I apologise because I was engaged in the Committee of Inquiry into the causes of the disaster of the Moby Prince ferry, where a very sensitive hearing was taking place. I was asking questions to the audition, which as we know was the owner of Navarma and therefore it was a matter of particular importance. I would like to reason only on one point, even very briefly, because it is not necessary to spend so much time explaining this concept. This is a maneuver of several billions, the majority of which are destined to exceed the safeguard clauses and closes five years that have begun in the name of the continuation of the Monti Government, which as everyone will know and can remember was an emergency government due to a financial and political crisis of particular importance, for which it is clear responsibility, both in financial and economic terms, and in terms of political management. That government, a government of emergency forced the Italians - in a situation in which the economy had collapsed and we were on the brink of the definitive financial abyss - starting in the first quarter of 2012 with a GDP decrease of 0.8 percent compared to the previous quarter. A very heavy situation, therefore, followed by an unclear electoral result: there has never been a homogeneous center-left in the government; there has never been a majority in the government of this country that has been expressed in a consistent way by the electorate. It was a majority that, from time to time, even changing its nature, took on an ever-emergency management of the problems we faced. The legislature closes with a completed work, which has led the country from the sign less to the sign more and which has allowed, for example, the overcoming of the safeguard clauses on VAT. VAT is an ignoble tax, because it is an indirect tax; it is on the product, it is therefore not proportionate to the social and economic condition of the citizen. It does not follow the criterion of progressiveness. It is one of those taxes on consumption, often on consumption for households and people who are not in a particularly advantageous position. Therefore, all indirect taxes are more unfair than direct taxes because they follow the criterion of proportionality, whereas indirect taxes do not do so and do not even follow the condition of need, therefore of the need for work, of life, of people. Having overcome that crisis and sterilized the safeguard rules is a great achievement that must be taken into account. That is why, with regard to the situation given, to the conditions exceeded, today the effort made by the Government, and in particular by the Minister of the Economy, to keep the accounts and bring them back to health deserves our vote in favour. I think that we deliver Italy in a condition less worse than the one in which we received it. [[Senator Endrizzi points out that he wants to intervene.]] Arrigoni (LN-Aut). I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. One moment, Senator Arrigoni.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-11-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-912.ana.u60	I'm asking you to talk about the order of business.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-11-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-912.ana.u61	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-11-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-912.ana.u62	ENDRIZZI (M5S). Mr President, there are three issues that emerge in these minutes. I would remind you of your statement on the admissibility of the amendments I had requested earlier on text A, before the question of trust was raised by the Government. Now, with respect to the government's maxi amendment, we have two further problems: the first is that the technical report did not arrive, the Budget Committee is convened at 5 p.m. and therefore, also with regard to the assessment of the eligibility of the parts of the legal and localistic amendment we do not yet have a response. We started the explanations of vote without having a legitimate text. I would like to say that there must also be your personal opinion on this text and, if necessary, the convening of the Committee on the Rules of Procedure. Moreover, the text presented by the Government, compared to what has been stated, is not entirely a substitute and corresponding to the text Outside the Budget Commission, but at least a significant change has been made with regard to socially useful work. The Budget Commission has yet to examine the text and we are already declaring the vote on a ghost text. I therefore ask you, Mr President, to interrupt the work and to stop the explanations of vote because they are based on data which are not of reality.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-11-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-912.ana.u63	Senator Arrigoni, if you want to intervene, you have the floor. Of course, Senator Lezzi, who has booked for an explanation of vote, will speak when she has requested her Parent Company, Senator Endrizzi.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-11-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-912.ana.u64	Mr President, I rise because, despite some changes, these will not change the negative opinion of the Group of the North Legacy. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Minister, I should like to begin by thanking, on behalf of my colleague Mr Comaroli, Mr Morando, the President of the Commission, Mr Tonini, whom I do not see, the rapporteurs and, above all, the Offices, for the work they have done at the many meetings of the Budget Commission, many of which - let's say - have been unproductive, since the majority, by abusing the sense of responsibility of the oppositions, has been very committed to negotiating amendments, often arguing within them. Emblematic was the last session, finished at 5 o'clock in the morning - that of the looting - during which dozens of marchettes were approved to burst. This is the last financial manoeuvre of the legislature and it is time for the budgets of the policies of this majority, increasingly torn apart by internal clashes. Things are not going well for our country, despite the favourable European and world context. We grow little and to a much lesser extent than other European countries. The gap between our unemployment and the EU average also increases. Our debt in September is at the star level, with 2,284 billion euros. We are in difficulty, as confirmed by the lean numbers of the draft budget law, amounting to 20.4 billion euros, three quarters of which are used to neutralize the safeguard clauses introduced by the Monti Government to avoid, but - I stress - only for 2018, a catastrophic increase in VAT. For the rest, there is little left: few new investments and few measures for growth, combating poverty and support for families. The maneuver is in deficit, since it is covered, for more than 50%, by 11 billion new debt. Things are not going well and the citizens know it well, beyond the fairy tales told by Gentiloni Silveri and Padoan. The 7.5 million Italians in a state of deprivation know this, of which 4.5 million are in absolute poverty. Italians know that they give up treatment, because they don't have the money for medicine and tests. The many precarious and unemployed, especially young people, who do not find work because more and more economic activities are closing down for the crisis, know this. The many Italians know this - over 120,000 a year, mostly young graduates - who do not see prospects in this country and prefer to emigrate abroad, perhaps to be waiters in London or Paris. Yes, this maneuver is negative and ineffective and does not solve the real problems of the country. First of all, refer many crucial issues to the House of Deputies, such as the reform of tax agencies for technical problems, but above all political ones. Send back important issues concerning territorial authorities, prolonging uncertainty for them. I am thinking of the ordinary regions and municipalities, which are increasingly in difficulty and, above all, the Provinces, increasingly on the verge of default for the irresponsible Delrio reform. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group]] You are still raising expenditure, stabilizing other staff in the public service, or giving incentives to rain without any meritorious criteria. Thus, while we spend $5 billion a year on illegal housing, there is little money left for pension interventions, support for the family and the swindled savers, as well as for the defence and security sector (our men in uniform do not even pay overtime). Avoid raising the pensionable age to less than 15,000 people belonging to weary categories, but - again because of the cursed Fornero law - since 2019 you have raised the old-age pension age to sixty-seven years and sentenced the majority of workers to work for another five months more. In short, you will go to enjoy the deserved rest ever older, after so many years of sweaty work, while the young stay at home because they do not find it. To Deputy Minister Morando - whom I do not see in the Chamber - who has provoked us in his reply, I reply that the League has tabled amendments - and how! - to crystallize the increase in the retirement age compared to the life expectancy for all, since it has always argued that the Fornero reform, with the sudden rise, has already incorporated the increases in the retirement age. We have also tabled amendments to extend safeguards. In short, proposals to create a flexible exit from work and mitigate the rigidity of Fornero were there: it was necessary to understand and interpret them, which the government, deaf, did not do. We would have destined for this money that the government instead prefers to spend on immigration, while Renzi, dear rapporteur Zanoni - who I do not see in the Chamber - who is in perennial election campaign, still promises the 80 euros for large families (and I remember that he does it since 2014): in front of the birth alarm you do nothing to fill the shortage of kindergartens on the territory and also cut the baby bonus half, previewing it no longer three years, but only annual, with 40 euros per month, while for every illegal we spend 38,25 euros per day. It is an insufficient measure, that of the baby bonus, which also clears the 100 million fund provided for family support measures. I mean, it's the classic three-card game. Then continue to mock the savers ruined by the cracks of the banks: to save the Mount of the Paschi of Siena, the bank of the Democratic Party, in the past you have put several billions of public money; for hundreds of thousands of swindled citizens instead limit you to set up a relief fund with only 50 million in two years, but with the mockery that the citizens who must prove to have been cheated with a sentence passed in court will have to pay lawyers and wait for years, to get - perhaps - a refreshment that could be ridiculous; and then many will give up. You have also ignored and betrayed the expectations of economic activities, especially of small and medium-sized enterprises. You have rejected the dry coupon for rentals of shops and studios; you have changed the rules of the game, postponing the entry into force of the corporate income tax (IRI). This will result in the failure to reduce the tax burden by EUR 2 billion, a huge damage for 250,000 companies that had already planned their activities for 2018. You have prevented the carry-over of losses for companies applying a new cash regime, a serious penalty for 2 million companies. You have then rejected the extension of the waste traceability control system (SISTRI), thus forcing companies to comply with the obligations of an obsolete and inefficient computer system for the traceability of waste from 1 January, with the high risk that they, already burdened with bureaucracy and taxes, incur heavy penalties. While the country is in enormous difficulty, I see many smiling faces among the majority of colleagues and also among someone who does pseudo-opposition: you are more so as far as you have brought home for yourself than for the common good. Content, many marchettes and few structural actions are in this maneuver. I dare not think about what would have happened if the web tax introduced had brought revenue as early as 2018: other than assault on diligence! I repeat that all this happens while you waste 5 billion a year to keep 200,000 illegals, so-called refugees, who do not run away from wars and make fun of us. Many of them are dealing drugs to our children, while others are dedicated to the trafficking of prostitutes: they are caught by our law enforcement forces and denounced, but instead of being expelled, as in a serious country should happen, they continue to roam the territory. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group.]] I shall start with the conclusions. At this point, no more time must be wasted to unplug this unreliable majority. On the other hand, the letter from Europe foreshadows the need, in the near future, for a corrective manoeuvre of three, four or perhaps five billion, because of the public accounts not in order, because of the responsibility of Renzi's policy, based not on structural interventions, but on bonuses and the increase in debt. You will leave a country with rubble, like those present in the earthquake zones of Central Italy, and with the chasms in the public accounts. This is your failing legacy. Few Italians will regret you in the next election and on that occasion most will send you home. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group]] For all these reasons, the League Group will vote against this lousy draft budget law. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group and Senator Fucksia. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-11-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-912.ana.u65	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-11-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-912.ana.u66	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-11-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-912.ana.u67	ENDRIZZI (M5S). Mr President, I would like to speak on the Rules of Procedure. I would like to point out a paradox. In our view, we are trampling on the Rules of Procedure and, for its part, postponing the convening of the Junta on a matter which I have raised and on which I have not even received an answer from you. Paradoxically, this happens at a time when it is proposed to bring amendments to the Senate Rules of Procedure to this House. A deadline has been set for the submission of amendments of twenty-four hours, with the Offices being exhausted for having had to work at night to accommodate the time required by the Government on the draft budget law. We still do not have the amendment approved by the Commission. The Commission, perhaps, is meeting at this time. I do not know yet whether the technical report has arrived, I do not know what eligibility judgment has been given by those parties. So, you see, Mr President, we can support what we want in here, but if we don't at least have respect for the rules, every word becomes empty too. I would like to make two requests, one of which was new, also representing the request of those who work with self-denial and want to have the time to do a precise and adequate job, not like what we saw last night, with a missing text of paragraphs, not like what we have seen on other occasions, with high numbers where the fate of so many people, companies and families is at stake. Well, a suspension of work in order to enable the budget Commission to complete its process and, after that, to assess the merits of these eligibilitys is the first request. The second is to re-evaluate the deadline for tabling amendments relating to the reform of the Senate's Rules of Procedure because it is not an ordinary law, but a parliamentary regulation that has a paraconstitutional rank. We are saying that it is the rules of engagement or loyal cooperation within this House. We cannot treat them as a decree-law imposed with forced times and a lack of mutual respect. I'm waiting for an answer, thank you.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-11-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-912.ana.u68	So the proposal for a reform of the Rules of Procedure was tabled last night - I say this in order to be known to all - and, by regulation, they must spend five days in order to be able to schedule it. That time limit will, of course, be respected. Furthermore, we cannot examine the amendments forty-eight hours before they are lodged, so we must play between these two terms: five days and forty-eight hours. I therefore set the deadline for Friday at 7 p.m. However, with regard to the time limits set for the amendments, when the parliamentary groups expressed difficulties, their requests have always been accepted and we have met the needs expressed. Of course, this brings with it problems for the Offices, but in any case, if there are or will be any such requests, the deadline for tabling amendments can be revised. From this point of view, it seems to me that all the rules on the reform of the Rules of Procedure are being respected, which, of course, is an important moment for the whole House and the Groups, for a reform that can really speed up and simplify the work of the Senate. This must be done in accordance with the deadlines laid down in the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-11-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-912.ana.u69	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-11-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-912.ana.u70	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-11-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-912.ana.u71	WAR (Art. 1-MDP). Mr President, Mr Morando reminded us of the three fundamental pillars of the maneuver: the sterilization of increases in VAT and excise duties, the strengthening of deductions for private investment, the decontribution for the employment of young people. According to the Deputy Minister, everyone's agreement would even exist on this plant. However, the Vice Minister's irony is totally out of place. The three pillars you are talking about are actually linked and I will say something about each of them. It is true that three quarters of the maneuver is necessary to neutralize increases in VAT and excise duties, decided to a very large extent by the budget law for 2015, i.e. with the first Renzi Government, to finance especially contribution measures and, in part, support for investments not covered at the time. That is, it was a reservation of resources from the future budget laws, of which today we pay the bill and will pay it in the years to come the next Governments, because they remain more than 12 billion for 2019 and between 19 and 20 billion in the following years. Now sterilizing the so-called safeguard clauses is a fact, a fact due, but it does not make the manoeuvre expansive, unlike what has been claimed in this House. It just means she's not very depressed. A result also this, but certainly very unexciting. It was all right if we had the expected effects of the deficit-funded measures, but that was not the case, neither with regard to investment nor with regard to labour. I would therefore like to focus on investments, which are the problem, which remain dramatically below pre-crisis levels in Italy. We're down 28 percent. Something has been done, it is being proposed in the private sector, but the subject that we have been putting forward for some time now is public investment. Now, the word public investment in the reply of Deputy Minister Morando is not mentioned. In fact, public investment increased from 54 billion in 2009 to 36 billion in 2016, with a decrease of 35%. They are currently just over 2% of GDP, just over what is strictly necessary for depreciation of existing structures. And so we didn't even use the flexibility space we asked for for for investment, because in 2016 they dropped by 4.5%, with a crash in healthcare housing equal to 18 percent. We also know from international observers, from the International Monetary Fund to name one, that public investment has a multiplier of more than 2; this means an impact on the possible very strong economic growth, while the instruments we use with full hands, i.e. transfers and tax cuts, have an impact of only 0.7% to 0.8%. Our vision is therefore radically different. Public investment drags private investment; think of investments in infrastructure, research and development, utilities, protection of the territory. The failure to secure the territory not only has the effect of losing a significant development also from the point of view of its connotation in favor of the environment, but I remember that it exposes to landslides, avalanches and floods that offend life, health, confidence in the future, putting at risk the social cohesion of the territories and citizenship. That is why we have made significant proposals for relaunching public investment, with an extremely wide-ranging environmental plan through the complete rewriting, for example, of Article 95, with an amendment that I do not think could have escaped the attention of Deputy Minister Morando who has expressed a strong negative opinion. As far as private investment is concerned, in our view, we must also bear in mind another issue. We are willing to give them facilities, but they must create obligations towards the community, not only for investment but also for other areas. That is why, for example, we have proposed an amendment concerning relocations, which provides for the return of the facilities enjoyed by companies if they, after a few years, move their headquarters elsewhere. This amendment, however, has also been rejected. Instead, we have seen incentives, such as the decrease in IRES on the profits of large companies, which has no return, not even from the economic point of view: it is limited to increasing the profits of large companies, while, instead, small companies in the budget law are surprised, that is to say, the entry into force of the IRI by a year, at a cost that is close to EUR 2 billion. It is a small discrimination against small businesses. Let's talk about work now and here the notes are very painful. We are always reminded - it has also been done in this House - of the 900,000 jobs created by the decontributions, not by the jobs act, which has nothing to do with it, thanks to which we have recovered - and it is true - the number of jobs lost in the crisis. They are, however, half-time, part-time jobs. If we do not reason in terms of heads, the number of workers, but of AWU, that is equivalent full-time work unit - so let's calculate two part-times half-time as a worker - then we see that the comparison with 2008 is merciless and says the ISTAT and not Maria Cecilia Guerra: we are below more than 1 million jobs full-time equivalent. This means that the way to support the work has not been and is not the right one: we have impoverished the work. There have only been some amendments that we have tabled, but that obviously either Deputy Minister Morando did not see or did not want to read, but to which he certainly gave a negative opinion. We have noticed, for example, that 90% of recruitment is on time contracts in the last year. Even today, ISTAT tells us that in the last month, permanent contracts have been zero and all the increase has been represented by time contracts, in term contracts. That is why we have asked for action on this phenomenon by reintroducing the causals: nothing to do. As for part-time, it is estimated that 2.6 million part-times are involuntary, but are often also fake. We asked for more rigour in the control of fake part-time and we were told no. Since we also consider the issue of the work of young people to be fundamental, we wanted to introduce sanctions for false internships, those which do not have training content and which are used to replace workers in sickness or maternity, and we have been told no. Even in the field of incentives for work we have asked that, at the time of giving incentives, we then ask for responsibilities, so, if you have enjoyed three years of decontribution, you cannot the day after dismissing the worker without penalties: we have been answered no. The subject is very serious because there are really serious things that make us understand the dramatic state of the workers. I just remember that yesterday, with a text from the FCA, Cassino's former Fiat, 530 temporary employees were fired; I repeat, with a text. The amendments that Mr Morando has not seen are ours, but the ones he has seen are not so good for work and I remember two. As far as sport is concerned, a derogation has even been introduced from intermittent work. It is not enough to have 18,000 types of contract, no; those that there are, in the case of sport, must have some derogations in order to make their use even easier and less protected. Already the maneuver, moreover, for sports companies is for profit: it provides not only unmotivated tax concessions, since they are companies that make profits, but also provides that, up to 10,000 euros, they can assume without taxes and, above all, without contributions. We had tabled a deleterious amendment to these things that we consider indecent, but Deputy Minister Morando did not see them or, if he saw them, gave a negative judgment. I move quickly to some other points: one concerns bonuses. This maneuver is also a bonus heart attack. Why aren't we good with bonuses? Because they are commercials, from many points of view: in the effects, they are fragmented in the audience, they are temporary, they do not intervene structurally on the problems. I'll give you an example of the baby bonus. The problem with the baby bonus is not having or not having 40 or 80 euros a month, which is also something that can also be pleasurable. If we have a woman who resigns by maternity (last year the voluntary resignation was determined 75% precisely by motherhood) and wants to return to the workplace, but instead of thirty years is thirty-one, she will find herself in competition with the younger males of her who will have the decontribution. This is against motherhood. If you do not do kindergartens and do not approve the amendments of others, who supported childcare, this is against motherhood. If a worker at Ikea tries to beg that working times be adapted because she is alone and has two children, one of whom is disabled, and is fired this is against motherhood: anything but bonus baby. [[Applause from the Groups Art.1-MDP and Mixed-SI-SEL]] You then advertised last year, but they were advertising ads, with so much excitement, after us. This year the fund of after us has been cut by five million euros. But will this happen for caregivers too? It has already happened for the inclusion of disabled people. Warning: they are commercials and last the space of a moment. You have also translated the superticket into commercials, which is our proposal for a long time. This figure, which you have introduced, will be given to the Regions to do with it something not yet well defined. You have not understood that the problem here is not to give some money (which is always useful) to the poorest; the poorest already access the health service. The problem is that that health service must be universal; and if we continue, through the superticket, to kick out of the health service not the poor, but the middle classes, that service there, which remains only for the poor, dequalifies itself. There will be waiting lists, because there will not be the entire Italian population to defend it. [[Applause from the Groups Art.1-MDP and Mixed-SI-SEL]] You just didn't understand that. You have made it an element of electoral bargaining, as with many other things. Some of these have not passed, fortunately, such as the amendment of the ALA Group that re-introduced a derogation to the building pardon (obviously ad personam), while instead it passed an authentic interpretation on the regasifiers that makes really suspicious. You said no to a billion other proposals. I mention only a few because time has expired: the ninth safeguard from the money of previous safeguards; maternity, rightly introduced for athletes but not, for example, for coaches: but why? You have not taken into account a fair observation: we cannot calculate the hard work of farm workers with reference to the year as they work in days. All reasonable things. But they were ours; they were of Article 1-MDP and of Italian Left along with us and you did not accept them. You have not dealt with the subject of the social allowance, which is a welfare measure and cannot be linked to the contributory age, as well as to the female option, which we have strongly proposed. Then, the tips arrived and then the milleproroghe and on that you only gave reason to those who have "saints in Paradise," that is to say to those who have a strong MP of the majority. So, only some territories have enjoyed something, randomly. And how many MPs have just come to guard their tip? For the milleproroghe, then, you have disinterested yourself with an important theme that concerns twenty thousand coachmen and rubberists who, for a missed extension, risk not being able to exercise their profession from 5 January 2018, just because the regions in which they live have been unfulfilled in doing the necessary training courses. I close by saying that for all these reasons concerning the plant - Deputy Minister Morando who is not there - of the original maneuver, the method and the merit of the amendments, what is in the maneuver and especially what is not, the Group Article 1-MDP will vote against the confidence required by the Government. [[Applause from the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and ……]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-11-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-912.ana.u72	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-11-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-912.ana.u73	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-11-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-912.ana.u74	Mr Barani (ALA). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Parliament is certainly the most appropriate place, at least as far as institutional activities are concerned, to debate, confront and express values and convictions, including ideological ones. The role of Chamber and Senate does not end, however, certainly with this: values and convictions are, in fact, then translated into norms and what remains at the end of our legislative activity are, therefore, the facts and certainly not the words of which the Reports of our Senate are full. I say this because there are those who, in this House, revealing their ideas, beliefs and legitimate priorities, even in the name of their own Group, have limited themselves to snogging a whole series of names and acronyms of companies in employment crisis, after having voted openly against those amending proposals in support of a generational shift in the world of work and in favour of some well-defined social security processes. And to think that I thought these were left-wing issues! Well, in the course of the work in the Budget Committee, the only amendments in the direction that have just been put forward were those of my Group, one of which was welcomed with great joy - and we are, of course, legitimately proud of it as a right amendment - but also with great astonishment at the fact that we have recorded the opposite vote of those who have shown that they have only kept to their work in words. By increasing the minimum retirement age, not already for specific companies or sectors, but for all private companies with more than fifteen employees, we have achieved a huge success with a view to a generational job replacement; all this without the State having to invest a single euro, because the costs of this measure are totally borne by the companies. This has certainly been a significant difference between those who are concerned exclusively with chatter and comedy and those who, while exalting, as has already been pointed out, the importance and significance of the debate in the parliamentary classrooms, then do everything to move from words to deeds. Translated: chatter is zero, because what matters is the facts and it is undeniable the exceptional result obtained with the approval of the amendment in question at our signature, which will create, in the next three years, about 10,000 new jobs for young people. We then tabled another amendment which, on the other hand, was not approved, because of the shortsighted vision of Minister Poletti and Minister Lorenzin, who dismissed it as an early retirement of doctors, when early retirement was not; it was an attempt to prevent the post-pensioning of doctors who no longer make doctors. There are, in fact, about 2,000 doctors in Italy ambushed in administrative activities, who have been out of role for more than three years, who have infirmities such as to no longer be present in their duties and in their work shifts and who, therefore, lead others to stress due to work overload, causing malasanity. We had to encourage these 2,000 doctors to retire at sixty-five years of age and after forty-one years of work, to allow new young doctors to be included to break down waiting lists, to make departments work and, therefore, to reduce the risks of malasanity. Of course, Mr Poletti has not been able to understand this proposal of ours and we believe that he has made a mistake; that does not mean that we have done it. However, a great result we managed to bring home. Turning instead to the substance of the text submitted by the Government for consideration by the Commission, it must be said that it already contained growth-oriented measures and I believe that on the whole a good job has been done to improve it further, even with the more than 150 amendments approved, by both the Commissioners and the Government, as well as by Deputy Minister Morando, whom we obviously recognize the work carried out. There are incentives for work, interventions in favour of the family and the weakest sections of society, with an increase in funds for the fight against poverty. Having succeeded in introducing these measures of great impact, especially from the social point of view, without increasing VAT or introducing new taxes, is certainly a first important achievement which should be recognised by the Commission. In fact, a tax has been introduced: the web tax. We have taxed those foreign capitals and magnates who earn billions in Italy. We are among the first in Europe to tell them that what they take away from Italian soil must be taxed at 6%. I think we did a great job, which no one had done before. This is all the more satisfactory, bearing in mind that at the same time some of the measures in favour of the Mezzogiorno that have been necessary for a long time have been put in place, although there is still much to be done in this respect. There is also the right space for the package for companies in the areas of depreciation and public investment, especially with regard to local authorities with the increased margins of expenditure guaranteed to the municipalities, which will thus also be able to commit themselves to the redevelopment of the outskirts. All this was also able to reconfirm the ecobonus. As for what was introduced to the Senate, our contribution was indispensable in order to remedy what are, in our opinion, some forgetfulness of the Government, which we have healed proposing targeted interventions in sectors initially completely ignored in this draft budget law and not only. One of all is the case Ischia that, if it had not been for our interest and for our bell tower senators, would have risked becoming a territory of series B compared to all the other areas of Italy affected by natural disasters, from earthquakes to fires, passing through floods, in recent years. It has been a long and constant work that has produced its first fruits already with the decree-tax law, recently dismissed by the Senate and that today will be fired by the House, where the vote on the trust placed by the Government is taking place at this moment. In that measure, in fact, additional funding was allocated to support the populations and bodies of the territories affected by extraordinary natural events and scandalously nothing was expected for the reconstruction and relaunch of Ischia. Even worse, and I say this with sincere regret, to the distraction of the Government in that circumstance had been added that of all the other senators, having been those of the ALA Group not only the rules approved for Ischia, but even the only ones submitted to the tax decree. After the establishment of an ad hoc fund for reconstruction, tax and tax relief, the suspension of the IMU and the measures aimed at the economic recovery of an island with a tourist vocation almost exclusively included in the previous measure, with this draft budget law on this issue we have closed the circle, approving the suspension of the payment of the installments of the loans on both the municipalities and the private ones. Sorry if we had to interrupt the work of the Budget Committee for two hours, but it was worth it. It is a success that we are proud of and of which the whole of this House should welcome, because we have healed what was likely to be an unjustified but above all unjustifiable social injustice. I also saw that this amendment was voted unanimously by the Commission, but because we were there to allow you to approve it. We have then imagined other important forecasts, such as the interventions in support of the authorities of the basin from North to South of the Peninsula, in order to reduce the strong hydrogeological risk we suffer. However, our commitment has also focused on specific issues that have long need of concrete answers, such as the contractual discipline of stewards at the stadiums, with respect to which we have determined a significant step forward, considering that at present there is a situation that does not guarantee neither workers nor sports clubs. We acknowledge that Senator Falanga had made sure that this amendment was tabled and adopted. In this regard, we have also recognised the establishment of a specific register of sports prosecutors, officially defining in this way a professional figure that so far did not enjoy a specific regulatory framework. However, in the light of what has been said, I feel that I can say with certainty, while this troubled parliamentary term is coming to an end, that we have made a decisive contribution to this draft budget law, even by intervening in paragraph 686: on this too it took two hours to stop the work of the Senate Budget Committee. It is the financing of 160 million of the Quadrilateral of Marche and Umbria. So, from now on, when the completion is completed, this will be due to the two-hour stoppage that allowed its funding: another amendment that was adopted unanimously, but only because we allowed you to vote on it. Recognize that it had to be done, but you voted for it only because we gave you the chance and the ticket you could take off so that we could say that we are doing this big surgery to unite the two seas. We owe that to our Group, too. I shall end - and, if the President so permits, I would ask you to hand over the rest of my speech so that it is annexed to the Report - by saying that, given that it is a law that will be remembered in the future for the decisive contribution of ALA to its approval and which will bear great fruit for the recovery, our Group will vote firmly in favour of it. [[Applause from the ALA Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-11-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-912.ana.u75	The Presidency authorizes you to hand over the remainder of your speech so that it is annexed to today's report.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-11-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-912.ana.u76	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-11-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-912.ana.u77	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-11-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-912.ana.u78	ZELLER (Aut (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT)-PSI-MAIE). Mr President, the Autonomy Group has supported the Led, Renzi and Silveri Governments in this parliamentary term. We have done so on the basis of a political and programmatic pact whose results have also been important for the country through a constant and fundamental action of sustainable political reforms of consolidation and the stabilization of the public accounts. Italy - of this it must be acknowledged - grows as never for ten years, also thanks to these reforms made in recent years and, in particular, those of the Renzi Government, jobs act in the first place. There has also been a targeted and prudent fiscal policy such as super depreciation and the extension of energy bonuses for restructuring. Italy is on the right track, although much still needs to be done to eliminate the gap that we have with the European average in terms of GDP growth. We are aware that this is not an easy objective, especially because of the enormous public debt accumulated which weighs like a boulder on the real economy and on the resources of public finance. That is why the reforms and progress made in recent years are commendable. Italy's starting point and political conditions are, in fact, much more difficult than other European countries. For us representatives of the Special Autonomies now closes a particularly positive season after the dark years of the Monti Government, which had undermined the foundation and foundation of the autonomy itself. In these four years, however, we have restored so many things that were put in perhaps at the time, changing the Statute of Trentino-Alto Adige/Südtirol four times, once with the ordinary procedure (ex Article 138) for the Law on the Ladins, whose process ended a short time ago and three times with the accelerated procedure, i.e. with the so-called covenant law, pursuant to Article 104 of the Statute. This route is practically also designed for the negotiations of Veneto and Lombardy; the same model should work for them too. Never in history, since 1948, has it happened that our Statute has been modified four times in a legislature thus adapting it to the new requirements, for this reason our special thanks go to the Government and the majority that supported and supports it. With the 2014 law of stability we have obtained the primary competence for local taxes and local finance. This allowed the provincial legislator to replace the IMU with the provincial property tax, a system, in our opinion, much fairer than the one in force in the rest of the country because it does not provide the total exemption on the first house and, therefore, also of the villas or luxury apartments, but only for the first 100 square meters (while on the rest you pay). This avoids a reverse progression that saves more money to those who are richer. With the increased revenue from this partial exemption on the first house we lowered the tax on sheds and hotels, thus favouring the production sector and services. I think that this is also why growth in our Provinces is above the national average. We are proud of this measure and also of the confidence that the National Parliament and the Government have given us, because we believe that we have introduced a virtuous rule that is generally accepted by citizens and much appreciated by companies, even if this time there is a reverse treatment: while at national level you do not pay for the first house, in the Province of Bolzano you pay for the first house if it has more than 100 square meters. A further important amendment to the Statute concerns the financial agreement introduced by the 2015 Stability Act: the so-called Security Pact. This too must be said once and for all in this House: this is an agreement with which we have accepted virtually all the cuts made by previous governments, pouring almost EUR 500 million each Province into the state coffers. In return, we have been assured that there will be no further cuts and that we can make serious planning of the work and of our budget. It can therefore be said that it is not true that the Provinces of Trento and Bolzano have a much lower tax residue than in Lombardy. The Autonomous Province of Bolzano, for example, is more or less at the level of Lazio: over 2,000 euros per inhabitant must be paid to the state's coffers, in addition to the costs of public services in this Province. So it is not true that we live on the shoulders of others; if anything, the opposite is a bit true. This Budget Act also gives the Autonomous Provinces of Trento and Bolzano another amendment of the Statute on primary competence over hydroelectric concessions. From 1 January 2018 the Provinces will be able to regulate the provincial colleges, the criteria and the rules for the allocation of these concessions for the great derivations of water for hydropower purposes (one of the greater resources of our Provinces). This will determine the completion of the provincial powers in the field of energy, begun in 2000 with the delegation, at the time made by the Government of Alema, of the administrative functions in the within of the hydroelectric concessions. There are therefore no higher charges for public finance, because the entire revenue from concession fees is already the responsibility of the two Provinces today. In addition, we have been able to unlock the delivery of variable quotas due for many years, but never paid to the two Provinces, which allows a full and effective policy for the 2018-2019 budgets. We then made about twenty implementing rules in different sectors and public contracts and assumed all the expenses for the administrative judiciary and the ordinary judiciary in the Province; except for the judges, all the administrative staff today is borne by the two Provinces. We therefore wish to thank the Government also for having accepted the agenda of Senator Laniece, committing ourselves to resolve, in the passage that will take place in the Chamber of Deputies, the financial question concerning the Valle d'Aosta and the finding of the resources necessary to overcome the litigation with the State, in the light of the decision of the Constitutional Court favorable to the Valle d'Aosta Region, thus allowing the Region to face its financial resources with the necessary resources. In conclusion, allow me, ladies and gentlemen, to make a point. If the Spanish Government had had even 10% of the sensitivity of the Italian Government, perhaps the Catalan question would not be raised today. In particular, we would like to thank Deputy Minister Morando but also Minister Finocchiaro for their particular sensitivity to us, their calmness and their extraordinary technical capacity to resolve the various issues that emerged as the work progressed, but also for their respect for the work of individual Members, examining one by one the many amendments both by majority and by opposition. We also thank President Giorgio Tonini for his skill and for his balance in conducting the difficult work in the Budget Committee, and the two rapporteurs, Mr Zanoni and Mr Gualdani, who have helped to create a very positive and constructive climate for the work in the Commission. For these reasons, the Group for Autonomies-PSI-MAIE will vote in favour of the government's confidence. [[Applause from the Aut Group (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT) - PSI-MAIE and Senator Puppato]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-11-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-912.ana.u79	Senator Vicari had been booked to speak, but she is not present in the Chamber.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-11-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-912.ana.u80	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-11-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-912.ana.u81	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-11-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-912.ana.u82	DE PETRIS (Misto-SI-SEL). Mr President, we have come to the last budgetary manoeuvre of this parliamentary term, and of course, trust and all the attachments and all the related ones could not be lacking. Apart from that, I think it is time, of course, as far as we are concerned, to do a little bit of the budget for these five years. I do, Mr President, especially because today I have heard, once again, enthusiastic data and claims of success, but - alas - we obviously do not read the same data and - as is normal - we do not do the same analysis. I will quickly try to explain again the reasons why we believe that the approach to this and all those previous manoeuvres is totally wrong. We have done calculations and, above all, over the last four years, we have had an approach that has been characterised essentially in almost all the budgetary maneuvers for a kind of bonus policy on the one hand and incentives on the other, always with the characteristic of being not finalized but in rain. Only bonuses we have calculated in recent years an amount of 62 billion euros. This is the great point of diversity and on this is our dissent, so we think this absolutely wrong approach and this maneuver - which is still its daughter, represents a sort of Bignami - structurally wrong. It is clear to everyone that what has been lacking in recent years has not been just the ability to make choices. When I talk about this mass of 62 billion euros, it means that instead of dispersing these resources through the thousand streams of bonuses and rain incentives, it would have been necessary and could have been much more productive instead to concentrate these 62 billion euros in investment plans that are the real point of serious shortage of all these years. Even at the beginning, even before seeing a small economic recovery, even in those limited margins of flexibility, it was absolutely necessary to concentrate, in order to consolidate a possibility of exit from the crisis, on a serious and appropriate level - because it is the real point on which it is possible to operate, in our opinion, of public investments; that could really allow in some way to promote employment and to support important small and medium-sized works, investing in the territory, in building renovations, in the cure against hydrogeological failure, in public transport; an investment plan that, as is done in serious countries, could really allow itself to be shaken and to emerge from the crisis. This is what happened in the United States and in many other countries. Here the choices were different. When Deputy Minister Morando comes today to claim the three axes on which this maneuver has been centered - among other things by saying falsehood, that is that no one has presented alternative plans, and but on this point I will return - confirms this approach that we feel absolutely wrong. Now you are showing a small growth in GDP - and that is true - but it is clear to everyone that this is due more than to internal factors, to exogenous factors; everyone knows that, just see the macroeconomic analyses. It is clear that this small recovery, this advance, is mainly linked to the low cost of money and raw materials. Taking advantage of this more favourable contingency then meant investing to consolidate and put the fundamental axes of this economic recovery; because the resumé, as it came from exogenous factors, can go back. Another claim you continue to make: continue to boast that the policy of decontribution and incentives you have applied has favoured, through so-called structural reforms such as jobs act, the creation of a million jobs; however, these jobs concern small jobs, fixed-term, often absolutely dequalified, and that is not what the country needs, because you have stubbornly decided not to face the real problem in all these years, that of combating inequalities. The maneuver under consideration is a bit the Bignami of all this and today again most of the draft budget law concerns the sterilization of VAT. In addition, continue stubbornly to think that through the decontribution mechanism, this time for young people, youth employment can be promoted, but this will not happen, it will once again be a very vague and unconfirmed thing. Instead continue with the bonus policy, with the difference that this time are minibonus: we find the minibonus baby (on which I will return), the mini elimination of the superticket, the crumbs for the search. This time it's all mini. The maneuver then carries a list of tips. You say that no one has submitted alternative proposals; I tell Deputy Minister Morando that he has arrived. Obviously the Minister was too busy seeing the amendments to distribute tips, to favour the new coalitions and to consolidate and have the confidence votes to look closely at the proposals we have tabled. I think it will now be the third or fourth year that we are presenting an alternative proposal: we are proposing a GDP point for an investment plan, a work plan. Mr Morando, Deputy Minister for Economic Affairs and Finance. In fact, I didn't talk about you. DE PETRIS (Misto-SI-SEL). I am referring to investments in environmental and social sustainability, with the aim of relaunching public investment in land maintenance and security, public transport and quality of life. On the other hand, you have stubbornly refused to take into account not only the more general proposal of the Investment Plan, but also the even more detailed proposals concerning a different articulation of Article 95 and a very precise set of proposals on health. We have tabled a serious proposal for the elimination of supertickets and a serious proposal on the problem of birth, because we have come up with appropriate proposals concerning, for example, support for the work of women and we have made significant proposals regarding kindergartens and children's school. Because it's not enough to have four crumbs to support babies, when then there's nothing for childhood school, for work. The real reason for women who do not have children is that young people think they can start a family at 40, because there is a dramatic problem with the work of young people. Instead, none of this has been addressed, except the minibonus baby, a "brushed" to reduce the ticket, with the risk that, among other things, with that mechanism will also increase inequalities between regions. That's the point. On pensions, we have made a clear proposal to freeze the adjustment until 30 June to give a way of thinking; we have presented detailed ideas for the different categories of work. These are the questions, but you categorically did not consider them, because the serious thing is that by now you are ideologically convinced that you only have to give incentives to rain to the enterprise without asking the bill. Because it's only to those who, after three years, ran out of incentives, fired, asked for the money back. It's everyone's money, it's all citizens' money. Instead, you have concentrated, still, stubbornly, on this system, which - I repeat - will not lead to anything. So, you have little to boast about the results, because it's all fictitious. However, we continue to be a taillight in Europe as far as growth is concerned and to have the record of young people who do not study or work (almost 20%). These are the problems. Do we have the problem of poverty and do you think, with these small measures, that you are able to deal with the tragedy of 4.5 million people in poverty? These are all issues that you did not want to address, all of which were obviously taken, even in the presence of a few resources, to distribute them for other purposes. Not to mention the proposal that we have put forward to allocate a point of GDP to investments for environmental and social sustainability and for work. This is a country that needs investment on the territory, we cannot continue to pay only and only for emergencies, with everything that has happened (the floods, the earthquakes). We need to make a giant plan. Instead, you still do not want to make the ecobonus measure structural, you go to reduce energy efficiency interventions and what have you presented to us from an environmental point of view? You have provided the IMU exemption for regasifiers! That would be the environmental plan. This would be the decarbonisation strategy you have put in place: to subscribe for millions and millions of euros to foreign capital as well. And you have also tried - I see Senator Santini present - to extend it to oil platforms! This would be your plan to get out of fossils. That would be environmental sustainability. We reject this manoeuvre completely, because it is untenable from the social and environmental point of view, for the rest, I repeat, we are talking only about micro-interventions. Do you brag about the research? The crumbs you've been looking for. All investments for the future of young people, for work and for the environmental and social future of this country have been rejected. The only goal, of which you also come to boast, is the set of tips - I say it politely, even if you could use stronger words - that, never like this time, have been lined up in a budget maneuver. I understand that we are at the final balances, I understand that we are on the run, but I believe that we must at least maintain a little dignity, especially for the future of this country. For all these reasons, Mr President, I declare the vote against the Italian Left component - Left Ecology Freedom of the Mixed Group. [[Applause from the Misso-SI-SEL Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-11-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-912.ana.u83	I give the floor to the President of the Budget Committee, Senator Tonini, to report to the Assembly on the financial coverage profiles of amendment 1,700.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-11-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-912.ana.u84	Mr President, the Budget Committee has met, as has already been established, in order to verify the coverage profiles of the maxi amendment and its correspondence to the text approved by the 5th Commission in the referent. As regards the first aspect, i.e. the cover profiles, of course the reference text is first and foremost the technical report, which is positively verified and boiled down by the General Accountant of the State. At the bottom of the signature of the Accountant is the following note: The technical report shall be verified positively, with the exception of the following subparagraphs: paragraphs 107 to 110, as it entails higher uncompensation costs, underestimated in the text's forecast and of a growing structural nature; paragraph 144, as it entails higher uncompensation costs of a structural and increasing nature. The 5th Commission therefore recommends to the Government to fulfil this condition laid down by the General Accountant of the State and to expunge these paragraphs from the text. Since these paragraphs concern a socially sensitive subject, that is to say the subject of workers who have long been exposed to the negative, sometimes fatal, effects of asbestos, the Commission recommends that the Government, which of course must now put them out, take the matter back to the House. Obviously, then, it will be the Chamber of Deputies who will decide in full autonomy, but I believe that the Senate can recommend to the Government that the matter be referred back to the House, of course to correct the cover profiles but to keep high attention on this category of workers particularly affected by the events of life and work. On the other hand, from the point of view of matching the text of the maxi amendment to the text approved by the 5th Commission, we have only found two inconsistencies, let us say, two non-matches. The first is paragraph 316, which corresponds to paragraph 3 of amendment 49.0.8 (text 2) approved by the 5th Commission. A line that excludes a few words from the text is clearly skipped. To explain, I try to read the current text, which reads: In order to allow the District Basin Authority of the Po River, it is clear that there is something that does not work also from the linguistic point of view. On the other hand, the correct text, as approved by the 5th Commission, is as follows: In order to allow the National Basin Authority of the rivers Liri Garigliano and Volturno, the District Authority of the South Apennines and the Po River and then continues in the same way. The other inconsistencies, on the other hand, concern paragraph 344 which corresponds to paragraph 2 of amendment 54.0.33 (text 3). We are on the subject of measures for the LSU of the school in Palermo. Paragraph 2 has been reworded here, which, in the text approved by the Commission, indeed, perhaps with an excess of generality, said: With a special notice to be published within 60 days and, by our limit, obviously, it has not been defined by those who are to be published the notice. The paragraph is reworded in the maxi amendment with the diction: By decree of the Minister for Education of the University and Research, with the consent of the Minister for Simplification and Public Administration and the Minister for Economic Affairs and Finance, it is called a special notice. The Commission suggests, in turn, to the Government that perhaps it would be more appropriate to say "Ministry of Justice," since this is an act that may perhaps be of a managerial nature. However, we return to the Government to solve this problem, which is obviously related to the final definition of a text, which is clear in its intentions. I should like to conclude, Mr President, by thanking all those who have worked in the Budget Committee in this marathon. It has already been done by the rapporteurs today, so I do not repeat myself. I would like to concentrate on thanking the staff of the 5th Commission. [[Applause]] starting with Dr. Piccardi and then all the other officials and collaborators, to whom we have really asked for an extraordinary effort to which they have fulfilled with the usual dedication and professionalism. [[Applause from Senators Fucksia and Sangalli]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-11-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-912.ana.u85	He asked the Deputy Minister for Economic Affairs and Finance to intervene. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-11-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-912.ana.u86	Mr President, the Government agrees to expunge from the text the paragraphs, to which President Tonini referred, from 107 to 110 and paragraph 144. It undertakes at the same time to promote the approval of this text, as regards the provisions contained in these paragraphs, by ensuring a regular coverage, which they do not currently have. Secondly, the Government certainly recognizes that paragraph 316 of the text approved in the Commission does not correspond to the text which we had no intention of complying with, and the text as it was in text A and, consequently, in the text of the Government. For this reason, the Government accepts to integrate the text as President Tonini implicitly suggested, as well as paragraph 344 accepts the reference to the Ministry in all three cases and not to the Minister. I would say that these are the comments that have been made, that the Government accepts. Finally, Mr President, if you are so kind as to follow me for a moment, it would be a matter of removing from the text a veritable refutation. In paragraph 206, unlike for all other paragraphs of similar content, a cover appears, where the text reads: "The relevant burden shall be In the case of these amendments, we have made provision for funding, which is general in nature and contains the reference to the subparagraphs, with the result that if we leave this term to paragraph 206, it, even if for a very low figure, would be covered twice. It is an overcover that would be better to remove, so I propose to expunge from the text, paragraph 206, from the words: At the relevant charge until the end of the period.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-11-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-912.ana.u87	We took note of the government's demands.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-11-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-912.ana.u88	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-11-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-912.ana.u89	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-11-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-912.ana.u90	Hundreds of thousands (LN-Aut). Mr President, I would like to make a little comment on the order of business. On Amendment 24.022 (text 2) and on the first paragraph of 29.033 (text 2) I would like to make a small correction to what President Tonini said, which said: "The Commission is proposing." President Tonini, let us correct: 'The Commission proposes, on a proposal from Senator Arrigoni, as you promised Senator Arrigoni in the Commission. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator Tonini, have you heard what Senator Centinario asked for? TONINI (PD). If I have understood correctly, it is always the question of asbestos, which I too raised. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Yes, can you repeat that, Senator Centinario? Hundreds of thousands (LN-Aut). You see, Mr President, since we have all thanked everyone, since we have given everyone prebende with the amendments, at least respect the word given to the Commission with a senator, who, however, committed himself. Senator Tonini's words weigh and, consequently, it is right that the promises be fulfilled. TONINI (PD). Words weigh like Senator Tonini. Of course: it has been said in the Commission and I have no difficulty in saying that it was Senator Arrigoni who raised the problem. Hundreds of thousands (LN-Aut). Then say it like you promised. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator Centinario proposes to speak, as he promised, rather than a Commission proposal, of Senator Arrigoni's proposal. TONINI (PD). Senator Arrigoni's proposal is an authoritative member of the Commission, even at this stage. I should like to add, for the sake of completeness, that some senators had to complain about the contemporaneity of the sitting of the Budget Committee with the continuation of the general debate and explanations of vote. In particular, Senator Bulgarelli. I am also a bearer of this concern. It's not new. We will now pass on to the next legislature the request to try to avoid, as far as possible, the overlap between the work of the House and the Commission.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-11-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-912.ana.u91	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-11-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-912.ana.u92	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-11-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-912.ana.u93	ENDRIZZI (M5S). Mr President, I also asked in this House to avoid overlapping, not only because of a matter of mutual respect, but also because we did not have a valid text on which to discuss and on which to declare the vote. I am still waiting for the assessment of the 1st Commission, unless it is intended as implicit, on the admissibility of the legal and localities parties that have been put in full hands by the Government and the majority of the Government throughout the process of manoeuvre. I would like President Tonini to make this point, because here, in the Palace, the people who work with us and who have experience of past legislation, tell me that there has never been an abundance of interests such as in this legislature and in this final budget law. On this it is important then to have at least one assumption of responsibility. I would like to understand whether President Tonini - whom you, Mr Grasso, have declared responsible for intervening on this matter - confirms that everything is okay and that everything is okay and that he has been found to complain about a million or so for the victims of asbestos, rejecting 80 million euros that would result from the abolition of the vitalities. Neither of these measures were included, and it was necessary to do so out of respect for the citizens who follow us. I would like a response and responsibility from President Tonini and then from you too, Mr Grasso.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-11-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-912.ana.u94	Senator Endirizzi, of course you can ask what you want, but, as we have just heard, as far as the victims of asbestos are concerned, President Tonini asked the Government to propose the amendment financed by the House. As far as declarations are concerned, it is clear that everything that has been found to be incompatible with the Commission's functions has been declared; everything else, of course, has been considered admissible.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-11-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-912.ana.u95	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-11-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-912.ana.u96	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-11-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-912.ana.u97	VICARI (AP-CpE-NCD). Mr President, I am sorry that I did not intervene earlier, but I was in the Budget Committee. Preliminarily, I would like to point out that the President of the Budget Commission has made an exact and correct statement, while the Deputy Minister, in reply, spoke of paragraph 316 and not of paragraph 344 as President Tonini: the specific one for a matter of drafting, but it is an intervention that would certainly have been made. Coming to the explanation of vote, the People's Alternative Group is ready to give its trust to the Government, as requested. With regard to baby bonuses, I would like to point out once again that we have greatly appreciated the words of Deputy Minister Morando in this House, especially for his commitment to intervene in the House of Deputies. These days, with an amendment, thanks to an absolutely rigid and firm position of our Group, the allowance for newborns has been reintroduced. We have also seen lively interpretations. Just as I had the opportunity to ask the government yesterday to clarify, precisely to avoid lively interpretations, since we listened to the group leader Santini in the Budget Committee declare that the Commission had voted on a certain measure, namely the trienniality for families (so not only a year), I would like here to reiterate the confirmation of the statements of Deputy Minister Morando and that the agreement, both political and strategic, on the family was respected by his statements. Precisely for these lively interpretations, the Government, if it considers it, will intervene in the House. We will also be careful here in the Senate, precisely for the work that will be done in the House and for the choices that will be made, especially in the light of the fact that it will be for this House and this House to approve definitively, namely the third reading. I would also like to reiterate a strong yes to certain aspects which concern, as we said yesterday, enterprise, work and family. As for the family, our commitment continues, as well as on the bonus, on a recognition of deductions for dependent children, which I hope the House can bring to completion. On the subject of enterprises, we have greatly appreciated the desire to create a decontribution for new recruits in the Mezzogiorno. Companies employing young people up to the age of 35 in the Mezzogiorno will be able to benefit from this decontribution. It is a very important and concrete fact, because we have often been accused of not intervening in the South and neglecting the South. A decontribution of this kind is undoubtedly a great recognition. This also applies to the possibility of creating a fund, which has been set up specifically, in favour of those who support, as care and assistance, families who are seriously ill or with difficulties. Also in the area of assistance to the weakest and the last ones there is a superticket. The superticket is intended for more vulnerable subjects. We are absolutely aware that the resources will not be able to meet all the needs: we will get to a certain point. The House may, I repeat, make improvements, but it is important for us to have restored the principle that the weakest, the most vulnerable and even the children can benefit from a lower ticket compared to other citizens. I will conclude on the subject from which I began: for the first time, after twenty years, the precarious school workers of the city of Palermo are finally given the opportunity - also for us this is a weaker band - to benefit from a stabilisation, in the manner that President Tonini has just reported. I should like to end by thanking the members of the Budget Committee, the rapporteurs, our rapporteur, Senator Gualdani and the rapporteur, for the great effort that has been made by everyone, by the Government, by the members of the Budget Committee, by the rapporteurs. We are sure and convinced that the commitments made by the Government will be respected and we will always be careful, in the Senate, for this to happen especially at the third reading stage. [[Applause from the AP-CpE-NCD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-11-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-912.ana.u98	However, Senator Vicari, since the Government has spoken to commit itself to the victims of asbestos, once again it is shown that bicameralism is useful. We take note of that. [[Applause from the LN-Aut and M5S groups and Senator Casaletto.]] BULGARRELLI (M5S). He's finally back on board!
ParlaMint-IT_2017-11-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-912.ana.u99	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-11-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-912.ana.u100	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-11-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-912.ana.u101	Mr Lezzi (M5S). Mr President, I have listened in the general debate, in the explanations of vote and in the replies of the rapporteurs and the Government so many thanks, so much self-celebration of what has been good. I would also like to thank Deputy Minister Morando, since he has been so committed to deepening 4,000 amendments: I imagine him looking for our amendment on citizenship income, which this morning, saddened, mortified, told us he could not find. Well, he could not find it because we did not present it, because for five years in a row we did so to hear us always say no, and because it is incardinated in the Commission work and if the Government wanted to carry it forward, we would be ready. But, since, obviously, he does not want and since the 5 Star Movement is always satisfied very little or almost nothing, we decided to focus on another amendment, that we were sure that the Democratic Party would accept, because, in fact, it takes up its own bill, signed by Richetti. However, this amendment was not accepted and was declared inadmissible. More than anything else, I want to focus on the progress of the work, because it - I say this for those who have not attended the work - was rather depressing. In addition to the fact that we have the government in check with ALA, the Verdini Group, which also forced it to change its opinion on a very specific amendment. The Group of Verdini called us ignorant, of low cultural level, of low thickness. Well, I want to say this publicly in this House: the fact that we are being denigrated, offended by someone who is convicted in the first instance of the crack of a bank [[Applause from the M5S Group]] , from a nostalgic of a fugitive - and I'm talking about Barani - and from another who is just good at making sexist insults and saying that women have to turn well covered if they go out at night, for us it is a great honor. And only with the Democratic Party can they be in alliance, certainly not with us. [[Applause from the M5S Group. Comments from the ALA Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-11-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-912.ana.u102	Senator, please adjust your language to the House.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-11-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-912.ana.u103	Mr Barani (ALA). That's his language! Mr Lezzi (M5S). I am adapting the language to the standing of Members of this House. If Senator Verdini is convicted in the first instance, it's not my fault! [[Comments from Senators Barani and D'Anna.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-11-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-912.ana.u104	Senator Lezzi, please stick to a non-offensive language.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-11-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-912.ana.u105	Mr Lezzi (M5S). We were convinced that the Democratic Party... D'ANNA (ALA). Shame on you! [[Protests from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-11-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-912.ana.u106	Senator D'Anna, please don't provoke. I intervened.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-11-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-912.ana.u107	FALANGA (ALA). President, we cannot listen to these words! PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator Falanga, I don't need your surgery, thank you. [[Comments from Senators D'Anna and Falanga.]] Mr Lezzi (M5S). Mr President, in fact, together with Barani and Verdini, when I spoke of sexist insults, I forgot Senator D'Anna; since he was not appointed he was probably offended. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] D'ANNA (ALA). You're a vajassa! [[Protests from the M5S Group.]] Mr Lezzi (M5S). It's an honor to us, Senator D'Anna. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Please, Senator, continue with your speech. Mr Lezzi (M5S). We said that we were convinced that the Democratic Party would treat us differently; we were convinced that there was more seriousness, that there would certainly be a constructive dialogue, because we put ourselves there and proposed amendments of common sense, than a government that, however, is also due to expire. I have heard in this House about growth, about the delivery of a better country. Then I would like to remind the Government, compared to the reduction in taxes that are now boasting, that it is 15 billion to block the safeguard clauses, but the safeguard clauses, that - we remind those who listen to us from outside - are nothing more than an increase in VAT or excise duty or in any case an increase of taxes that are placed in the budget to cover any holes, we did not invent them: they belong to someone and have a precise origin. The safeguard clauses come from the Berlusconi Government [[Applause from the M5S Group]] , which leaves it to the Letta Government and the Monti Government for 40 billion euros, including Decree-Law 138 of 13 August 2011, with the latest increase in VAT ranging from 21 to 22 percent. [[Applause from Senator Bulgarelli]] Yet, despite this, Berlusconi had not brought pensions to a thousand euros. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] And then comes Monti, who with his maneuvers tears and blood lowers them to 33 billion, leaving 6.5 billion to serve at Letta. Letta does not manage not to increase VAT and with the agreement, because it was part of the Government, of Forza Italia, for the second time, sanction the increase of VAT in November 2013. After that, Renzi arrives. Renzi then makes them exponential: 16, 19, 22 percent, for three years. Then they start a series of quirks, of false tax evasions made of tax allowances, while they went to choke our companies, those that work with the State and that with the split payment do not have the liquidity to face this system that strangles them. And so they pretend to fight tax evasion, strangle businesses and send an ever greater avalanche back to the next government. And when I asked Mr Padoan and the Parliamentary Budget Office: do you think, after all the flexibility gained by Europe, it will be possible not to increase taxes? No, that's not possible. Because growth, which has been assimilated thanks to the policies of this Government, will not be able to absorb it. And we're talking about growth. A few weeks ago I participated in a very interesting meeting, organized by the study center "Economy Reale" with Professor Baldassarri, who, with an extremely interesting retrospective analysis that I really propose to all parliamentarians to analyze and deepen, told us, with numbers, data and tables, that if there had not been the work of Draghi of quantitative easing, until 2017 we would always have had a negative growth. We managed, compared to the rest of Europe, to curb the action of Dragons with the policies of the Renzi Government, Berlusconi and also Gentiloni Silveri, because they are all a happy company, where they exchanged a series of tips and were satisfied all: even the parish below home had its 200,000 euros! [[Applause from the M5S Group Comments from the ALA Group]] But then, in perfect Berlusconian style, if we don't like one law, we make another one. So today, the rapporteur, Mrs Zanoni, says that we have to change the accounting law, done this year, as well as in the draft budget law they went to change the civil code to help cooperatives and went to derogate from the procurement code, approved this year, and the anti-mafia code approved this year! You do not know how to legislate, because then you derogate from what you yourself do. [[Live comments from PD and ALA groups.]] That's right. The draft budget law was made up of derogations and a thousandprorogations, which shouldn't already be there, but you put it there. But yes, as much as he does, we all have to go home to the constituency. [[Comments of Senator Cardinals]] Even Marcucci, who confused his amendment with Marchini: they are being slaughtered for their first signature. But then, ma'am, give me a minute. CARDINALI (PD). President, video footage! Mr Lezzi (M5S). In my opinion, we reached the top on the last night, at 2:00 a.m., when the President of the Health Commission arrived, who started banging her feet like a kindergarten girl, because she wanted the first signature to take home and started to get whimsical. [[Applause from the M5S Group. Comments of Senator De Biasi]] . PRESIDENT. - The debate is Please don't refer to senators' behavior. Please go to the substance of the matter and do not address the behavior of colleagues. Mr Lezzi (M5S). And Deputy Minister Morando had to put himself there to please her, to give a little toy for the college to the President of the Health Commission! DE BIASI (PD). Does that anger you? All envy! Mr Lezzi (M5S). This has happened. Mrs. De Biasi did this. It was an embarrassing scene. [[Ironic applause from the PD Group]] How embarrassing it was to see all Members, including now again Centinario, claim a first signature of the little honourableman who wants the amendment to be taken to the village. That's what we're talking about. DE BIASI (PD). President, that's enough! Mr Lezzi (M5S). That's all. It was mortifying to allocate EUR 25 million to compensate for the scams of banks. But we voted in favour because that amendment, that political choice, denies the Secretary of the Renzi Democratic Party who, on Radio 105, said that those people are speculators. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] He's lying about the woods that Gruber called them speculators. Then you were forced to return to your steps. [[Comments of Senator Ferrara Elena]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-11-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-912.ana.u108	Video footage in the Chamber is prohibited.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-11-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-912.ana.u109	Senator Endrizzi, you're a group leader, please. Mr Lezzi (M5S). You conned those people. FALANGA (ALA). The rules! Mr Lezzi (M5S). Yeah, the rules. I'll finish. We would have liked a very small amendment because there was little to do about poverty. We know - ISTAT and the Parliamentary Budget Office tell us - that the poor remain so and their number will not change. The million jobs left in Berlusconi, at least for decency. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Get it done. Mr Lezzi (M5S). We wanted to ask at least that the IMU that pays our entrepreneurs was completely deducible. [[Comments of the senators Cuomo and Ferrara Elena]] They told us "no" to give the IMU to the regasifiers of Santini's friends in Veneto, to make a spite to Mayor Nogarin. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] Maybe this, too. Clearly, our vote is against. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]] FALANGA (ALA). It's an interrogation!
ParlaMint-IT_2017-11-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-912.ana.u110	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-11-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-912.ana.u111	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-11-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-912.ana.u112	Mr Paglini (M5S). President, on the order of business! PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Only the Holding Company may intervene during explanations of vote. Senator Mandelli, please. MANDELLI (FI-PdL XVII). Put me in a position to do that. Mr Paglini (M5S). Mr President, will you give me the floor on the order of business? PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. No. We are in the process of explanations of vote. MANDELLI (FI-PdL XVII). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, today in the Senate a budgetary session is concluded which preludes the end of this seventeenth parliamentary term, a very messy session, marked by important interruptions necessary to hold together a heterogeneous majority. The budget law has been managed in ways that I would venture to say innovative and that, in the text that came out of the debate in the Commission, did not take into account some indications that it came from the opposition forces. We wanted to respond with so much common sense to all these obvious necklines, that little has been emphasized in this House for the great respect we bring towards the citizens. Three are the key concepts of this budget law: little money, the need to keep a majority sewn that has difficulty finding a common line of intent and few ideas on how to commit scarce resources. The narrow road indicated by Minister Padoan is the limit of this budget law and we have seen the narrow road very well. Forza Italia has aimed for this few and selected objectives: more aid to our families, increasingly exhausted by this crisis; more interventions for security and immigration; some measures to try to restart the country as - for example - the introduction of the dry coupon for commercial activities. Someone this morning said that we did not present our flags, such as the introduction of a lower, more acceptable pension. After four years of budgetary laws in which we presented our proposals, which you did not even want to listen to, but above all taking into account the episode of great democracy last year, when you lost the referendum and did not want to play even the second episode in the Senate, which is a very serious fact, and that the country must always charge you, we thought that it was really useless to go and break our ideas on your rubber wall, given the very little money. President Berlusconi has already increased the minimum pensions; he will do it again with our Government and you have no doubt about that. [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII]] The majority - as I have already said - did not take up any of our issues. It has included some of our ideas in the formation of the amendment on the baby bonus, but without grasping the essence of the problem: in a country where the decline of birth is inexorable, the solution is not the 80 euros (which will then fall to 40 from 2019) allocated to those who have a very low ISEE. Let's take it rather as a poverty bonus, because as many of the measures proposed in recent years have served only to cushion the growth of situations of social marginality. In this budget law the intervention on pensions has formulated a provision on the usurping works that is neither fair nor introduces principles of equity for the years to come; even less towards the new generations, always protected in words by the governments Renzi and Gentiloni Silveri. Some categories are inserted in a very partial way and others are left out which, perhaps, only because of the repetitiveness of the task, which already produces usury, would have had priority. The proposal on pensions goes in the wrong direction, in our view. It took 20 years to unify a social security system in which each category had its own rules and age requirements. And now that we finally have a unique and universalistic system, we are re-introducing differences between workers. The only solution - in our opinion - is to insert a series of outgoing flexibility. Today, our distrust is not only about this budget law, but it is in the whole of the measures adopted in recent years by the left-wing governments. The poor are increasing and, instead of creating new wealth and promoting structural economic growth, only the conditions have been set for redistributing existing wealth, making new interventions necessary to alleviate the growing social distress. Now the Frankfurt effect is clear and once again we must thank President Berlusconi for having found the European consensus on a figure of absolute prestige such as Mario Draghi to lead the European Central Bank. The extremely positive exogenous variables now have their full impact on our public accounts with an estimated growth of between 1.5 and 1.6% this year, but decreasing to 1% as early as 2018 and for the years to come. These predictions also confirm the failure to push reformist action claimed only in words by the center-left. [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII]] This budgetary maneuver is also being carried out very strongly in deficits. The alarm on public finances has already been triggered in European fora. As every year, the focus on budgetary manoeuvre has been on the regulatory measures contained in the first part, the one that traditionally was the financial law and then the law of stability. The second part, which concerns the real state budget, will be largely unchanged for 2018; a budget law of 860 billion, a first part worth 20 billion and the changes introduced by the Commission that are worth little more than 600 million euros. Therefore, due to the changes made, you will have a greater deficit that we will read about the 2018 adjustment. It is easy to understand that this maneuver, just like the previous ones, will not change the overall state of the Italian economy. There remains an oppressive tax burden and pressure that is only reduced as a result of the growth of the denominator, GDP, for the exogenous causes that we are all talking about all too often. The introduction of the IRI is postponed, a measure expected mainly by small entrepreneurs, while public expenditure remains largely centralised and largely unproductive. A predominant part of the public debt is mainly placed at the central level and not in the territorial authorities. Yet, once again there is yet another sacrifice of 2 billion is asked of the Regions. The problem of tax reduction is not at the heart of this Commission's agenda, nor has it been at the centre-left level. Today, this government not only does not reduce the tax burden, but it increases it. Of the 21 billion lower revenues, 19 are used for the sterilization of the VAT clauses of 2018 and the postponement of the entry into force of the IRI on companies, as I said a few minutes ago. On the other hand, there are more than 11 billion revenue, which are real taxes or taxes. What's missing then? There is no real structural intervention on the rules of our economy, starting with the tax system and the bureaucratic system; a serious plan to give a multiplier to public investment. Of course, nothing is done to extinguish the public administration's debts to suppliers of goods and services, kneeling so many, too many companies and so many, too many workers. The reasons why we cannot vote for this budget law, therefore, we represent them not only in this House today, but also abandoned entrepreneurs, self-employed people who are burdened with taxes and bureaucracy, and employees who enjoy a non-inclusive labour market. All of them express a dissent towards the action of this Executive who is palpable every day by those who live among people and with people. For these reasons, Forza Italia today expresses its no to this umpteenth confidence. [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-11-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-912.ana.u113	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-11-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-912.ana.u114	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-11-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-912.ana.u115	SANTINI (PD). (IT) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, representatives of the Government, the budget law now in adoption concludes the economic policy interventions developed in a structured way throughout the parliamentary term and acts within very narrow margins, as the Government has responsibly decided to devote three quarters of its intervention to the decommissioning of safeguard clauses, in order to avoid increasing the direct and indirect tax burden on households and businesses. The budget law, in the reading of the Senate, has chosen to measure itself in a non-reductive way with the issues that concern the living conditions of families and businesses, posed by the incisiveness of the transformations in progress. In terms of development policies, post-recession changes (the 2007-2012 major crisis) pose a new theme for all countries that concerns the pace of growth and possible support policies in a context of tight budgetary constraints and low inflation. In the face of this, development measures have been put in place with regard to both employment and investment. In addition, changes also raise the problem of advancing the digital economy, which raises the question of how to fiscally track economic activities and how to adapt human capital and investment to these changes. Important answers have been given on youth employment, which is the most affected at the moment; on the commitment to support innovative investment, both in quantity and quality, and on strengthening the human capital of our young people through specific interventions brought into the budget law. Moreover, right here at the Senate has introduced the web tax, which represents a first response to be consolidated over time, but which undoubtedly indicates a new concrete and practicable way not to be crushed by the changes in place. The second major transformation is the demographic crisis, which has posed for years and will pose more and more social questions in the future, starting from the issue addressed in the measures. Here we have seen in depth the issue of social security, drawing a path that, in the necessary maintenance of the balance of total social security expenditure now and over time, has allowed, however, to increase social protection to 15 groups of workers who will not be able to extend their stay at work, also introducing the theme of how to differentiate, with scientific data, the calculation of life expectancy and the related increase in the age of access to pension on the basis of a decision that will be linked to the severity of the work. This is an important element of reform of the previous social security law. The same attention has been paid to the theme of health welfare, dedicating a significant specific measure to reduce the negative effects of the superticket from the weakest social areas. It was also decided to set up a fund on so-called caregivers, i.e. proximity assistance to situations of disadvantage and handicap, in the name of a principle of closeness and subsidiarity which holds together the evolution of public welfare with that of the welfare of the social private. Similarly, a birth support measure, the so-called baby bonus, has been confirmed, which will have to be accompanied in future legislation by a universal and comprehensive policy on child allowances and support for people's services. Finally, with the fund for financial refreshment, a concrete response has been given to the drama caused by the crisis of the banks. I want to end my speech with an objective detection. We are avoiding the strong polemic we have heard in this House with two objective figures. To Senator Guerra, who mentioned a loss of 2 million units of work equivalent to 2008, I remind you that you have to read the data to the end. If we take data from 2013-2014, i.e. since the beginning of this legislature, objective data show an increase of more than 900,000 equivalent work units during this period. I also remind Senator Guerra, who should know very well since she was part of the Monti Government, that the collapse occurred during the Berlusconi and Monti Governments. [[Applause from the PD Group]] This is an objective fact that must be remembered. The second objective fact not to be forgotten in this House is that, on so many of the measures I have mentioned very quickly, there has been a unanimous or almost unanimous vote in the Commission by the various groups, which contrasts with the very controversial spirit that we have heard. I would like to reflect for a moment on the unanimous votes, because I think they have a meaning: they express the awareness, also from the opposition, that, in the face of the hardness of the challenges ahead, there are not easy answers, but assuming responsibilities that by their very nature are always concretely partial. However, they are important because - in our opinion - they go in the right direction, which is to create development in order to create jobs and to be able to have resources to promote an inclusive welfare and able to respond above all to the serious difficulties of the weakest people, as has been done in practice with the income of occupational inclusion. Beyond any controversy, we think that only with the controversy one does not go anywhere. We believe that what has been done over the years and with this budget law is a further step in the right direction for our families, for the world of work and for democratic institutions, which we offer to the citizens' assessment. Meanwhile, as a PD Group, we vote with conviction on the draft budget law and trust in the Government. [[Applause from the PD Group and Senator Longo.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-11-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-912.ana.u116	I would like to point out the vote on amendment 1,700 (correct text), tabled by the Government, entirely replacing Articles 1 to 102-bis of draft law no. 2960, on the approval of which the Government has put the question of trust. Pursuant to Rule 94, second paragraph, of the Constitution and pursuant to Rule 161, paragraph 1, of the Rules of Procedure, the vote on the matter of trust will take place by roll-call vote. Each senator called by the Senator Secretary will have to vote before the Presidency. The senators for trust will answer yes; the opposing senators will answer no; the senators who intend to abstain will speak accordingly. Many requests have been made to anticipate the vote, which I will only endorse for the members of the Government who have revealed the needs and for those who have health reasons. For the rest, I'm sorry but I can't Accept them. I now draw by lot the name of the senator from whom the roll call will begin. (The name of Senator Bellot is drawn by lot.) I invite Senator Secretary to proceed with the appeal, starting with Senator Bellot. PEGORER, secretary, makes the appeal. The senators answered: Aiello, Albano, Amati, Angioni, Anitori, Astorre Barani, Bencini, Bertuzzi, White, Bianconi, Bondi, Borioli, Broglia, Buemi Caleo, Cantini, Capacchione, Cardinals, Chiavaroli, Chiti, Cirinnà, Cocincich, Collina, Colucci, Conte, Cucca D'Adda, Dalla Zuanna, D'Anna, D'Ascoli, D'Ascoli, De Biasi, Del Barba, Della Vedova, Di Biagio, Di Giorgi, D'Onghia Esposito Lucia, Esposito Stefano Fabbri, Falanga, Fasiolo, Fattorini, Faverni, Fadeli, Ferrara Elena, Filippin, Finocchiaro, Fissore, Formigoni, Fravezzi Gambaro, Gentile, Jacobo, Gianni, Ginetti, Ginetti, Ginetti, Ginetti, Ginetti, Ginetti, Ginetti, Ginetti, Ginetti, Ginetti, Ginetti, Ginetti, Ginetti, Ginetti, Ginetti, Ginetti, Ginetti, Ginetti, Ginetti, Ginetti, Ginetti, Ginetti, Ginetti, Ginetti, Ginetti, Ginetti, Ginetti, Ginetti, Ginetti, Ginetti, Ginetti, Ginetti, Ginetti, Ginetti, Ginetti, Ginetti, Ferrara, Ferrara, Fieri, Fieri, Fieri, Fieri, Fieri, Fieri, Fieri, Fieri, Fieri, Fieri, Ferrara, Fieri, Fieriol, Fieri, Fieri, Fieriol, Fieri, F. The senators: Aracri, Arrigoni, Augello, Auricchio Barozzino, Battista, Bellot, Bernini, Bignami, Bilardi, Bilinella, Blundo, Bocchino, Bonfrisco, Bottici, Bruni, Bubbico, Bulgarelli Calderoli, Caliendo, Campanella, Candiani, Cappelletti, Carraro, Casaletto, Cassinelli, Castaldi, Catalfo, Centinario, Ceroni, Cervellini, Ciampolillo, Cioffi, Consiglio, Conti, Corsini, Cotti, Crimi, Crosio D'Alì, Davico, De Cristofaro, De Petris, De Siano, Di Giacomo, Di Maggio, Divina, Donno Endrizzi Fasano, Ferrara Mario, Fornaro, Fucksia Gaetti, Galimberti, Gatti, Giarrusso, Giovanardi, Giovanardi, Girotti, Girotto, Girotto, Girotto, Girotto, Girotto, Girotto, Goaiola, Picola, Piccizzi Fasanoizzi, Picchigligliano, Ferrarazzi, Ferrarazzi, Ferrarazzi, Tor Lor Lor Lor Lor Lor Lor. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I declare the vote closed and invite the Secretary Senators to proceed with the counting of votes. (Secretary Senators proceed to count votes). I declare the result of the roll-call vote with the appeal of amendment 1,700 (correct text), entirely replacing Articles 1 to 102-bis of the bill n. 2960, on the approval of which the Government has put the question of trust: [[Senators present 243 Senators voting 242 Majority 122 Favorables 149 Contrars 93]] The Senate approves. All amendments relating to Articles 1 to 102-a of the draft law are therefore excluded. Ladies and gentlemen, following the adoption of amendment 1,700 (correct text) Articles 1 to 102-a have been incorporated into the new Article 1 of the draft law. I note that the remaining articles and amendments will still be put to the vote in the original numbering, as indicated in the draft law. The Presidency is now entitled to make coordination changes following the adoption of amendment 1,700 (correct text). We shall then proceed to the examination of the remaining articles of the bill. With the approval of the individual articles, the tables, the general frameworks, the annexes, the lists referred to by the articles themselves and included in the printed draft law are also to be approved. At this stage of the discussion, pursuant to Rule 129 (5) of the Rules of Procedure, only those who submit agendas and amendments to present them, and therefore the rapporteur and the representative of the Government, will be able to speak on each item in order to express their opinion. Please reach your seats. I put to the vote Article 103, which corresponds to Article 2 of the final text of the draft law. It's approved. We shall now proceed to the examination of Rule 104, on which amendments have been tabled, published in the distribution dossier, which are intended to be presented and on which I invite the rapporteurs and the representative of the Government to give their views.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-11-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-912.ana.u117	Mr President, I am against all the amendments to Rule 104.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-11-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-912.ana.u118	Mr President, I agree with the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-11-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-912.ana.u119	We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 104.Tab.2.1.5. Mr Calderoli (Misto-LpSP). Mr President, we are calling for simultaneous voting by electronic means. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported).
ParlaMint-IT_2017-11-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-912.ana.u120	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-11-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-912.ana.u121	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-11-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-912.ana.u122	CHAMPOLILLO (M5S). Mr. President, since we're starting... Are there any cards in the absent senator stations? CHAMPOLILLO (M5S). Yes, you have to remove the cards... I prevented it. CHAMPOLILLO (M5S). There's a lot of them in the stations on my left. I would ask you to remove them before the vote, of course. Thank you.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-11-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-912.ana.u123	I'm asking the senators to cooperate by removing the ballots from the absent senators' stations. I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 104.Tab.2.1.5, tabled by Senator Conte and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). CHAMPOLILLO (M5S). There are other cards! PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Please help us remove cards that don't match a senator. I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 104.Tab.2.2.5, tabled by Senators Taverna and Gaetti. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 104.Tab.2.3.5, tabled by Senator Girotto and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 104.Tab.2.4.5, tabled by Senators Gotor and Guerra. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 104.Tab.2.5.5. ZELLER (Aut (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT)-PSI-MAIE). I'm gonna drop it, ma'am. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 104.Tab.2.6.5, tabled by Senator Bonfrisco. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 104.Tab.2.7.5. SOLLO (PD). Mr President, I would add my signature to Amendments 104.Tab.2.7.5 and 104.Tab.2.8.5 and withdraw them. PRESIDENT. - The debate is We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 104.Tab.2.9.5. SANTINI (PD). President, I'm withdrawing it. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Rule 104. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the examination of Rule 105, on which amendments have been tabled which are intended to be presented and on which I invite the rapporteurs and the representative of the Government to give their views.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-11-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-912.ana.u124	Mr President, I am against all the amendments.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-11-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-912.ana.u125	Mr President, I agree with the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-11-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-912.ana.u126	I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 105.Tab.3.1.10, tabled by Senators Castaldi and Girotto. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 105.Tab.3.2.10, tabled by Senator Cotti and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Rule 105. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Rule 106. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Rule 107. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Rule 108. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). I refer to the roll-call vote by a simultaneous vote on Rule 109. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the examination of Rule 110, on which amendments have been tabled which are intended to be presented and on which I invite the rapporteurs and the representative of the Government to give their views.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-11-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-912.ana.u127	Mr President, I am against all the amendments.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-11-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-912.ana.u128	Mr President, I agree with the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-11-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-912.ana.u129	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-11-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-912.ana.u130	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-11-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-912.ana.u131	DI BIAGIO (AP-CpE-NCD). Mr President, I withdraw Amendments 110.3 and 110.4.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-11-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-912.ana.u132	We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 110.1.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-11-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-912.ana.u133	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-11-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-912.ana.u134	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-11-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-912.ana.u135	MALAN (FI-PdL XVII). Mr President, we are voting in favour of amendment 110.1, which protects the voluntary staff of the National Firefighters' Corps. Especially after the episodes that have taken place in recent months, but which always see the fire brigades engaged, especially those who are volunteers, who are particularly numerous only in a part of our country, I believe that it would be a truly necessary recognition. In addition to the many measures introduced in this draft budget, it would have been logical to introduce this. It is a protection for those who fight, risking their lives, to safeguard the environment and people.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-11-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-912.ana.u136	I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of the first part of Amendment 110.1 tabled by Senator Piccoli and other senators, until the words: "Permanent service" are added. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). The remaining part and amendment 110.2 are therefore excluded. Amendments 110.3 and 110.4 have been withdrawn. I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Rule 110. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the examination of Rule 111, on which amendments have been tabled which are intended to be presented and on which I invite the rapporteurs and the representative of the Government to give their views.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-11-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-912.ana.u137	Mr President, I am against all the amendments.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-11-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-912.ana.u138	Mr President, I agree with the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-11-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-912.ana.u139	I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 111.Tab.9.1.5, tabled by Senator Pegorer and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 111.Tab.9.2.5, tabled by Senator Pegorer and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Rule 111. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Rule 112. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Rule 113. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Rule 114. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Rule 115. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Rule 116. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Rule 117. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Rule 118. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the examination of Rule 119, on which amendments have been tabled, which I would ask the authors to explain. Mr Barani (ALA). Mr President, I withdraw amendment 119.4 (text 2). PRESIDENT. - The debate is The remaining amendments are set out. I invite the rapporteurs and the representative of the Government to comment on these amendments.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-11-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-912.ana.u140	Mr President, the opinion is against it.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-11-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-912.ana.u141	Mr President, the Government's opinion is also against it.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-11-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-912.ana.u142	Amendment 119.4 (text 2) has been withdrawn. I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 119.6 tabled by Senator Piccoli and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 119.7 tabled by Senator Piccoli and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the nominal vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 119.8, tabled by Senators Baptist and Di Giorgi. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Rule 119. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Rule 120. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). Ladies and gentlemen, since all the articles in the draft law have been examined, the Government will now have to draw up the corresponding Note of Variations, which will be sent to the Senate as soon as possible. The 5th Permanent Commission is now authorized to convene for the examination of this document and then to report back to the Assembly. Pending the presentation by the Government of the Note of changes to the budget, I suspend the session. (The sitting was suspended at 7.45 p.m. and resumed at 21.18 p.m.) Ladies and gentlemen, the Minister for Economic Affairs and Finance presented the Note of changes to the State budget for the financial year 2018 and the multiannual budget for the three-year period 2018-2020. This note was referred to the 5th Permanent Commission. Before proceeding to the final vote of the bill it is necessary to pass, in accordance with Article 129, paragraph 2 of the Regulation, to the examination and resolution on the Note of Variations, with which the Government has introduced in the text of the bill and in the annexed tables the modifications consequent to the determinations adopted by the Senate when examining the articles. The rapporteurs may take the floor to report on the conclusions adopted by the 5th standing Commission on the Note of Variations.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-11-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-912.ana.u143	Mr President, this Note of changes to the State budget for the financial year 2018 and the multiannual budget for the three-year period 2018-2020 has been prepared in order to transpose the effects of the amendments approved by the Senate of the Republic to the draft budget law. These effects are reflected in this Note of variations and are neutral with respect to the objectives set in the maneuver in terms of public finance balances. In relation to the above, this Note updates the accounting values of Article 16 (general expenditure total) of the draft budget law and involves changes: to the general summary frameworks for the three-year period 2018-2020 in terms of competence and cash; to the estimates of revenue (Table 1) and to all estimates of expenditure by the Ministries (Tables 2 to 14). As a result, amendments are also made to the relevant technical annexes by chapters. This Note of Variations, again this year, is presented in accordance with the new approach laid down by Law No 163 of 4 August 2016, amending the Law of Accounting and Public Finance No 196 of 31 December 2009. This new approach stems from the fact that, on the basis of the new provisions, the two draft laws composing the three-year maneuver of public finance - the bill of stability and the draft budget - are now incorporated into a single bill organized in two separate sections. The prospectuses for the voting unit and the technical annexes for chapters now present the entire budget of the State and not only the units and chapters that have changed due to the amendments to the bill. Changes related to the amendments adopted are set out in appropriate columns separately for Section I and Section II.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-11-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-912.ana.u144	We shall now proceed to the vote on the Note of Variations. With the approval of the Note of Variations, the text on which the Senate pronounced itself in the previous stages of the procedure, in reference to both the articles of the bill and the annexed tables, will be modified accordingly. Mr Calderoli (Misto-LpSP). Mr President, in order not to lose our habit, we are asking for a quorum check. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators, by electronic procedure. (The request is not supported.) I put the Note of Variations to the vote. It's approved. Pursuant to Rule 120 (3) of the Rules of Procedure, I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of the bill n. 2960, as a whole, in the amended text. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (see Annex B). [[Applause from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-11-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-912.ana.u145	The Assembly will meet again at 4.30 p.m. on Tuesday 5 December, with the following agenda: Also on Tuesday, at 1 p.m., the Conference of Leaders is convened to define the schedule of work for the coming weeks.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-11-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-912.ana.u146	The motions, questions and questions received by the Presidency will be published in Annex B to today's report.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-11-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-912.ana.u147	The Senate will meet again in public session on Tuesday 5 December, at 4.30 p.m., with the following agenda: (See agenda) The sitting was closed at 21.25 a.m.
