ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-915.ana.u1	The sitting was opened at 11.05 a.m. The Minutes shall be read. Mr SIBILIA, Secretary, gave a reading of the Minutes of the sitting of 6 December.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-915.ana.u2	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-915.ana.u3	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-915.ana.u4	Mr Quagliarello (FL-Id-PL, PLI)). Mr President, I would like to ask for the vote on the Minutes, subject to a quorum check. Verification of quorum
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-915.ana.u5	I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators, by electronic procedure. (The request is supported). I therefore call on the senators to make their presence known by electronic means. (Follows the quorum check.) The Senate has a quorum. Resumption of the debate on the Minutes I put the Minutes to the vote. It's approved.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-915.ana.u6	The list of senators on leave and absent on assignment received from the Senate, as well as further communications to the Assembly, will be published in Annex B to today's Minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-915.ana.u7	I would warn you that qualified votes can be taken in the course of today's sitting by electronic means. Therefore, from this moment the period of twenty minutes from the notice provided for in Article 119, paragraph 1 of the Regulation (11:10) begins.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-915.ana.u8	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-915.ana.u9	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-915.ana.u10	WHITE (AP-CpE-NCD). Mr President, as you have been able to read about the agencies and even today's newspapers, my party will meet at 6 p.m. this afternoon to make absolutely extraordinary decisions for itself, but - I understand this - certainly not extraordinary for this House. When we established the organization of work for the examination of the measure on the end of life, of course I could not know that yesterday's direction would be extended even today. Therefore, I am here to ask this House for courtesy to allow my Group to take part this afternoon in its national leadership. I know I only ask for a courtesy. It is permissible to ask, but it is in your hands, Mr President, and in those of the leaders of this House. It is obvious that my parliamentary group at 6 p.m. will be forced to leave this House, because we will all have to make a choice together that is really important to us. Therefore, I would like to ask this courtesy by repeating that I could not know what the situation would be today, without prejudice, Mr President, to the possibility that you consider it impossible, given the organisation of the work decided at the Conference of the Leaders. PRESIDENT. - The debate is Senator Bianconi, before further deepening with the Leaders, I ask you whether or not you propose something specific compared to the proposed need. WHITE (AP-CpE-NCD). Mr President, I ask that the sitting be interrupted at 6 p.m. But I realize, Mr President, the weight of this request. I only ask for this courtesy because, really, we could not know that the situation would go in a certain way. So, I'm just asking for an act of courtesy.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-915.ana.u11	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-915.ana.u12	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-915.ana.u13	ROMANI Paolo (FI-PdL XVII). Mr President, I believe that the suffering of the party represented by Senator Bianconi must be respected. Moreover, this week's agenda has also been changed, as the President of the Council, Mr Gentiloni, will come to the Chamber today while his statements were scheduled for tomorrow afternoon's sitting. In my opinion, since the possibility has already been established in the group leaders, indeed the duty to conclude the work on Thursday with explanations of vote and the final vote on the measure, with an intelligent organization of the work it will be possible to accept the request made by Senator Bianconi.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-915.ana.u14	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-915.ana.u15	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-915.ana.u16	Mr Quagliarello (FL-Id-PL, PLI)). Mr President, we agree with the request made by Senator Bianconi, which involves a different modulation of the work. A proposal could be to continue work on tomorrow's night, increasing the number of hours possible. I am talking about the evening of tomorrow and not this evening because - and I believe that Senator Bianconi is absolutely aware of it - this means recovering a time absolutely due and of which this measure also clearly needs.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-915.ana.u17	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-915.ana.u18	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-915.ana.u19	WAR (Art. 1-MDP). Mr President, having said that I explicitly asked at the meeting of the Group leaders that the request made by the Forza Italia Group at the time should be the only one, because otherwise, if all the groups had made requests, we would not have been able to move forward, it seems to me that we are faced with an exceptional situation that deserves our attention. Even the shift in the meeting with the President-in-Office of the Council does not change our timetable much, because Wednesday afternoon was somehow lost and we will give up for lost, for the purpose of voting on the draft law on the end of life, even on Tuesday afternoon. In giving my assent, however, I have two requests. The first is that there is the commitment of the other group leaders to set meetings of a certain kind outside the few hours we spend at the meetings of the Assembly; the second, even more important, is that it remains fixed as the final date for the final vote on the measure on the end of life what we have agreed, namely Thursday morning with the explanations of vote and the final vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-915.ana.u20	I would remind everyone, in reply to Senator Guerra, that the deadline of 11 a.m. on Thursday morning for explanations of vote is still fixed and, therefore, one way or another, the examination of the amendments will be concluded.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-915.ana.u21	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-915.ana.u22	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-915.ana.u23	Mr Russo (PD). Mr President, our Group would like to reiterate the need to have adequate voting time and to keep the final time for the determination of the vote on the measure under consideration. It is clear that the needs of colleagues in the AP-CpE-NCD Group seem absolutely extraordinary. If there were, however, a way to harmonize their needs with those of the House, perhaps by moving their direction again by an hour and working until 7.30 p.m., to give them the opportunity to work immediately afterwards, this could be a solution that would keep everyone's needs together.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-915.ana.u24	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-915.ana.u25	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-915.ana.u26	Hundreds of thousands (LN-Aut). Mr President, precisely because the final vote is scheduled for Thursday, and as a result there is no intention or obstructive instinct on the part of anyone, I agree with President Quagliariello's proposal to recover the hours lost today by extending the sitting tomorrow evening, to move forward with the votes, precisely because we believe that this measure, because of its importance, should be discussed and there should be as much sharing as possible on it.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-915.ana.u27	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-915.ana.u28	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-915.ana.u29	ENDRIZZI (M5S). Mr President, there is - as it were - competition between both legitimate aims. The courtesy requested by Senator Bianconi I imagine will have as mutual correspondent the willingness to accept and - play force - a slight reduction of the times of discussion, without prejudice to the commitment already shared by the Assembly; with a vote, to conclude the work by the date and the time of next Thursday. From our point of view, therefore, if there is sharing on maintaining the commitment that the Assembly has made - and it is therefore also the responsibility of the Group of Senator Bianconi to accept that the dynamics are these - there is no opposition on our part. We give the willingness, as we have always done, to extend the working hours and to recover the lost time. We had, among other things, expressed our willingness to work on public holidays and, therefore, even more so, if there were to be a change of time, we would be in favour.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-915.ana.u30	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-915.ana.u31	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-915.ana.u32	DE PETRIS (Misto-SI-SEL). Mr President, the fundamental thing is not to change the time of the final vote. And at this point I believe that there is an even greater commitment, which is also reiterated by the House, and then everyone will settle accordingly. Without prejudice to this, I believe there is also the possibility of recovering a few lost hours, perhaps extending the duration of the session of tomorrow and avoiding to pause for the Commissions, because at the limit you will be able to recover also that time.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-915.ana.u33	Colleagues, it seems acceptable to me the request of Senator Bianconi, who of course will take note of the Assembly's willingness to comply with his requests and will also make the timing of his Group's speeches compatible, so that the examination of the measure can be concluded on the dates and times we have already given ourselves. The proposal I make to this House is therefore to suspend work at the end of President Gentiloni Silveri's communications, which should be completed immediately after 6 p.m. Until then, we are working on the item on the agenda.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-915.ana.u34	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-915.ana.u35	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-915.ana.u36	Mr Quagliarello (FL-Id-PL, PLI)). Mr President, for the sake of harmonisation of time, we could expect the end of work tomorrow at midnight rather than at 10 p.m. and move explanations of vote from 11 a.m. to 12 p.m... [[Brusio.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-915.ana.u37	Senator Quagliariello, we have already established that explanations of vote will begin at 11 a.m. on Thursday. The President will harmonize the timetable so that explanations of vote begin at 11 a.m.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-915.ana.u38	Mr Quagliarello (FL-Id-PL, PLI)). Well, we're gonna lose four hours today, 6:00 p.m. to 10:00 p.m. PRESIDENT. - The debate is We'll get them back. Don't worry, Senator Quagliariello. Mr Quagliarello (FL-Id-PL, PLI)). I'm relying on your expertise, then. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Unfortunately, the Presidency cannot bind or arm the senators in this House. If there were to be no quorum, you know that this would not allow you to work at the times you proposed.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-915.ana.u39	The next item is the continuation of the debate on draft law Nos. 2801, already approved by the Chamber of Deputies in a text resulting from the unification of the draft own-initiative law of the Mantero and others deputies; Locatelli and others; Murer and others; Roccella and others; Nicchi and others; Binetti and others; Carloni and others; Miotto and others; Nizzi and others; Fucci and others; Calabro and Binetti; Brignone and others; Iori and others; Marzano; Marazziti and others; Giordano Silvia and others, 5, 13, 87, 177, 443, 485 and 1973. I would remind you that a preliminary question was rejected at the sitting on 6 December, that the general discussion took place and that the representative of the Government gave up his reply. I would like to inform you that the Presidency - and I am in distribution - has received the opinions of the 1st and 5th standing Commission on the draft law under consideration and the amendments, which will be published in an annex to today's report. We shall proceed to the examination of Article 1, on which amendments have been tabled, which are intended to be presented, on which I invite the representative of the Government to give its opinion.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-915.ana.u40	Mr President, I am going back to the House.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-915.ana.u41	In accordance with the provisions already laid down in the Commission's examination, amendments from 01.40 to 01.153 on page 115 of Tomo I are unacceptable as they aim to introduce in the articulated issues which are not covered by the draft law such as the prohibition of euthanasia or the incitement to suicide and the recognition and protection of the right to pain therapy, which is the exclusive purpose of the draft law. The Presidency, in accordance with what has already been established in the course of the examination in the Commission, also declares that, pursuant to Article 97 (1) of the Rules of Procedure, the amendments contained in the lists in distribution, as they are unrelated to the content of the draft law under consideration, which contains rules on informed consent and early processing provisions. It also states that the amendments also appearing on the distribution lists are inadmissible, since they have a manifestly icious or non-modifying content. We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 01.167, which is not possible only under point (c). SANTANGELO (M5S). Mr President, these are now the last requests, hoping that the Rules of Procedure will take its new course. We call, if possible, for all votes to be taken simultaneously by electronic means, in order to avoid the usual nursery rhyme. PRESIDENT. - The debate is It will be proposed for each article, but I will take into account your prior request. I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). We suspend the sitting at 11.30 a.m. to start the usual 20 minutes' notice. (The sitting was suspended at 11.24 a.m. and resumed at 11.32 a.m.) Colleagues, the session is resumed.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-915.ana.u42	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-915.ana.u43	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-915.ana.u44	Hundreds of thousands (LN-Aut). Mr President, we have seen that the Presidency has declared a number of amendments that we believe should not be. We're talking about early treatment arrangements, not births or who knows what. At a time when amendments to assess pain therapy or to declare euthanasia illegal, we believe that the Presidency needs to reconsider. However, these are matters relating to the end of life and the choices a family or a doctor must make when a person reaches the end of his life. If such amendments are declared inadmissible, we can declare all the amendments we have tabled so far inadmissible. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-915.ana.u45	Senator Centinario, the impponibility that has been read by the Presidency confirms what has already been adopted in the Commission. Moreover, this time, in communicating the impponibilitys, we have also given the reasons and, therefore, I must maintain the pronunciation already expressed. Amendments 01.40 to 01.153 cannot be proposed. I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 01.168, tabled by Senator Centinario, which is not possible only under point (c). (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of the first part of amendment 1,316, tabled by Senator Centinario, until the words "Article" are added. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). The remaining part and amendments from 1.317 to 1.1 are therefore not included. Amendments 1.2 and 1.3 cannot be proposed. I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of the first part of Amendment 1.4, tabled by Senator Bianconi and other senators, up to the words "the planned cases." (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). The remaining part and amendments 1.5 to 1.314 are therefore not included. Amendments 1,301 to 1,314 are unacceptable. I would like to refer to the nominal vote by simultaneous ballot of the first part of amendment 1,177, tabled by Senator Bianconi and other senators, up to the words "Everyone". (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). The remaining part and amendments 1,178 to 1,212 are therefore not included. I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1,100, tabled by Senator Bianconi and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Amendments 1,323 to 1,272 are unacceptable. I would like to refer to the nominal vote by simultaneous ballot of the first part of amendment 1,383, tabled by Senator Centinario, until the words "comma 1" are added. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). The remaining part and amendments from 1.384 to 1.388 are therefore not included. I would like to refer to the nominal vote by simultaneous ballot of the first part of amendment 1,390, tabled by Senator Centinario, until the words 'elderly individual'. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). The remaining part and amendments from 1.395 to 1.402 are therefore not included. I would like to point out the nominal vote by simultaneous ballot of the first part of amendment 1,393 tabled by Senator Centinario, until the words 'they are recommended' are used. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). The remaining part and amendment 1.398 are therefore not included. I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1,403 tabled by Senator Bianconi and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Amendment 1,404 is not possible. I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of the first part of amendment 1,405, tabled by Senator Bianconi and other senators, up to the words of the Constitution. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). The remaining part and amendment 1,406 are therefore not included. I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1,408 tabled by Senator Centinario. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Amendments 1,409 and 1,409 (text 2) are unacceptable. I would like to refer to the nominal vote by simultaneous ballot of the first part of amendment 1,410, tabled by Senator Bianconi and other senators, up to the words 'European Union', which are not possible only under point (c). (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). The remaining part and amendments 1,411 and 1,412 are therefore not included. Let us move on to amendment 1,413, on which the 5th Commission has expressed an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution. Pursuant to Rule 102- bis of the Rules of Procedure, I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of the first part of amendment 1,413, tabled by Senator Centinario, until the words "natural death" are used. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). The remaining part and amendments from 1,503 to 1,769 are therefore not included. We move on to amendment 1,414, on which the 5th Commission has expressed its opposition under Article 81 of the Constitution. Pursuant to Rule 102- bis of the Rules of Procedure, I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of the first part of amendment 1,414, tabled by Senator Centinario, until the words "equality" are used. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). The remaining part and amendments 1,416 to 1,415 are therefore not included. I would like to refer to the nominal vote by simultaneous ballot of the first part of amendment 1,583 tabled by Senator Centinario, until the words 'health'. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). The remaining part and amendments from 1.584 to 1.765 are therefore not included. I refer to the nominal vote by simultaneous ballot of the first part of amendment 1.512, tabled by Senator Centinario, until the words "human person" are used. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). The remainder of the amendment and amendments 1.513 to 1.776 are therefore not included. Let us move on to amendment 1,509, on which the 5th Commission has expressed an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution. Pursuant to Rule 102-bis of the Rules of Procedure, I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of the first part of Amendment 1.509, tabled by Senator Centinario, until the words "care" are used. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). The remainder of the amendment and amendments 1.510 to 1.774 are therefore not included. I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1.810, tabled by Senator Bianconi and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1.811, tabled by Senator Centinario. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1.809, tabled by Senator Centinario. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1,812, tabled by Senator Centinario. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1,813, tabled by Senator Centinario. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1,814, tabled by Senator Bianconi and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1.815, tabled by Senator Bianconi and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1,816, tabled by Senator Bianconi and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1.817, tabled by Senator Bianconi and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1,819, tabled by Senator Centinario, identical to amendments 1,820, tabled by Senator Sacconi and other Senators, 1,821, tabled by Senator Gasparri and other Senators, and 1,822, tabled by Senator Bianconi and other Senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 1,818.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-915.ana.u46	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-915.ana.u47	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-915.ana.u48	Mr Quagliarello (FL-Id-PL, PLI)). Mr President, Amendment 1,818 proposes to add one of the constitutional principles to which the measure we are going to vote must also be subject to that of formal and substantial equality: "All citizens have equal social dignity and are equal before the law without distinction of sex, race, language, religion, political opinions, personal and social conditions." This, in our view, must be all the more true and respected when we are preparing to intervene on sensitive issues such as illness and life. Let us consider, for example, how fragile conditions, social marginality, lack of economic support can affect end-of-life decisions. Recalling the principle of equality to us seems to be a significant and important choice.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-915.ana.u49	I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1,818, tabled by Senators Quagliariello and Giovanardi. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of the first part of amendment 1,823, tabled by Senator Bianconi and other senators, up to the word "obligatory." (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). The remaining part and amendment 1.824 are therefore not included. I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1,825, tabled by Senator Bianconi and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of the first part of amendment 1,826, tabled by Senator Centinario, up to the word "13". (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). The remaining part and amendments from 1,827 to 1,830 are therefore not included. I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1,831 tabled by Senator Bianconi and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 01.32, tabled by Senator Sacconi and other senators, identical to amendment 01.33, tabled by Senator Centinaio, which cannot be proposed until point b). (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B).
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-915.ana.u50	We greet the Biotechnological Institute "Sandro Pertini" in Campobasso, which is attending our work from the forums. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-915.ana.u51	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-915.ana.u52	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-915.ana.u53	Gasparri (FI-PdL XVII). Colleagues, amendment 1.855 adds specifications to say that patients who are end-of-life or in conditions of death expected to be imminent should not be required to undergo treatment that is not proportionate or inadequate or, at that point, substantially unnecessary. The amendment serves to point to the opposition, even of those who are opposed to this law, as is being done, to the so-called therapeutic aggression. We are proceeding fairly quickly in this examination, demonstrating that there is no obstructive intent. However, I believe that it will be necessary, as we discuss, to enter into the points that are at the heart of those who have done an amending work. My group, moreover, has discussed within itself, in full respect of all positions, and there has been an opposing opinion on a number of merit and technical assessments. This is one of the points that we want to reiterate because it is precisely those who are opposed to this type of legislative activity and privilege the so-called therapeutic alliance between doctor and patient in the phase in which life runs out and death arrives, when, therefore, family members and doctors are called - and concrete cases, each of us, in life, has found them in its path - to take note of what nature imposes. On the one hand, we believe that the risk of euthanasic drift is to be banned - the subject was dealt with by some of the amendments discussed earlier and I think it will come back - and, on the other hand, with this amendment we intend to put ourselves against therapeutic aggression, because it is not that those who oppose this measure imagine that we must go beyond the reasonable limits. The problem is precisely this: banning any practices of therapeutic aggressiveness must not lead to the opposite excess. Other amendments concern the role of the doctor and his role in protecting life, as long as it is a matter of life. The amendment - and I also say this to the advocates of the law, who have certainly different opinions from mine - should be married to them because it says no to therapeutic behavior, which is one of the basic principles. On another side we disagree, probably and I am referring to the fact that denying hydration and nutrition can actually lead to euthanasia and therefore that hydration and nutrition are medicines rather than a form of support due to it. This amendment is to say: no to therapeutic aggression. In this speech I wanted to stress not only the validity of the proposal I am making to this House, but also the contribution of clarity that this amendment entails, because there are two extremes to avoid, in my opinion and many of my colleagues. The first extreme to avoid is to think that medicine and science must go beyond any limit. This is not possible, although things have changed a great deal today, and where therapy, medicine and medication allow us to deal with situations in a different way, it is clear that they must be used. Think of what incredible progress cardiology has made over the decades: situations that would inevitably lead to the death of the patient, today are addressed and resolved within twenty-four hours. I am not a doctor and therefore I do not want to go into technicalism; in this House there are doctors who better than I can illustrate the portents - at least I am not a doctor so I judge them - of medical science in the field of cardiological diseases, which have led to a substantial change in quality, expectations and duration of life. That is not therapeutic aggression, but it is medicine and surgery that usefully intervene and change the prospects. In other cases, there is no doubt that we enter into therapy or even, God forbid, forms of experimentation. This amendment says never to resort to aggression, because man does not have the right to do so. Here it is not a problem of believers or non-believers: I and I believe other colleagues have not faced this debate with a religious or theological approach. Religious faiths are outside the secular legislative activity of a Parliament. The issue of the end of life and of this manageable border must be dealt with in legislative terms and amendment 1.855 serves to say that those who are against this law invoke the therapeutic alliance and say that we would need a register. Even the proposers of this law have noticed that it is wrong, so much so that they want to put the register of the DAT in the budget law, which confirms a kind of bus on which to stick everything and the opposite of everything. I wonder, what does the DAT register have to do with the Stability Act? If you think it's necessary, colleagues in the Democratic Party, this is where you had to put it, without using the trick of the law of stability. One changes and integrates a law before it is passed: but is this how the laws are made? [[Applause from Senators Comrade, Fucksia, Rizzotti and Stefani.]] The students have gone away, but more will come and we will tell them again: a change is being made to the budget law that is still not there through the budget law that is not there yet. This is being done. Is this a correct legislative technique? I say this as an expert legislator: there is no doubt that we have seen everything, we could invoke precedents of every kind, but if there were precedents, they would be bad precedents, a form of legislative aggression, so I notice the error but I do not change it because we are at the end of the legislature (not at the end of life), I put it in the budget law, I bounce here the law and you no longer understand anything. It is not that a register is a trivial thing, because it serves precisely when you need to draw news and know what Guy or Caius has declared and who certifies it. A register is therefore imposed for a certainty, otherwise we proceed on the basis of one who says: that told me that, in the event of an accident, he would want to do so. Says who? The error is admitted, but then repairing one of the many errors in this way, aggravates the situation. I therefore call on my fellow Members, particularly those who are in favour of the law before us, to vote in favour of amendment 1,855 against therapeutic harassment, which should, in my opinion, be unanimous in this House. Amendment 1,855, which a number of colleagues, including other groups, have shared with me, represents all this.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-915.ana.u54	Colleagues, there is an excess of cards compared to the presences. I ask for your cooperation. Senator Caliendo, I'm asking you to extract the two abandoned cards to your left. Senator Mattesini, I ask you for the same courtesy: there is too many cards in your line. I refer to the nominal vote by simultaneous ballot of the first part of amendment 1,855, tabled by Senator Gasparri and other senators, up to the words of the person. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). The remaining part and amendments 1,856 and 1,857 are therefore not included. We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 1.858, which is identical to Amendment 1.859.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-915.ana.u55	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-915.ana.u56	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-915.ana.u57	SACCONI (AP-CpE-NCD). Mr President, I believe that Amendments 1,858 and 1,859 contain the heart of the divisive reasons which have been expressed so far. In fact, these amendments would like to delete the concept of self-determination, which, above all, refers to a future situation and, therefore, not a self-determination that is expressed in a current and concrete condition. The concept of self-determination conflicts with the function of the doctor and with the possibility of cooperation between the doctor and family members, even in the absence of vigilance and conscience on the part of the patient. This is the issue that most opposes the two sides that have dealt with the measure that we are examining. It would be useful to listen to each other and to seek a compromise in this respect. I would like above all to point out that the affirmation of the absolute self-determination of the patient combined with a fragile register, such as what my colleague Gasparri referred to earlier, will reasonably determine the inhibition of many doctors, called to resuscitate a patient, to wait not only for the search for any early statements of health treatment, but in any case also to fear a reanimation activity from which could, unfortunately, result the outcome of a condition of cerebroles or however of persistent vegetative state. I believe that the effects of such a strict definition of self-determination will be to weaken the orientation to life of the Health Service and, in general, the orientation to life of the medical profession, which has already been subjected to frequent actions of civil responsibility. Here as elsewhere, in short, we really call for a synthesis. I realize that, probably, there are no conditions here, given the absolute determination with which this measure is to be approved, even in the absence of solutions to the obvious lack of publicity and certainty of the advance declaration of treatment, even in the presence, that is, of a regulatory vacuum that is to be confusedly filled, in the terms mentioned by Gasparri a moment ago, through the budget law. Attention, though: Divisive laws leave devastating effects behind. I believe in society and in the same public functions dedicated to health. I just hope that a different Parliament will have the wisdom that this Parliament does not seem to have, not even in this regard.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-915.ana.u58	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-915.ana.u59	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-915.ana.u60	Mr Giovanardi (PL-Id) Mr President, since these amendments are essentially identical to amendment 1,862 tabled by Mr Quagliariello and myself, I am speaking on the subject. I am sorry to have to talk about an extremely sensitive subject, but the amendments before us refer to the fact that we also regulate the treatment of minors with this draft law. When I say "minori" I mean a category that goes from newborns to people who may be eighteen years old. Well, we regulate it in a particular way - we will see it later, in Article 4 - that is, by letting the magistrate decide on the treatment to be used with minors, in the case, for example, of contrast between treating doctors and caregivers. I remember Luana Englaro's previous case-law. Actually, as we all know, there was no end-of-life arrangement in that case and, even if Luana Englaro had a simple vegetal life, it was nevertheless a life entrusted to the loving care of the nuns: they raised her, dressed her, carried her out, made her sunbathe. So, it was inside some kind of placenta where he lived a protected life. Well, bad: from this protected life she was thrown into an ambulance that took her hundreds of miles away: they put her in a room where, no longer feeding her, in a few days she died as cruelly as possible, removed from the hands and the environment that for years had lovingly assisted her. As I said in general discussion, I do not think it was much progress for Luana to leave her life, I repeat, even if vegetal: even a plant does not die not giving her a drink and making her dry. It would be against common consciousness to come to such cruel solutions. The problem is that in Italy, there are thousands of children in these conditions. Who knows the League of the Golden Thread, the Cottolengo or institutes like Caritas, knows that in those institutes there are specialized personnel and volunteers who follow children who have no chance of healing, who perhaps live a life only plant because they suffer from serious pathologies that do not lead them to death but that nevertheless make them live a life that, someone would have once said, is not worthy of being lived. Colleagues, the amendments we are examining say a very simple thing, namely that the State guarantees social and economic policies aimed at taking care of the patient, in particular those who are incapable of understanding and will and of their family. Children are incapable of understanding and wanting. So this amendment says that these children are entitled to support. But if this amendment does not become law and we continue to vote on the following articles - I ask not the Government, which is going back to Parliament, but to the supporters of this law - will we have ten, twenty, one hundred, two hundred, one thousand cases of Eluan? What happens to those who are two or three years old in an institution, in case the affidator or parents say they have to stop being fed and have to die? What's going on? Article 4 gives an answer: it is the magistrate who decides. It is exactly the case of Charlie Gard, who has moved and outraged the whole world, because in that case it was the parents who said: we want to continue the care for our son, because as long as there is life there is hope, because there are innovative therapies, but the magistrate condemned him to die. I would like some of my colleagues in the majority to explain to me whether what I have said does not correspond historically, with the case of Eluana, and whether, in the future, the rules we are going to approve should not be applied to hundreds of cases. We are not talking about people who, being conscious and of age, decide not to take advantage of the treatments, as already happens in Italy. We are not talking about people, adults, who decide, with the provisions of the last will, that, in the event of ten, twenty or thirty years from now, something should happen to them, not to be revived and not to be treated. We are talking about minors, people to whom these rules and laws apply without them ever being able to express their will. Will we make a leap of civilization in the sense that these children will be denied the possibility of living their lives? Will there be someone who will determine when life will be worth living or not? Will there be any court that will determine that those children must die in the form of an interruption of food and life support? I want answers to these questions because, as Mr Sacconi said earlier, there is this problem for children, but for adults there is no minor problem. As they say, in fact, the following articles, even in the case of hospitalization in the emergency room, with the doctor who says that with that stroke, with that head trauma, with that heart attack, with the resuscitation you can save the patient, in the case of contrast between the doctor and the affidator decides the magistrate. [[Senator Gaetti's comments.]] So, even in those cases, you'll end up in front of the magistrate. The magistrate will determine. And just read article 4, which says exactly this: in case of conflict the magistrate decides. And we'll see about that later, because it's time to end doing misinformation and telling lies: laws are read on the basis of what's written and it says exactly that, and that's all. This provides for the measure. He predicts it for minors and then calls him back in the confrontation between the caregiver and the doctor when they argue for DAT. Regardless of the fact that we are all involved, because, when a person is hospitalized with certain diseases, the first problem that the doctor will face is whether there are provisions of last will, before intervening. Of course, it must go to discard in all the Regions of Italy because, since there is no national register, no one is able to know in real time the will of the person who is hospitalized. This amendment is important because it sets, yes, a principle of civilization. In fact, to write that the Republic takes charge and guarantees social and economic policies aimed at taking charge of the patient, in particular those who are unable to understand and want to, that is, minors, this is a choice of civilization, not that of abandoning them. I shall therefore vote in favour of this amendment.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-915.ana.u61	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-915.ana.u62	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-915.ana.u63	Hundreds of thousands (LN-Aut). Mr President, I rise to support amendment 1,858 and to confirm what we have been saying for some time and that we have also said during the general debate. We ask for the abolition of the word self-determination for the simple reason that we know very well that in the philosophy underlying this subject there are two ways of thinking, as we have also said in general discussion: a way of thinking that speaks of the self-determination of one's life, what you are carrying forward, and another way of thinking, which is ours, which is that of the inviolability of life. The problem, ladies and gentlemen, is that everyone knows that when it comes to self-determination of one's own life, the direction, the consequence, the point of arrival is assisted suicide and euthanasia, and that is why you have declared all our amendments inadmissible when it comes to euthanasia. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group]] This is a law that leads to euthanasia, we have said it in all languages and we will go on saying it in all languages, and the word self-determination is the confirmation of what we are saying. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-915.ana.u64	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-915.ana.u65	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-915.ana.u66	ISGRO CHOLIPOTI' (FI-PdL XVII). Mr President, I apologise to all those who do not feel the same way, but it is clear from the speeches we have heard that the compulsion to suspend hydration and nutrition, if assisted, accompanied by a treatment of deep sedation, means euthanasia. I apologise to my fellow Members in this House, but with simplicity and clarity we must say what they are like: the suspension of hydration and nutrition, accompanied by sedation, leads to a veiled form of euthanasia and we are against euthanasia. I always listen with great respect to all those who think differently from me and I have also listened to my colleague and vice president of the Senato Gasparri, of which I have great esteem and whose reflections I always treasure. Today, however, I have not been able to understand one of your considerations today and, I am sorry, but it has led me to make a very heavy reflection, which puts me in great difficulty. I am referring to when he said that we must work in this House in a secular way, because this does not mean that each of us must forget our culture and our belongings. What I want to say clearly, in order to make myself understood, addressing all those who belong to the Christian or Jewish-Christian culture, is that when we talk about freedom of conscience does not mean that each of us can do, say and support what passes through his head, but that everyone is free to express his own culture of belonging. I am making this reflection because I feel very difficult and I do not know if I am actually taking on a proper role or an incorrect role at the moment, because when I hear that my God must be left outside the door of this Parliament, I get the chills, not because he wants to tell everyone else that they have to believe in my God, but because our culture of belonging must also take it inside this House and make our reflections, leaving the House free to express itself as it pleases. I would therefore like to reiterate my question (not in order to have an immediate answer from Vice-President Gasparri, but in order to have a help to understand): freedom of conscience within this House, what does that mean? I, who belong to a culture, can deny this culture of mine, can I deny my God at a difficult time when I must also give account to my conscience? Can I say, at this very moment, that my freedom of conscience frees me from having to vote against my beliefs? Can I vote for hidden euthanasia through these DATs that are being proposed to us? [[Comments from the PD Group.]] Mr President, I apologise to all those who do not think like me, but this is a sensitive subject and I need to ask myself, in the presence of those who do not believe and are atheists, but in the presence of those who believe and are believers in this House and who must explain to me what freedom of conscience means: does it mean to vote without any reference to their beliefs, doctrines or culture, or does it mean to vote in relation to their beliefs and roots of belonging? When, then, it is not clear today, Mr President, to vote on a law that leads to the legitimacy of euthanasia, can we pretend not to see, not to understand and vote on it? No, we cannot do that, because it is one thing to talk about what we have put on the agenda, another thing is to speak without distinguishing truth and falsehood. Falseness does not belong to us by culture: the truth belongs to us. On this subject there is a very delicate problem, which involves not only and exclusively what we will discuss today, but what the future will be for us, for our children and for our grandchildren. Mr President, I am sorry for the reflection I have made, perhaps heavy for someone in this House, but I was obliged to draw the attention of those who say they belong to that Jewish-Christian faith or even more simply to those who say they are Catholics, Orthodox, evangelists, perfectly convinced and believers.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-915.ana.u67	Have you made an explanation of vote in favour of the amendment? ISGRO CHOLIPOTI' (FI-PdL XVII). Yes, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-915.ana.u68	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote in dissent from my Group.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-915.ana.u69	I take note of that and give you the floor.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-915.ana.u70	CALIENDO (FI-PdL XVII). Mr President, we are voting and I was thinking that if someone goes to read the Reports of these sessions in a few years' time, he will ask himself: why does the majority of the Senate vote against constitutional principles and the Government itself returns to the Assembly? We also vote for some of the wrong things. In this amendment there is a sacrosanct principle that legitimizes the explanation of the principles already established in the bill. But there was a need for government intervention here. It is not necessary to remove the word "self-determination" which is part of constitutional principles; it is necessary to write by guaranteeing social and economic policies to the disabled and the disabled: only in this way are the constitutional principles to which the bill refers functional (from the right to life to self-determination). It should come to the aid of the Government by doing an operation of institutional correctness and clarifying the meaning of words. Self-determination means nothing if then it is not guaranteed to those who do not have self-determination because they are incapable and if they do not guarantee that help that the law does not determine or recall. That is the reason why I am inviting you: we cannot continue in this bald way. On the one hand, we are voting against, on the other hand, we are voting in favour, but without a minimum of debate, dialogue and explanation of the reasons why we are voting against. At this moment I am even inviting the Government, because the Government is returning to the Assembly when this amendment instead contains one of those arguments that would have favored and legitimized an intervention of the Government that was to clarify the principles: in this case it was to reaffirm, maintaining the word "self-determination." Without that specific specification, without clarifying the aspect concerning the incompetent, a nuke norm is approved. That is why I wonder why the Government is returning to this House and is not determined. The fact that we have to approve a bill without amendment... Senator Caliendo, you have to finish. CALIENDO (FI-PdL XVII). I'll finish. Even if we have to approve this bill without amendment, it is not possible to leave historians in a position to read the Reports of this House without the possibility of understanding the reasons why we are acting in a certain way.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-915.ana.u71	I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1,858, tabled by Senator Centinario, identical to amendment 1,859, tabled by Senator Sacconi and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B).
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-915.ana.u72	On behalf of the Assembly, I greet the teachers and students of the Liceo Linguistico "Sandro Pertini" in Campobasso, who are attending our work. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-915.ana.u73	Amendment 1,860 is not possible. We shall now proceed to the vote on the first part of Amendment 1,861.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-915.ana.u74	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-915.ana.u75	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-915.ana.u76	Mr Quagliarello (FL-Id-PL, PLI)). Mr President, unlike other Members, I do not believe that the problem in this House is the division between those who believe and those who do not believe. As proof of this there have been many colleagues who, in support of this draft law, have said that it has nothing to do with the right to euthanasia. Frankly, I believe that, if there had been an early declaration of will rather than provisions, this would have been more true even from a strictly lexical point of view. I also believe that it is more honest and sincere to understand those who, among the supporters of this measure, have said that it does not bring the right to euthanasia but the Italian way to euthanasia, that is to say, opens gaps within which euthanasia can in some way begin to be introduced. The amendments in question 1,860 and 1,861, which are now in the vote, would like to clarify the distinction and allow those who believe that a law on DAT is absolutely legitimate, because it is different from a law on euthanasia and even because the legislation under discussion would allow us not to make one on euthanasia, to be somehow consequent with this line. These amendments therefore establish a clear principle whereby there can be no right of self-determination of the person who pushes himself to violate the principle of inviolability and unwillingness of human life. For this reason it is proposed to openly recall Articles 575, 579 and 580 of the penal code and to clarify the prohibition of any form of euthanasia and assistance to suicide. It is also stated that medical activity can only be aimed at the protection of life, health and the alleviation of suffering. I believe that in this case we confine ourselves to this legislation and we also set out the fact that the doctor should refrain from extraordinary and not proportionate treatments, that is, from any form of therapeutic aggression. If the aim is to strengthen the prohibition of therapeutic aggression and to take account of suffering, it can be achieved without giving to those openings towards euthanasia that many suspect there are in this legislation.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-915.ana.u77	I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of the first part of amendment 1,861, tabled by Senators Quagliariello and Giovanardi, up to the words "I'm sure." (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). The remaining part and amendment 1,862 are therefore not included.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-915.ana.u78	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-915.ana.u79	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-915.ana.u80	Gasparri (FI-PdL XVII). Mr President, I would like to inform the Presidency that I was unable to take part in the previous vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-915.ana.u81	The Presidency takes note of this. Let us move on to amendment 1,5001, on which the 5th Commission has expressed an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-915.ana.u82	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-915.ana.u83	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-915.ana.u84	Mr Rizzotti (FI-PdL XVII). Mr President, I ask the House to vote in favour of amendment 1.5001, because it must be clear that we really want to take care of patients. A civil society task is to protect the lives of citizens, to provide them with all the means available for better healing or palliative therapies, and to ensure a dignified existence until death. At present, the State does not do so. We have seen what has been given for the caregiver family: practically the families of the disabled arrive about 7 euros a year. It's really shameful. It's a joke. The purpose of this amendment is to avoid heartbreaking cases such as that of the disabled person who had to go to Switzerland to ask for euthanasia because the State did not take charge of it according to its human and constitutional rights.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-915.ana.u85	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-915.ana.u86	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-915.ana.u87	SACCONI (AP-CpE-NCD). Mr President, I pointed out the request to speak because the amendment refers to another central issue in the context of the measure and I too had previously tabled an amendment whose text was in the same direction. Parliament seems to be about to adopt this solution in the light of the gap with the conditions of serious disability, while continuing to maintain a focus on social and health care expenditure mainly aimed at shipping. Yet, we have long had a national programme of outcomes, carried out by Agenas, and a ministerial decree of 2015 on the minimum efficiency parameters of health facilities. We would have to close down in the marginal hospital territories - there are about 200 - which constitute an immanent danger for people who, in a state of acute need, are hospitalized there. Their closure would not only lead to economies related to fixed costs, but above all would lead to less use of inappropriate shelters, because excess supply, especially marginal supply, tends to attract and increase demand. These resources would instead be directed to the territorial services, in support of home care in a particular way, or in any case in support of the demand of people in chronic need. We should therefore achieve those proportions between the macro-levels of assistance, which we defined as standard costs in connection with the law on fiscal federalism, which you well remember and which included expenditure on shipping at 44%, expenditure on prevention at 5% and a major expenditure in each territorial area, precisely for those services which are aimed at treating properly in particular people in conditions of disability, especially where the family wants to take charge of this condition. The measure under consideration is therefore proceeding with another choice, which I have defined as a waste. It is a choice that, more generally, wants to determine in the national health service a climate of renunciation to the search for life, even when it can be saved through the responsible role, in science and conscience, of the doctor, through that parameter that, with a word, we could call appropriateness, which instead will fail here, stiffening all the behaviors of the medical profession and subverting all the implant of the national health service, so far oriented to life.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-915.ana.u88	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-915.ana.u89	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-915.ana.u90	COMPAGNA (FL (Id-PL, PLI)). Mr President, it does not seem to me that Senator Rizzotti's amendment is irrelevant. Of course, it falls within the scope of those amendments which would like to expel the principle of self-determination from the text. At the same time, however, it is an amendment which shows us how unfairly the self-determination category has become of an exterminated latitude in the measure under consideration. A few minutes ago Senator Caliendo recalled, for the sake of proper legislative work, the good right and - I would say - the government's excellent duty to comment on the social implications of the amendment that we are about to vote on. Mr Sacconi even said that if it prevailed, but in the latitude of self-determination, the category of the waste, then, in terms of social policy, all of our health policy system would be to be re-discussed, redone and re-writed. From this point of view, the Government, to cover a friendly legislator who took the category of self-determination and dilated it to the maximum of the maximum, cannot be insensitive to its right-duty to clarify the social aspects of this choice. What was the focus of our debate last week, Mr President? What had divided those who opposed the bill? Just the role of the doctor, who here is furbestically incardinated in the freedom of self-determination. However - we have seen it in connection with the text of some previous amendments - if this freedom of self-determination also refers to persons who are not in a position to want, know, operate and understand, then it is only cynicism to invoke this width of self-determination. I would have restricted self-determination for the very reasons which, during the general debate, led Mr Manconi to extend it to the end. If I do not quote to the contrary, with great passion Senator Manconi said that here, in the end, the theme is civilization: who is it that decides? From him is claimed the maximum of sovereignism, in the sense of individual freedom (we are not on the ground of constitutional law). Frankly, I never thought of it like him, even when I was in the condition of a patient, heart attack, I don't know whether conscious or unaware; I never demanded to decide myself: my wife, my children, the doctor. This is the therapeutic alliance. This vulgar dilation of self-determination leads us to absurdity. You have denied this in the previous amendments, but a left who has a culture of the social state, how can he not have anything to say about the implications of Mr Rizzotti's amendment? Hence my vote in favour of amendment 1.5001. [[Applause from Senators Fucksia, Giovanardi and Liuzzi.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-915.ana.u91	Pursuant to Rule 102-bis of the Rules of Procedure, I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1.5001, tabled by Senator Quagliariello and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1,863 tabled by Senator Bianconi and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 1,864.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-915.ana.u92	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-915.ana.u93	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-915.ana.u94	MALAN (FI-PdL XVII). Mr President, I believe that amendment 1,864 is important, because it refers to the first paragraph of Article 1, which sets out the principles underlying the law: constitutional references, fundamental rights of the European Union and others. The amendment introduces an important clarification, otherwise the text before us would say that this law establishes that no health treatment can be initiated or continued without the free and informed consent of the person concerned. The clarification proposed by Senators Bianconi, Aiello and Formigoni seems indispensable to me: "Save emergency or emergency interventions". It may be said that it is obvious, but if it is obvious then let us write it down because in this case a principle is being set out. You don't think it's theoretical. In fact, there might also be the person who, for his reasons of strong conviction, actually wants to die or let himself die in that certain situation. Whoever, driven by an obligation, first of all, I believe, moral, is from the obligations of law (because I remember that the omission of rescue is crime), had to intervene to save this person, performing health treatments, without knowing her and without knowing where she comes from (the road accident is perhaps an extreme case, but there are other situations), on the basis of the statement of this paragraph, if there were not this clarification could even be subject to legal action because his freedom has been violated, in violation also of this paragraph. Frankly, that's the least I can do. We know that urgent action is considered obvious, but if it is obvious it must be written, otherwise what kind of principle it is, a principle that applies but not always? Urgentness is far from a strange case in medicine: what are first aid departments for? That is why I believe that this amendment should be approved.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-915.ana.u95	I inform you that a request for a vote has been received by secret ballot. The Presidency will consider this request acceptable in relation to amendments which will be voted on at the next sitting of today's sitting, with no time to assess the acceptance of the request. I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1,864, tabled by Senator Bianconi and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of the first part of amendment 1,865, tabled by Senator Centinario, until the word "cura" is used. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). The remaining part and amendment 1,866 are therefore not included. I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1,867, tabled by Senator D'Ambrosio Lettieri and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1,868, tabled by Senator Bianconi and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of the first part of amendment 1,869, tabled by Senator Centinario, up to the word "must." (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). The remaining part and amendment 1,870 are therefore not included. I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1,871 tabled by Senator Bianconi and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1,872, tabled by Senator Bianconi and other senators, identical to amendment 1,873, tabled by Senator Rizzotti and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I would like to refer to the nominal vote by simultaneous ballot of the first part of amendment 1,874 tabled by Senator Centinario, until the words "if there is no vote." (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). The remaining part and amendment 1,875 are therefore not included. I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1,876 tabled by Senator Bianconi and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1.877, tabled by Senator Bianconi and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1.878, tabled by Senator Bianconi and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1,880, tabled by Senator Bianconi and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of the first part of amendment 1,881, tabled by Senator Centinario and other senators, up to the word "subject." (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). The remaining part and amendment 1,882 are therefore not included. I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of the first part of amendment 1,884, tabled by Senator Bianconi and other senators, up to the word "ready." (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). The remaining part and amendment 1,885 are therefore not included. I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1,886 tabled by Senator Bianconi and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1,887 tabled by Senator Bianconi and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1,888, tabled by Senator Bianconi and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1,900, tabled by Senator Rizzotti and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of the first part of amendment 1,889, tabled by Senator Bianconi and other senators, until the words "This Law" are mentioned. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). The remaining part and amendments from 1,890 to 1,925 are therefore excluded. I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1,904 tabled by Senator Bianconi and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I would like to refer to the nominal vote by simultaneous ballot of the first part of amendment 1,917, tabled by Senator Bianconi and other senators, up to the words 'of the implications'. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). The remaining part and amendment 1,918 are therefore excluded. I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of the first part of amendment 1,919, tabled by Senator Bianconi and other senators, until the words "The Minister of Health." (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). The remaining part and amendment 1,926 are therefore excluded. I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1,920 tabled by Senator Bianconi and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1,921 tabled by Senator Bianconi and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the nominal vote by simultaneous ballot of the first part of amendment 1,927, tabled by Senator Centinario, up to the words of the patient. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). The remaining part and amendments 1,940 and 1,945 are therefore excluded. I refer to the nominal vote by simultaneous ballot of the first part of amendment 1,928, tabled by Senator Centinario, until the words "clinical chart" are used. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). The remaining part and amendments 1,934 and 1,944 are therefore excluded. I refer to the nominal vote by simultaneous ballot of the first part of amendment 1,931 tabled by Senator Centinario, up to the words "they are recommended". (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). The remaining part and amendments from 1,939 to 1,943 are therefore excluded. I would point out the nominal vote by simultaneous ballot of the first part of amendment 1,930, tabled by Senator Centinario, until the words "be informed." (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). The remaining part and amendments 1,932 and 1,942 are therefore excluded. Amendments 1,935 to 1,950 are unacceptable. We shall now proceed to the vote on the first part of Amendment 1,946.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-915.ana.u96	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-915.ana.u97	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-915.ana.u98	Hundreds of thousands (LN-Aut). Mr President, in this case too, the amendment is aimed at guaranteeing and preventing therapeutic aggression. We will continue to repeat it and repeat it during the examination of the whole measure: we are opposed to any form of therapeutic aggression. It's not fair that we get angry with patients. The adoption of this amendment will ensure that there is a ban on aggressive treatment.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-915.ana.u99	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-915.ana.u100	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-915.ana.u101	SACCONI (AP-CpE-NCD). Mr President, I would like to take the opportunity offered by this amendment and by other similar amendments to ask, in terms - of course - anything other than to disturb the progress of our work, to refer to the explanatory statement on the basis of which the Presidency considered all the amendments or parts of them which prohibit the use of euthanasic practices to be inadmissible. Since for many of us in this House the two points of rejection of therapeutic behavior are valid, on the one hand, and the rejection of euthanasic practices, on the other hand, I would like to understand - but I think I am interpreting the opinion of other colleagues - why the Presidency considers that all the content that explicitly forbids the practices of euthanasia cannot be voted on.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-915.ana.u102	Senator Sacconi, the same exception was raised by President Centinario and the answer remains the same. The same criterion as the Commission has been met and, in addition, the reasons given for it have been explained when I declared that they were inadmissible. [[Senator Sacconi's comments.]] Senator, a debate on eligibility is not allowed. I would like to point out the nominal vote by simultaneous ballot of the first part of amendment 1,946 tabled by Senator Centinario, until the words 'health'. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). The remaining part and amendments from 1,947 to 1,952 are therefore excluded. I refer to the nominal vote by simultaneous ballot of the first part of amendment 1,953 tabled by Senator Centinario, up to the words "Paragraph 2". (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). The remaining part and amendments from 1,954 to 1,956 are therefore excluded. I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1,957, tabled by Senator Centinario, identical to amendment 1,958, tabled by Senator Sacconi and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1,959 tabled by Senator Bianconi and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1,960 tabled by Senator Centinario. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1,961 tabled by Senator Bianconi and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1,962 tabled by Senator Bianconi and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment No 1,963 identical to Amendment No 1,964.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-915.ana.u103	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-915.ana.u104	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-915.ana.u105	SACCONI (AP-CpE-NCD). Mr President, many amendments are devoted to the therapeutic alliance, the coalition and cooperation between the patient, when conscious, his family members and, above all, the doctor who in science and conscience evaluates the appropriateness of the treatments and the same care of the person. The main reason for the dissent that we express is precisely on this issue. Once again, and I will insist as much as possible on this debate, the dangers that will arise also for those who will not present the Advanced Declaration of Treatment. Every doctor can only stop in the face of his own convictions, even in the face of what his oath, his science and his conscience would impose on him to do, not only because he will seek to see if there is an early declaration of health treatment produced by that patient, but also with all the concern of the possible consequences of a negative outcome of the resuscitation activity. Here we are questioning a fundamental profile of our entire National Health Service; we must be aware that here we do not only have the possibility for a person to give up certain treatments in advance, but something deeper and more pervasive. In fact, we have a Copernican revolution in our experience, as well as in our laws and statutes that govern health or social health companies. Here we question the function of the doctor and the orientation of the health service to life. The concern that arises is legitimate and concerns everyone; even those, the many, many who will not produce an early declaration of treatment. The concern, however, is more generally addressed to a society that, when it loses the meaning and value of life, will inexorably accelerate its path of decline.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-915.ana.u106	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-915.ana.u107	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-915.ana.u108	Gasparri (FI-PdL XVII). Mr President, Amendment 1,963 identical to Amendment 1,964, which has as its first signatory Senator Rizzotti, as Mr Sacconi has said, addresses a fundamental point of the debate that we have been holding for years: I am referring to the relationship between patient, doctor and possible trustees, family members. The bill before us brings in itself a series of problems that certify its inadequacy. In the previous speech, I pointed out that the same advocates of the law recognize its errors and limitations by proposing the register on the Declarations anticipated in the law of stability in the Chamber of Deputies; that is, while we are going to approve a measure, we certify at the same time, on a delicate point, the fallacy, the error and the lack of the law, proposing a non-secondary integration with a questionable instrument. As regards the role of doctors, which we refer to in Amendments 1,963 and 1,964, I would like to point out that this is being trampled on. On the one hand, there is a denial of conscientious objection, so the doctor is obliged to behave that could legitimately conflict with his conscience. But how? In all areas, freedom of conscience, the freedom that Members themselves must have on matters such as these, is rightly invoked, and the freedom of conscience is denied by law to the doctor. Already this is a wrong and unconstitutional way of lawmaking, which will lead to disputes when doctors, even in the face of a discussion on individual cases, will have to decide on the conditions of the person, whether life can continue, whether the conditions are acceptable or not. Therefore, a doctor should be able to disregard the law for reasons of conscience, high professionalism and the way in which he intends to carry out his activity as a doctor, which is an uncommon activity since on this depends the destinies of each one of us when relying at any stage on the cares, therapies and hands - in case of operations - of a doctor. With this proposal, therefore, we call for a fundamental fact. Moreover, the fact that the role of the doctor is torn down by this bill also confirms the fact that in article 1, paragraph 6, there is a sort of exemption of the doctor from civil and criminal liability. The exemption would have no reason to be, in fact, if we did not imagine any civil and criminal liability. So are we facing euthanasia or not? And if it is not euthanasia, why then would it be necessary to say that the doctor is free of responsibility? A law exempts a doctor who has the responsibility for the choices; in the face of concrete cases it is the law that says that that is free of responsibility. In short, we enter a really complicated, questionable and questionable sphere. Before, Senator Scilipoti Isgrò also rightly recalled other types of dimension of reflection, but I do not evoke them, Senator Scilipoti Isgrò, to avoid strengthening these arguments with other reasons. I stick to speeches of a medical, scientific, health and life protection nature, which is a subject that must not only be a matter of believers but of everyone. I am a believer, but I believe that even an atheist must be compared on the fundamental themes of life - how it is born and how it ends - and of parenthood. We discussed other measures on other occasions: how a child is born and what the physical genesis of birth is. Natural law is called such because it takes back from nature what happens according to natural principles; it is certainly not the law that decides how children are born. Some people think this should be done too. We therefore believe that there is a dangerous ridge on various subjects for which dark and opaque legislation must decide everything, even with respect to the role of what we have called the therapeutic alliance. I do not want to insist on concepts already outlined, but this draft law - which we hope will be amended - raises important issues: it has gone through various legislation and has discussed it within all the parliamentary parties and groups. I myself, who am opposed to this measure, take account of reasons which have emerged - even different from those which I am pursuing - that with other colleagues we have recorded being prevalent in our Group. When I spoke earlier about the amendment against therapeutic harassment, which you rejected, I supported a principle that should defend those who want this law and therefore say that, at some point, life goes away. There is also a contradiction: in fact, you do not want a more precise no to therapeutic aggression, than those who are against this law, in other respects, instead, consider to ban. In these amendments, which you will certainly not approve, we are talking about informed consent, the treatment relationship, the relationship between patient and doctor and also a relationship in which family members and a possible trustee are involved. I believe that there should be a reflection on these issues. The debate on this measure is not a matter of urgency: We leave, suspend and end at 6 p.m.; then Thursday at noon... No, it is a fundamental decision, on which we know there are so many doubts that even those who vote most enthusiastic, at the same time, intend to correct it in the House. Therefore, our criticisms are very well founded and on this aspect I insist, because the ridge of the exhaustion of the relationship between life and death is that. Before you also rejected another amendment that Senator Rizzotti had tabled citing International Conventions in which it is stated that hydration and nourishment are not medical procedures, but must be administered as long as they can activate physiological reactions (it is obvious, then, that at some point that phase also runs out). But you have also voted against science, and that is even more serious, Mr Scilipoti Isgrò. Of other plans, in fact, it can be said that you do not share them and that you do not follow them, but when you come to the International Conventions and the deliberates of science, the scientists par excellence should, more than us, conform to the principles of science, which are a dimension of human knowledge and human decision, not the only one for all, but certainly are an important aspect. Here you are also voting against science, medical science and the deliberations of international organizations. The obscurantism, which is sometimes attributed to those who oppose this law, is precisely of those who, in an ideological, apodictic and preliminary way, also vote against scientific deliberations. And I am surprised that the obscurantist front is so wide, when it should be less thick, to leave the decision on those phases of life to what I repeat is the therapeutic alliance, which we stress and relaunch also with this right and sacred amendment. I do not know what the outcome of the final vote on Thursday will be, even though easy forecasts can be made. I know, however, that the debate on these issues does not end here: they will be doctors and health professionals, in fact, to contest the unconstitutionality of the euthanasic obligation deriving from these laws. And no law, ladies and gentlemen, can turn into potential murders of doctors who do not want to adhere to this legislative principle: they will refer to the Constitution, to fundamental principles, and then who knows how the Court will decide. I therefore believe that there is still room for essential corrections to this law, if it is to be approved. This is one of those and we want to remain in the proceedings of this debate the reflection, the deepening and the sense of responsibility - I don't mean the wisdom - of those who make reasoned observations, not ideological, but certainly more scientific than the anti-scientists who also reject the international conventions on hydration and nourishment. [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII and the Senators Compañera and Quagliariello.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-915.ana.u109	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-915.ana.u110	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-915.ana.u111	Hundreds of thousands (LN-Aut). Mr President, I am voting in favour of this amendment, which goes in the same direction as what - alas - was rejected a few minutes ago, on 1.957, which refers to the therapeutic alliance between the doctor and the patient. Our amendments are of common sense: here there is nothing political, obstructive, technically not acceptable; they are all common sense amendments. These are amendments that could be adopted quietly, but - alas - we are at the end of the parliamentary term and, as we said in general debate, nothing will be adopted here. I am also saying this for those who are listening to us, who perhaps have hopes of dealing with these amendments. We will not vote in favour of anything. When we talk about the therapeutic alliance between doctor and patient, we ask above all the respect of the medical profession. When an individual becomes a doctor, he does not do it to kill people but to save them. In this case, with the measure under consideration that will authorize euthanasia, it takes away also that destination and the input that is given to the medical profession: that of trying to save life. This amendment goes in that direction. We are of the idea of voting in favour, but it will not go away, because we have already seen the average vote, and as a result we are only doing academy: we are witnessing and expressing our positions. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-915.ana.u112	I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1,963 tabled by Senator Bianconi and other senators, identical to amendment 1,964, tabled by Senator Rizzotti and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of the first part of amendment 1,966, tabled by Senator Bianconi and other senators, up to the words "sick person." (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). The remaining part and amendment 1,967 are therefore excluded. I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1,968, tabled by Senator Bianconi and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1,969 tabled by Senator Bianconi and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment No 1,970, which is identical to Amendment No 1,971.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-915.ana.u113	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-915.ana.u114	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-915.ana.u115	Mr Quagliarello (FL-Id-PL, PLI)). Mr President, I would also like to speak on Amendment 1,973. These amendments aim to correctly reframe the subject of informed consent as a prerequisite and not as a founding act of the relationship of care and trust between the patient and the physician. In the concrete experience that has been recorded so far, in fact, the informed consent, far from constituting the founding act of the therapeutic alliance has often been reduced to mere functional bureaucratic act, more than anything else serves to offer a protection to the doctor regarding eventual and future disputes. This reading of informed consent is reductive and misleading, because informed consent must be upstream of the relationship between doctor and patient, which must instead become a real therapeutic alliance and not, as this law would like, a mere legal and bureaucratic act made only of forms to be read and compiled. Mr President, these two amendments to our examination try to reframe this fundamental point and make it a real and live act, taking it away from bureaucracy.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-915.ana.u116	I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1,970, tabled by Senator Quagliariello and other senators, identical to amendment 1,971, tabled by Senator Gasparri and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I would like to point out the nominal vote by simultaneous ballot of the first part of amendment 1,973 tabled by Senator Quagliariello and other senators, until the words "is part." (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). The remaining part and amendments from 1,974 to 1,976 are therefore excluded. I refer to the nominal vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1.972 tabled by Senator Romano and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1,977, tabled by Senator Rizzotti and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 1.5004.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-915.ana.u117	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-915.ana.u118	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-915.ana.u119	Mr Quagliarello (FL-Id-PL, PLI)). Mr President, I would also like to speak on the following amendment 1.5005, because these two amendments are based on a correct definition of the relationship between doctor and patient, the so-called therapeutic alliance, which must be determined in the process of drafting the DATs. In particular, this is motivated by the fact that even in an extreme situation in which the subject, that is the patient, is no longer able to express himself, the relationship of trust that binds him to his doctor - sometimes from birth - is realized in the doctor's duty to give all the care of the end of life, always acting in the exclusive interest of the patient's good. One cannot fail to take due account of the fact that the early statements of treatment are certainly an expression of the person's freedom to express his/her own guidelines on the health treatments to which he/she must be subjected in the event of being in a position of inability to understand and want but, at the same time, deprive him/her of the possibility to contextualize and to actualize his/her choice. The right of self-determination, in order not to become tyrannical constraints on itself, must always leave a window to revision and even contradiction. This is especially true when the person refers to a state he does not know, of which he has not had experience. We know that freedom also comes from an actual experience. Otherwise, if this fact of experience is not taken into account, freedom is transformed into what has been appropriately defined by some philosophers " fatal presumption"; fatal presumption of being able to determine one's destiny once and for all, without taking into account the changes, transformations, surprises, wonders that life can reserve every day. This concept of freedom open to the empire and to the relationship, and for this reason never absolute, interprets, Mr President, an idea of secularism common to believers and non-believers. If it is true that for a believer life is open to any determination to the end, it is equally true that for a liberal layman the future is open by definition; if you close it, if you tie it to an early declaration, maybe even for many years, in reality you end up contradicting the very idea of freedom. With these two amendments we have understood that the concept of therapeutic alliance represents the possible translation of this concept of freedom, giving the patient the autonomy to direct his therapeutic choices in a context unknown to him, and to the doctor the responsibility, in the given situation, to update its indications. In this context, the doctor may make the most appropriate decisions for the patient, taking into account carefully his/her will in the light of new circumstances which may have arisen and always in application of the principle of protection of health and human life, in accordance with the principles of precaution, proportionality and prudence. Mr President, since the amendments - let us say this - on the prohibition of euthanasia have fallen, this conception of patient freedom and the responsibility of the doctor, in our opinion, translates the exact boundary between the expression of early declarations of will and instead a more rigid conception that, by force of things, ends up invading another field, that of euthanasic treatments. [[Applause from Senator Fucksia.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-915.ana.u120	We greet the students of constitutional law of the LUMSA in Rome, who are attending our work from the forums.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-915.ana.u121	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-915.ana.u122	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-915.ana.u123	ROMANO (Aut (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT)-PSI-MAIE). Mr President, I would like an update on my amendment 1,972. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. He's already been rejected. ROMANO (Aut (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT)-PSI-MAIE). But I had raised my hand so I could intervene. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator Romano, I saw you when I came to Amendment 1.5004; I hadn't seen you before. ROMANO (Aut (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT)-PSI-MAIE). I'm sorry, but I raised my hand. As an amendment of mine, I had a special... PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. If everyone were to talk about their own... how would I know? ROMANO (Aut (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT)-PSI-MAIE). Mr President, I thank you for the welcome you have given me, and I also thank your staff, because I had raised my hand and I had every right and title to speak on an amendment of mine. I will of course reserve the right not only to express my dissent (which I already express immediately and officially) but also to be present carefully and also to ask for your attention when there are amendments in which I would like to speak. Thanks again. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. To you.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-915.ana.u124	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-915.ana.u125	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-915.ana.u126	SACCONI (AP-CpE-NCD). Mr President, I would like to speak about these and subsequent amendments, one of which I signed first, Amendment 1,982, always with reference to the relationship between doctor and patient; a relationship which, although necessarily based on mutual trust and respect, cannot be symmetrical. It is in fact the patient who entrusts himself to the doctor and not vice versa, while it is the doctor who has a precise responsibility to the patient, in accordance with the code of ethics. In this case, instead, an inverted asymmetry is determined: it is the patient who expresses a binding order in advance and the doctor is called to execute it and it is precisely on this point, as my colleague Quagliariello said earlier, that we consume the border that leads us to euthanasia. The history of the parliamentary examination of this measure is very strange, in which many in these classrooms and outside them see significant elements that lead to euthanasic practices; however, we are not allowed to express an explicit vote against them, so as to define an unsurpassable stake, the one proper to euthanasia. It has been said much outside of these classrooms, even authoritatively, that we must avoid both therapeutic aggression and euthanasia, but in here we are not allowed to express a vote that allows us to clarify a will that at least in theory is also of many of those who support the measure under consideration, that is to say that we want to be opposed to euthanasic practices. When the doctor is reduced to mere executor, when in his activity he is deprived of all reference to codes of ethics, at that moment he determines this sort of absolute sovereignty of the individual, of which a few years ago he spoke critically an indisputable liberal like Senator Companion, and then he chooses the way of self-annihilation of the person, which in my opinion becomes self-annihilation of the entire society.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-915.ana.u127	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-915.ana.u128	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-915.ana.u129	Gasparri (FI-PdL XVII). Mr President, we are on one of the fundamental points of the debate that we want to draw attention to and highlight. We have already talked about everything that is happening in the medical profession. I am a journalist and not a doctor, but I believe that there are many doctors in this House - as is normal - who know better than I do that even the code of ethics in Articles 33 and 35, which illustrate much better than my words the checks and behaviors that are part of the doctor's experience, is much clearer and better than the bill in question. We are therefore going against the international conventions, which an amendment by Senator Rizzotti recalled in reference to hydration and nourishment, but also against - at this time there are students who are observing us from the forums - the procedures of the legislative activity, waiting that we are correcting this bill, which has not yet been approved, with an amendment to the budget law which introduces the national database of the anticipated provisions of treatment and which should be approved. Since if you change this text in the Senate, then this must go back to the House and you do not know if you do it in time, you modify this bill with another vehicle currently under examination Chamber, that is with the budget law; this is a singular and unrational way of lawmaking. If one were to explain how laws are approved, it should be said that sometimes they become confused, anticipating in another law the correction of a law that does not exist. In this case we believe that the concept of the therapeutic alliance - we want to reiterate this - is the true foundation of the decisions to be taken. As I said before, each of us in life has had an experience in which the life of a relative or relative is exhausted and in which the doctor at some point put us in front of the bitter reality, after the care and after all that is done. So we all know that life obviously runs out and we have even asked for a ban on therapy in an even more explicit way and you have refused to do so. I therefore wonder why we now say no to the therapeutic alliance, which is the only true concept in which the family, the doctor, the patient or a trustee can make medical, health, quality of life, effectiveness or not of hydration and nourishment assessments, which when they are no longer able to activate physiological processes no longer make sense either. There is therefore an ideological fury that hides a will - then when we say it someone gets angry - to introduce a principle of euthanasia. So much so that then the doctor is told that he will not be liable criminally and civilly. Who said that? And where do you decide? Then there will be a law that will be passed by another law; there will be a constitutional principle that will be invoked by the physician's conscience. We are therefore making a law that enters into very delicate and complex spheres and opens a dispute, because there is not only the litigation that someone has opened in the past, obtaining pronouncements of the Supreme Court that have been arbitrarily interpreted, since even on striking cases that in the past have marked the Italian life and also the life of this Assembly of the Senate there would be much to say: judgments that were not judgments and pronouncements that were not pronouncements. Wrong laws pave the way for worse judgments and even greater uncertainties. It's just that we're talking about people's lives and deaths. It is then much better to call to the therapeutic alliance between those who have the competence - in the case of the doctor - and family members and other persons who can take curative decisions than this legislation that will open the way to euthanasia; then there will come some judgment, then some dispute and then, as happened for other matters equally relevant and delicate, will go all before the Constitutional Court that perhaps "pracic the euthanasia" on a wrong law, in that case acting legitimately. So we invite you to vote in favour of the principle of the therapeutic alliance in order to entrust to the common sense, competence, science and conscience of doctors and family members the decisions that must be made, instead of imposing by a law of the norms that go against the penal code, so much so that they say: who will do it, is not guilty. We already know, of course, that not everything fits. Lawmaking like this is very wrong, dear students. I know that we must not address students, but the Presidency, but in addition to making the visit, in this way they also deepen the way in which laws are made and these are very questionable and wrong, as a method even before on the subject, dear President. [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-915.ana.u130	I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1.5004, tabled by Senator Quagliariello and other senators. (The results of the vote do not appear on the scoreboard.) Let's try again with the simulation of a support vote to see if we can unlock the system (the results of the vote do not appear on the board. The system is blocked). Nothing to do, the system's broken. This is a subliminal message from the electoral voting system to lead us to more meek advice. In view of the current malfunction of the electronic ballot system, I shall cancel the vote on amendment 1.5004 and suspend the sitting. Obviously, having already been put to the vote by electronic roll-call vote, the request for a secret ballot on Amendment 1.5004 will not be accepted. Appreciate the circumstances, postpone the continuation of the discussion of the drafts of law in title to other session. I also inform the members of the Committee of the Giunta per il Regolamento that it is convened in the adjacent Pannini room during the suspension of the work. I suspend the sitting until 3 p.m. (The sitting was suspended at 13.29 a.m. and resumed at 3.30 p.m.)
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-915.ana.u131	The next item is the statement by the President of the Council of Ministers with a view to the European Council of 14 and 15 December I note that, in accordance with the determinations adopted by the Conference of Leaders on Tuesday, December 5, 2017, after the communications, we will proceed directly to the explanations of vote on the motions for resolutions tabled. I call the President of the Council of Ministers, Mr Gentiloni Silveri.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-915.ana.u132	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I believe that we are all aware of the fact that, over the years, government communications for the European Council are an increasingly less ceremonial and more important moment, and not only because the debate and discussion that take place in Parliament are of great importance to the Government, but also, in general, because of the importance that often takes place at the meetings of the European Council. At the meeting to be held on Thursday and Friday, decisions will be taken on some fairly significant issues and, above all, a debate will begin or continue on issues that are absolutely crucial for the future of Europe, so there is a little bit of a double track between particular issues, on which the European Council will decide, and very general issues, on which it will continue or start discussions. I think the stakes are particularly high. In fact, following very quickly what has happened over the last two years, we have had a 2016 with a double shock for the European Union and for the European project: there have been the results of the British referendum and, in some respects, also the result of the American elections, which have shaped in a different way the relations between Europe and its historic and current main ally. It could then be said that 2017 was the year of the response to this double shock, of a resumption of hope and commitment from the point of view of the pro-European momentum, with some decisions, meetings and with some electoral results. Now we are on the eve of 2018: a year that can prove decisive because in the end we will see whether, from the European awakening of which we have been witnessing in the most diverse forms during the year that is ending, we will move to a stage of concrete steps towards the implementation of some of the declarations, inspirations and projects that have felt in recent months; or if we will be condemned a little 'to a year of surplus, because of the duration, longer than expected, of the negotiation for the formation of the new German Government, as well as because of the waiting for the elections in our country or, in general, for lack of determination, courage and unity by European governments. I believe that Italy has every interest in avoiding this risk, that is to avoid the risk of a 2018 in which the perspectives, horizons and ambitions that have manifested themselves in recent months end up being disappointed. And, therefore, it is important that we go to these discussions with rather clear, determined and defined purposes and ideas. I take a step back simply to inform the Senate of the issues, however limited, on which decisions will be made, before moving on to the more strategic ones to which Italy will bring the positions of our country. The main decision on Friday will be the adoption of the results we consider to be positive in the first phase of the negotiations with the British Government. A year after the referendum, the majority decision, which we have of course always considered with respect, of the UK electorate to leave the European Union was certainly a shock to us, but it has created very important problems from every point of view, political and economic - certainly we have no pleasure in registering them - to the United Kingdom itself. It was the peak of a crisis phase. It was a wake-up call for the European Union and what happened in the following year and a half did not help to spread divorced attitudes in Europe. It does not seem to me that the outcome of the British referendum and what happened to the United Kingdom after the referendum there was a great spread of anti-European positions and wanted to imitate that solution and that result. On the contrary, today there are obvious difficulties in the United Kingdom, to which we must look with the respect that is due to a country friendly and Italy's ally on many occasions in recent history and, however, noting that the choice to go out was really difficult. The negotiations have achieved sufficient progress. This will be enshrined by the European Council on Friday in the three dossiers on the agenda of this first stage, as you already know. First of all, there are relations with the Irish question. It would have been very dangerous for the exit from the European Union to rekindle the Irish issue. There has been a definition that there will be no border controls between Belfast and Dublin or between Belfast and London. It will not be easy to translate this choice into concrete practices, but I think it is an important result. Secondly, perhaps the most difficult debate for the British public on the amount of money that the United Kingdom owes to the European budget has been resolved. And it has resolved to the full satisfaction of the negotiators of the European Union because - without going into detail on the figures - it has recognized the British commitment to match everything that is due to the European budget, including the European Investment Bank and other agencies with some very limited exceptions, on which the debate continues. Thirdly, the question of the status of Community citizens residing in the United Kingdom, recognizing their acquired rights and also declaring a willingness on the part of the London Government to make the transition from one status to another as easy as possible - perhaps most of our fellow countrymen, some hundreds of thousands of Italians living in the United Kingdom - has been resolved. Therefore, there will be automatic conversion of the current residence documents into new certificates; one of the apparently marginal but most relevant points of the discussion. Here too there are some secondary aspects still under discussion, but I believe that they will be resolved. However, we must be aware that the second stage of the negotiations with London will not be simpler but more complicated than the first stage. As always, divorces are more difficult than marriages and, in this case, it is clear that defining relations between the Union and the United Kingdom as a third country will be a very complex operation from a legal, technical, economic and administrative point of view. I believe that we Italians must prepare ourselves for this exercise with the attitude of friendship that we have always had, defending our national interests, but knowing that the path of the no-deal, of not finding an agreement and leaving everything to the rules of the World Trade Organization, would be a negative and dangerous fallback. It is therefore in the interests of Europe and our country to reach an agreement. This will be an agreement that will most likely have two distinct phases: a transition phase, a couple of years, from the fateful date of 29 March 2019, in which the United Kingdom will be separated from the European Union and then there will be a new regime of relations between the Union and the United Kingdom. It is good, however, that the first phase has ended with satisfaction from the European negotiators and with a degree of unity from the 27 countries of the Union absolutely remarkable. If someone therefore thought that he could manage this negotiation by relying on divisions between the countries of the European Union, he has mistaken his own accounts and, from this point of view, the attitude is very positive. With regard to the other two decisions to be taken at the European Council, the first concerns the defence sector, enhanced cooperation in the field of defence and the launch of some joint industrial defence projects. It will be a decision in some way solemnized by the European Council. If I were to say that it is a decision in itself worthy of Europe's geopolitical demand in the world at this moment, I would objectively go a little beyond the reality of these decisions. We are always talking about first steps, although positive and encouraging; encouraging above all from two points of view. Firstly, we are talking about joint industrial projects. We are moving forward on a number of matters, and I am thinking, for example, of shipbuilding and the agreement we made a few months ago. And on the other hand, this agreement, called Pesco in jargon, for enhanced cooperation on defence, concerns a number of countries and not all 27 or 28 of the European Union. It is a first and significant translation into practice of a principle that we affirmed in the Rome Declaration of March last, namely that in the family of the 27 or 28 countries it is possible, indeed it is necessary, in some areas, that there be different levels of integration. The European Union cannot be forced in all matters to march at the speed of the 28th car. If there is a group of countries - in this case it is almost twenty - that decides, on the ground of defence and also of geopolitical role, to take a longer step, it is positive that it happens and of course Italy is always within these more advanced formats. The third and last major decision taken by the European Council concerns the field of culture, education and education, where a debate took place at a recent summit in Sweden at the initiative of our country and France. It has led to a number of concrete decisions which will be taken at the European Council, and which relate to certain matters which are part of one of those driving forces of the Union and of European cohesion, which we may be discussing less, but which for the public, and in particular for young people, often represent the very essence of the European Union: the challenge of education, the cultural challenge. The decisions that the European Council will take concern: firstly, multilingualism, with the choice to standardise in all EU countries the presence, in addition to the mother tongue, of at least two foreign languages in the different education courses; not marginal, important decision, which also offers prospects for the spread of our language, among other things, in several European countries. Secondly, the Italian proposal concerns the establishment of a European Student Charter, which will be built together and give access to various facilities, especially for cultural institutions and mobility. Thirdly, it concerns the allocation of much more significant funds to the Erasmusplus programme and, finally, the identification of a network of European universities, which will initially be a network of convergence between European universities, rather than the establishment of ex novo excellences, but which within it will also have support for universities which already play a role at European level. The starting point is that we have excellent universities on our European continent, and we also have excellent universities in Italy. But if we put together the forces and competences, perhaps we can have levels of excellence in universities that are currently not so immediately attainable, and in any case are reached either by individual European countries (the United Kingdom) or by the United States, China and other major global players. Europe can and must play a greater role in this respect. I believe that we must be proud of the fact that our country, as always, is a bit of a pioneer on these issues, as a tread and plays the role of one of those countries that is more convinced that the dimension of the European cultural Union, education and education, is fundamental if we are to talk about the spirit that must animate the Union's project. In addition to the decisions I have just presented to you, the European Council meeting will have on the agenda a debate that continues - these are discussions that have been going on for some time - on migration issues, on which it is very important that the Senate be informed and spoken through discussion in this House. At the same time, there will be the start - this is the start of a debate - of a debate on the prospects for European monetary and banking union and on all aspects related to it. On migratory policies, the point of departure - as far as we are concerned - is that Italy, and not today, is more than ever presented with the cards in order and with its head high on the European debate on the migration issue; cards in order and head high that derive, quite simply, from the results that we have managed to achieve at this time. And these results would be recognized if there were an epidemic of intellectual honesty: which I do not hope, because epidemics are always dangerous. REPETTI (Misto-IPL). It is the only epidemic we hope for! Mr Gentiloni Silveri, President of the Council of Ministers. They are so evident that they should be recognized by all countries; supported - it is time to support them - and proudly claimed by our country. They were found, first of all, on the numbers of arrivals. You know that the arrivals of migrants in our country have been reduced annually by 33% and have been reduced in the last five months, from July 1 to today, by 69 percent. Translated in real terms, this decrease from 1 July to today (sixteen out of seventeen) means a reduction of 80,000 units - I repeat 80,000 units - a result that, only to predict it a few months ago or a year ago, would have been frankly unthinkable. Is that an isolated result? I don't want to make it long. You know that it is the result of enormous work: diplomatic work; the construction of capacity of the Libyan Coast Guard; the work of bilateral relations with the Libyan authorities, the work of relations with local communities, militias, forces present in that territory; work on the southern borders; work with the countries of origin or transit. Behind these figures there is not a magic wand, but the very important work carried out by the Government in recent months, which we must claim head to head because the whole world is aware of it. [[Applause from the PD, AP-CpE-NCD and Aut groups (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT) - PSI-MAIE and Senator Repetti.]] The part of this work on which we are strongly insisting today is that part that concerns the conditions of migrants who are in Libya, because something very simple has happened. The fact that Italy has moved, has made a bilateral treaty with Libya and has achieved the results I was talking about, has had among its positive consequences that, finally, the spotlight on the human rights situation in Libya has turned on. It's because of us. It is not due to someone who today tells these things as if he had discovered an unpredictable reality! [[Applause from the PD, AP-CpE-NCD and Aut groups (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT) - PSI-MAIE and Senator Repetti.]] It is thanks to the agreement and treaty between Italy and Libya that today the United Nations organizations are able to be present and intervene on the Libyan territory. It is thanks to the bilateral treaty that today the International Organization for Migration, which is the UN organisation that deals with economic migrants, has brought the voluntary returns assisted by Libya to other African countries by the figure of just under 3,000 last year to the figure of over 15,000 this year; and it could exceed the figure of 20,000-25,000 by the end of the year. Multiplyed by ten the work of voluntary returns assisted by the IOM to Libya. [[Applause from the PD, AP-CpE-NCD and Aut groups (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT) - PSI-MAIE and Senators Buemi and Repetti.]] At the same time, arrivals from transit countries in Africa have decreased. In my opinion - I have witnessed this in both the past years and the last few weeks - there has been an extraordinary assumption of responsibility on the part of many African governments in realizing the situation. In this, the denunciation of humanitarian conditions in Libya has also had a positive impact, because it has created a shock effect in African governments. Africa is a continent that bases its identity on the rejection of slavery. And, therefore, think what it can mean, in a continent like that, to see the images circulated in these months: it has caused a change of attitude. Several countries, which understandably hold a significant part of their economy on the remittances of migrants, struggle to tell their communities and their public opinions that return is made, especially if they are not volunteers. And yet, in recent weeks, again, thanks to what we have been able to start in our relationship with Libya and Africa, they have opened the way - as has been seen at the summit in Abidjan between the European Union and the African Union - to the undifferentiated possibility - certainly not flagrant, because it will never be an element of consensus within their countries - of these returns. The question we are going to put to our friends in the European Union, in the course of the debate on migration issues, is whether these results - I say this proudly, but also, unfortunately, adding the word - are mainly the results of Italian action, even if they are economically supported by the European Commission, Germany and some other country, but certainly not by all the Member States, not even on the economic field, the time has finally come to invest all together as countries of the European Union. [[Applause from the PD,AP-CpE-NCD and Aut groups (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT)-PSI-MAIE and Senator Repetti]] I am relatively more optimistic, and not because they all suddenly became more cooperative, but because of what we have managed to do. I was struck by the fact - just to quote a figure - that the group of the four countries of Visegrád (Hungary, Czech Republic, Slovakia and Poland), which is the most distant from us, if we talk about the internal dimension of migration, announced a few days ago that it wants to contribute 35 million. This is a significant figure: if everyone, in proportion to their budget, gave such a figure, we would be able to accompany Italy's action with the necessary resources, and in this case they would be sufficient. This group of countries has decided to accompany Italian action in the external dimension with this appropriation and I have no hesitation in saying that I consider it a positive fact. This does not change at all our political and cultural position, it does not open any way to the idea that we can abandon that principle of compulsory solidarity with refugees that the European Union has declared and has never been able to implement. The Italian position does not change a comma from this point of view, and this must be very clear. At the same time, however, if we broaden our willingness to recognise the importance of what we are doing on the external dimension, I think it is very important. Let us therefore go to this debate, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, with the pride of being at the same time the country that sets a good example in Europe as part of its capacity to welcome and save human lives at sea and how serious, measurable defeats can be inflicted on human traffickers, and I hope that they will be stable over time. [[Applause from the PD,AP-CpE-NCD and Aut groups (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT)-PSI-MAIE and Senator Repetti]] This is Italy that we must have the pride to claim. Finally, we will also take the first tour of the horizon on a subject that will, like migration, be central to the European debate in 2018: the issue of the future of monetary union, of the Banking Union and the prospects that open up from this point of view. This debate, which at the moment begins on Friday morning and is expected to come to conclusions in the second half of June 2018 - I use conditional because I am already on the brink of pushes and trends taking a longer time, but we will see - begins first on the basis of proposals from the Commission. The Commission has made a package of proposals which Italy considers - as I have also said to President Juncker, appreciating the Commission's effort and commitment from this point of view - as a good starting point. Translated from diplomatic slang, saying 'good starting point' means that we appreciate the effort made by the Commission and consider that the issues that those proposals address are the ones that it is right to question today. We also believe that we can and should go further on these same proposals, aware - ladies and gentlemen, senators and senators - that a significant part of the European family would like to go further, not further, than they do. Already in the preparatory discussions of the European Council there has been a fairly clear discussion between positions that we could call center-nordic and positions that we could call Mediterranean, with different accents - to simplify - from this point of view. On the whole, however, I believe that we are still going to tackle absolutely decisive issues. It is crucial that a reserve mechanism be created - a backstop mechanism is called in jargon - of the banking union, which is Community and not entrusted to the decisions of individual states. This means - which we have not been able to use in the past few months - that, in the face of banking crises involving this or that country, there is a Community reserve mechanism which largely covers this possibility. The idea of a European Finance Minister is positive, but of course, provided that his task is to work for the convergence of the European economy and for growth, and certainly not to become a sort of controller of the accounts of the economies of this or that country and preferably of the countries of Mediterranean or southern Europe. This second thing would make us say: "no, thank you." A common budgetary policy should at last be accompanied by a policy which can finally also have its own resources at its disposal. And a committee chaired by Senator Monti worked hard on this a few years ago. The European budget can have autonomous own resources, which is fundamental to having an ability to invest in public goods, in common goods - everyone calls them as he prefers - Europeans. We need to have common European budget chapters that allow us to address issues such as migration, security and defence, and put in place social insurance mechanisms. Italy - for example - has proposed a social insurance mechanism against asymmetric shocks on the ground of employment, i.e. when a specific employment problem is created in a country due to a crisis. How beautiful it would be an instrument of this kind, financed by the European Union's own resources. It would be a fundamental contribution to convergence. Starting with the conclusion, the target is on the table, the themes are on the table. It is a matter of taking advantage of the very simple opportunity of the fact that, after a very significant economic crisis, the European Union, and the eurozone in particular, is experiencing a period of stable and widespread growth in all countries. Yesterday the OECD even said that this growth is particularly accelerated in two countries: the first is Germany and the second is Italy. It seems strange to us, but news of this kind has come out. I would not like to provoke unnecessary discussions: we are still below the European average of growth in 2017. The OECD report talks about speed and the pace of this growth. But this pace and speed are an encouraging fact for our businesses and potentially encouraging, if we work well for society, for work, for the social problems ahead. For what purpose do we use this favorable condition? What goal do we propose as Italy? What goal do we put on the table of the European debate as Italy? I don't know. Do we use this favourable situation for some further accounting measures which, at the limit, risk causing crises rather than healing and preventing them? Certainly not. The point is whether we have the strength and the ability to use this favourable situation to continue along the path we have followed in these years of compliance with the rules laid down by the Union, and to push the Union towards a more expansionary policy, more investment, greater autonomy of its budget, greater capacity for a common migration policy and convergence. This means that macroeconomic imbalances are not only those affecting deficit countries, but also those affecting surplus countries. And for the simple reason that not correcting the macroeconomic imbalances of the countries in surplus damages the entire European economy and in the long run also those same countries, because investing would serve the countries in surplus within them, as well as giving oxygen to the markets and investments on a European scale. In short, Italy is part of this season all in all positive from the macroeconomic point of view; then we know the difficulties we have at the social level, the problems we have to face and solve, far from me putting them in the background. At the moment, however, when we have encouraging data on macroeconomics, the Italian message is that we cannot stand still and miss this opportunity. We can't and we don't have to. And we will do everything at the next European Council to push the Union as a whole to seize this opportunity in a positive way for development and work. [[Applause from the PD groups]] , AP-CpE-NCD and Aut (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT)-PSI-MAIE) and Senator Repetti).
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-915.ana.u133	We shall now proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-915.ana.u134	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-915.ana.u135	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-915.ana.u136	MONTI (Mixed). Mr President-in-Office of the Council, I am in favour of your communications and I would like to highlight two consequences for Italy arising from the situation at European level that you described in a convincing way, in my opinion. The first point is Italy's attitude towards the European Union. Those of us most in favour of the European Union and who would like more Europe can draw encouragement from the evolution - which you have described in general - that has taken place in the last eighteen months after the vote on Brexit. There has been no spread of divorce attitudes - as you called them - and there has been a unity between the 27, in the negotiations with the United Kingdom, much greater than could be expected. It should be stressed, however, that the reasons for the relief that have led us to believe that the situation in the European Union was strengthening in several stages over the course of these eighteen months are not yet well established. This, partly because the best attitudes are due - as you have pointed out - to the most favourable economic situation, partly because - let us not forget - at every national election we stand with a tense ear and a careful eye to see what the parties do less favourable to the European Union and it is not that it is an uninterrupted series of triumphs for Europeans. Those of us who have more concerns about the European Union and the advantages that Italy would derive from the European Union, in my opinion, should reflect, because the course of Europe in the last eighteen months, particularly after Brexit, highlights very important lessons about Italy. Why? Many times we have heard - I believe in absolute good faith - that we must go to Brussels with another animus : negotiate differently, beat the punches on the table, keep always in mind and assert the threat that our country could get out of the European Union. We have seen the experience of Brexit, that of a country which has decided, in democratic ways, to leave the European Union. It is the country, with all due respect for ours and for others, with a greater historical capacity and ability to negotiate, as well as a great impact force, if it brings together its economic, diplomatic and political power; yet we have seen how an attitude that was initially bold and harsh has been resolved, from many points of view, in a dissolution of the position of the European Union. Let us try to imagine what would happen to Italy, to an Italian Government, if they were taken seriously - as is always the case with intellectual honesty - the proposals of those who say "let's hit the table" or "at the limit we threaten the exit from the European Union." We have been lucky enough to have a laboratory test in these eighteen months of what would happen in the face of such attitudes. The second and shortest consideration, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, concerns the start of discussions on the reform of monetary union, to which you have referred. In particular, he expressed a dilemma that I found very interesting when he said: what should Italy be aiming at? To have some extra accounting measures, which at the limit can make the situation of the country worse? Or do we have the strength and the ability to exploit this season, all in all positive (these are your words), to make a contribution to the reform of the eurozone good for Europe and good for Italy? It seems to me that you have no doubt in pointing to the second direction. Therefore, I would like to say to you that at a time when the Commission makes generous and articulated proposals such as that of the Minister of Finance for the eurozone, I do not think we can miss this very rare opportunity to assert - at last - the economic and political logic that is at the heart of Italy, that - you have repeated it several times - to give a dignity of treatment to serious public investment, monitored and verified as such. How could Italy surprise today (even with the current Government, which does not necessarily have a long-term perspective) others and vanish between France and Germany? Proposals like that of the Minister of Finance for the eurozone are all institutional, will take years and we like them. However, we - the country that has been the greatest beneficiary of flexibility in the application of the rules (then everyone has his own judgment on the use that has been made of this flexibility) - tell you: this is not the way, the shortcut on which Italy wants to proceed in the coming years. We ask you to permanently incorporate public investment into the legitimacy of the Stability Pact and we propose that in the future we all give up a flexibility that - we have seen it - is transformed, because of the inevitable political pressure that exists in every country, into more bonuses and transfers and less public investment. I believe that this is a contribution that Italy could take into account. Mr President-in-Office of the Council, I should like to end by thanking you again for your report. [[Applause from the PD Group and Senator Buemi.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-915.ana.u137	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-915.ana.u138	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-915.ana.u139	COMPAGNA (FL (Id-PL, PLI)). Mr President-in-Office of the Council, with regard to this first stage of negotiations with Britain, I too hope, as you suggested, that Thursday and Friday the European summit will be an obligatory and satisfactory reference point. However, recalling the path of Brexit, it seems to me that you have mentioned, with a literaryly brilliant image, a double shock that has been captured by Europe: that of Brexit and that of the election of Donald Trump. Of course, I imagine that the shock was to be understood in quotes because when they vote for great democracies, as both countries are, no result can be shocking. With regard to the relationship with Trump, I was somewhat shocked to hear from you today that everything except Israel is included in the broad agenda of the European Summit on Thursday and Friday. Frankly, it seems to me to be a gesture of great short-sightedness and little responsibility. In this regard, I use your image: the European Union must not be forced to march at the speed of the 28th car. That's right, but one thing is also true. I say this not to the Italian Government, but - if anything - to Vice President Mogherini, who yesterday, with bravado and some improper boasting, boasted a uniformity of positions of 28 countries. About what? On the worst positions, those of Unesco, which cost you, then Minister for Foreign Affairs, perhaps unreasonably, even for the sake of doubt, a repressing by the President-in-Office of the Council. The position of the 28 European countries in UNESCO on Jerusalem was stupid, shortsighted and also vile. We are not hiding behind President Trump's colorful and colorful initiatives. The Italian and European political line has been, over the last ten years, on this great problem, in our view, completely wrong. You consider it a shock - and perhaps you are right - that Trump won the challenge with Clinton; but you must also respect those Italians and those Europeans who considered it equally shocking for eight years, when opening up the United Nations section, to listen to the American delegation having as its priority the right to nuclear power and the related right to anti-Semitism by Tehran. We have not heard enough European positions in the past eight years. So let me review Thursday and Friday's appointments: a network of European universities. Mr President-in-Office of the Council, we have nothing against this, we are very much in favour of it, but we would be ashamed if this network of European universities understood what, with the pleasure of Vice-President Mogherini, in recent months, they have done acts of what they call anti-Zionism (but the borders with anti-Semitism are very shaky) against prestigious teachers and researchers of Israeli universities. Let us come to the other point: migrants. We are in opposition, but we share all his words about Italy's pride for having seen this flow reduced by 80,000 units. We also have a certain pride in seeing that in the international community there have been no lack of appreciation for the generosity of Italy. However, that is precisely why, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, I would remind you that there has been a report by Amnesty International for a few days now, in which I do not want to believe in a closed box, but on which the Government has the right and the duty to clarify. Italy is blamed for an excess of confidence in the Libyan national unity; Italy is given a pact of omerta with the Libyan Coast Guard; Italy is given a certain complicity in this orientation, worthy of the worst UNESCO, in having transformed these Libyan camps into fields of authentic torture. That is why, in wishing Italy to express its views, with great dignity, at the next summit on Thursday and Friday, we believe that this is not a particularly brilliant moment for Europe. If a chronicle is allowed, I wonder why Mogherini didn't say a single sentence about the attack in New York. Why so much satisfaction with this Palestinian peace, which we all know now means with Hamas? Why have you forgotten - and you want Europe to forget - that both Hamas and Hezbollah have, I believe, been included, since 2003, among terrorist organisations and not among the political partners of peace? [[Applause from Senator Malan. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-915.ana.u140	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-915.ana.u141	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-915.ana.u142	Hundreds of thousands (LN-Aut). Mr President-in-Office of the Council, first of all, I would like to thank you for the calmness with which you have spoken and, above all, for being here to listen to us, which - we remind you of as the Lega Group every time you come to the Senate - your predecessor did not get used to us. Thank you very much for your respect for the Senate of the Republic Listening to us. [[Applause from the LN-Aut and FI-PdL XVII Groups and Senator D'Ambrosio Lettieri]] Precisely because we respect your role, your presence and the fact that you are listening to us, we will not limit ourselves to the usual list of things that are not going to happen, but we will also make proposals because, since you will have to represent our fellow citizens and all of us in Europe, we would like constructive proposals to be made in Europe too, which will really make our country up to the meetings at which you take part. With regard to the defence speech, President, as we have done on more than one occasion, we continue to claim the national autonomy of the armed forces in the field of defence. Although it is right that there should be a defence of European territory, it is equally true that the territory of our country and national soil must also be defended and it is right that the Italian Armed Forces should do so. Let us say this because on more than one occasion we have seen that, at the time when we talked about European defence, European armed forces and defending or protecting the borders of Europe, on the part of the various European nations there has always been a different vision, which has consequently certainly led to different objectives, as well as different ways of working and working. That is why we continue to pursue our proposal. In the field of international relations, we believe it is essential that you go to Europe to ask further for the removal of sanctions from Russia, which we believe to be anachronistic today. This is not only the position of the Lega Nord Group, but of all those entrepreneurs who, with the economic crisis, saw their turnover massacred, while they could export and produce more income and more work. The sanctions against Russia are practically blocking everything and are still a brake today. As far as international politics is concerned, there is an important fact that has happened in these days, although logically there were many things. I didn't catch him in his speech, but it may be to your attention in the next few days that the United States has decided to move its embassy from Tel Aviv to Jerusalem. We have seen a surge of shields at international level, including by some European states, and statements of hostility towards the United States for this decision. We believe that Israel should be left free to decide its own domestic and, in particular, foreign policy on its own territory. Consequently, when the United States, together with Israel, decides that the US embassy should be moved to Jerusalem, they must be left free to handle this decision. In view of the fact that in the coming months there will be elections in Catalonia and given what has happened and which we have seen over the past few weeks in Spain, we are also convinced, Mr President, that Europe must discourage the use of force in the case of claims of autonomy or independence. Europe and the European states must become an important and reliable interlocutor, but we cannot help but use force when the citizens of a state want independence. This is what we say and we ask, in particular, when we see a strong affirmation in the vote of the majority of the citizens of Catalonia of the parties that refer to the independence of that area of Spain. With regard to culture, education and social issues, we are certainly on your side when you talk about the implementation of the Erasmus programme, when you talk about European universities and, consequently, we support it in this mission that you want to carry out. We are also of the opinion that rights should be extended in the Member States of Europe, but in this extension we believe that the Member States should be left independent. We are of the opinion that the resolution on children's rights of 21 November last at the United Nations should be taken into account, an important resolution which has been given little prominence. We are calling for this resolution to be spokesperson in Europe. President, immigration is our battlehorse. We talked about this on more than one occasion. We have also made proposals with your predecessor, but our proposals have remained unheard of by those who now occupy the role you had in the previous government. What you are saying and proposing are things that we have been proposing for months; with the proposals of the League we have filled out the sheets of Parliamentary Reports. Mr President, we are concerned that we have seen a resumption of migratory flows from Turkey, which had stopped in recent months, despite the fact that Europe has given millions of euros. We have seen a start of migratory flows from Tunisia and this frightens us because, if migratory flows freeze or slow down in Libya, we would not want Tunisia to start a new migratory flow to Italy. It leaves us puzzled and frightens us, since we have noticed that there are no reliable people coming from Tunisia. Very often ex-convicts and people who don't come to our country with flowers in their hands come from Tunisia. President, we believe that the countries bordering the Mediterranean should be more involved, but also the countries bordering the Mediterranean, such as Niger, where very important international cooperation policies have been made and which, in some cases, have been successful. We ask you to bring to the attention of Europe the best practices carried out. The question of return and those who are not entitled to the protection granted as refugees is unresolved. You cannot tell us that we are improving - then we will provide objective data - and that this is a matter that you have resolved. Alas, on our territories there are still hundreds of thousands of people who are not entitled to stay in our country and who should be sent back to their home. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group]] This is not evil; it is a matter of civilization and equity. The money that we spend to keep these people in hotels could be used better to accommodate in a more appropriate way those who run away from a war, those who really have the right to stay in our country and that we have the duty and the will to welcome. President, I remember you had to relocate 40,000 people. You only relocated 10,000. Let me remind all those countries that made themselves available for relocation. The Triton agreement, which was signed in 2014, could not be amended in the dark by Parliament, by its predecessor, Mr Renzi, and by Mr Alfano. It provided for all migrants gathered in the Mediterranean to be taken to Italy. This agreement must be changed and we cannot think that everyone is brought to our country because we cannot think that everything is on our shoulders. Mr President, there is something else that we are puzzled about, and we believe that this too must be brought to the agenda and must be brought to the attention of those who listen to us in Europe. Many of the migrants, often fake refugees, rather than being grateful to those who welcome them, sell drugs and rape our women and come to our country to do what they want. We cannot think that when they are taken and condemned, they will not be repatriated. President, at least repatriate them! [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group]] These people then turn undisturbed in our country and allow it is not good, not for us who are in Parliament, but for the citizens who live in the suburbs and in our cities. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group]] President, as far as return is concerned, I remember that you are repatriating 5,000 people a year, out of 700,000 who have entered our country. Minister Maroni, at the time, repatriated many more, with one tenth of the arrivals in our country. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group]] Again, a little more effort to be credible in Europe. Finally, I saw that you exalted the growth of our country. He is absolutely right, and everyone is growing, and the whole of Europe is growing. The problem is that despite Renzi, the jobs act and his government, our country is growing by 1.8 percent. Do not talk about our growth in Europe, we are growing by 1.8%, we are the third last in Europe; they would laugh at us. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-915.ana.u143	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-915.ana.u144	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-915.ana.u145	Mr Barani (ALA). Mr President, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, the next European Council will discuss the progress made in the matters at the centre of the so-called "leader's agenda," drawn up by President Donald Tusk, and approved by the Council on 27 October 2017, followed by a series of bilateral meetings between President Tusk himself and all the political leaders of the Member States, including you, Mr Gentiloni Silveri. The meeting took place on 12 October. According to the planned plan, which is due to end on 20 and 21 June 2019, this is the second summit to discuss Europe's defence, social and cultural structures, migration and, finally, economic and monetary Europe, as well as banking union. The latter, however, is subject, in accordance with the agreements made, to the realization of the new institutional arrangements that should arise in the Eurozone: the European budget, the European Monetary Fund, the establishment of a European Treasury Ministry and finally the incorporation of fiscal compact into the legal order. In the course of the work, finally, it will take note of the first results achieved for Brexit. There has been important progress with regard to the status of European citizens residing in English territory and the financial dispute over the previous debts of Great Britain, while the subject of relations with Dublin and any decisions on the status of Scotland and City remain in the background. With regard to the problems of defence, a common system must be set up as soon as possible to deal with the difficulties that can be seen in relations with the United States, both with regard to NATO, but above all with the most recent differences with regard to Middle Eastern policy, after President Donald Trump's decision to move the US embassy from Tel Aviv to Jerusalem. This decision, in fact, involves the recognition of Jerusalem as the exclusive capital of the State of Israel, in open contradiction to the European thesis that Jerusalem must continue to be the capital of the two states: Israel and Palestine. On social policy aspects it is necessary to take note of the differences that have arisen between the different Member States, in order to identify those policies that aim to overcome them. As the starting positions differ, it is therefore not possible to identify a single policy which does not take account of the underlying differences. According to the European Commission's own assessments, there are countries such as Germany, the Netherlands or Malta which have an unemployment rate of less than or close to 4%, which economists indicate below the frictional limit, while others, such as Greece, Spain which exceed or are close to 20%, and others such as Italy, France, Portugal or Cyprus which exceed or are close to 10%. It is therefore necessary to analyse the causes of these differences in values: if they are linked to structural facts (as appears to be evident in Greece), to poor macroeconomic competitiveness (as in the case of France) or to bad economic policies, such as in Italy, imposed by an excess of austerity that does not allow the full use of inputs, as is evident from the current account surplus of the balance of payments. On the problem of migration, one cannot fail to note Juncker's words that Italy has saved Europe's honour in the Mediterranean. Fair and welcome recognition, which, however, must be followed by concrete facts both as regards the distribution of asylum seekers and as regards the development of a European policy for migration zones - especially in Africa - in order to remove the social conditions which lead to such a dramatic and painful exodus. Europe needs to invest in these countries, which conclude cooperation agreements, as a counterpart to greater border control, which will help to strengthen the fight against traffickers by using the most appropriate instruments, including assistance and intelligence. The most important point for Italy, however, is the future of the Eurozone, especially after the latest statements by the President of the Juncker Commission. No objection to the need to strengthen the European institutions. This perspective is, on the contrary, the only way to halt its most recent decline and fill the gap that has opened up with vast layers of public opinion, many of which have lost the very meaning of being together. The subject is 'what institution', for 'what policy', Mr President. If this link is not clarified, the reform, although necessary, expires in simple constitutional engineering, which not only risks not achieving any result, but also produces even greater contradictions. It is good, therefore, to have a different budget, albeit in the reductive formula indicated by Juncker, as well as the European Monetary Fund, in place of the ESM, the Fund saves States, provided, however, that we do not think of a technocratic structure that exonerates the powers of the Commission in the overall assessment of the economic policies of the Member States. At the same time, there is no opposition to a Treasury Minister who can grasp the complexity of the European situation and identify those policies that are essential to put in motion the convergence process that the 2007 crisis seems to have interrupted. However, the proposal to include fiscal compact in the European legal system, albeit in a form that is not entirely precise, must be discussed with great determination, Mr President. Article 16 of the founding Treaty, signed by all countries with the sole exception of Great Britain and the Czech Republic, provided that after five years, then in 2018, an assessment of the experience gained would be carried out before proceeding further along the road of its incorporation into Community law. This phase cannot be bypassed. There are obvious legal reasons: the rules must always be respected, especially if they are particularly solemn in an international treaty; but they are the economic ones that require even more such verification, even if the European Commission does not seem to want to take action. In fact, it would have been appropriate to have an assessment of the (few, indeed) successes achieved and the (many) contradictions that have manifested themselves. A balance sheet has recently been attempted by some ECB economists. According to this study, the fiscal criteria, provided for by the rules of the fiscal compact, would have been respected only by five of the 29 countries, demonstrating how abstract certain formulations can be defined that consider certain aspects of economic policy as real independent variables, that is completely removed from a more general macroeconomic context. This is an error of method which inevitably leads to non-compliance with the rules themselves. It is therefore necessary, Mr President, to understand what has not worked. It is not a question of rejecting the rules as such. Financial soundness is a prerequisite for the containment of public debt, but so is the growth of the denominator, i.e. nominal GDP on the basis of which the ratio is calculated. If the real growth rate is too low, if price deflation takes the place of inflation, that ratio is not bound to decrease, but to grow, despite the austerity policies put in place. It is therefore essential to find the right balance between the developments in public finance and those in the real economy in order to reach the most appropriate mix to achieve, at the same time, more well-being and progressive financial consolidation, especially for those countries with a current account surplus of the balance of payments: a sign of an underutilisation of the productive factors existing within them, starting from work. Empirical experience shows that a uniform rule cannot apply to all economic systems and to all stages of the economy. France, for example, has failed since 2003. Its debt has always been above 3%, accompanied, however, by a deficit in the current account of the balance of payments. Spain, in turn, has been in infringement proceedings since 2009. Italy, on the other hand, is in an opposite situation. It has always respected, albeit with some difficulty, the financial parameters imposed by the European Commission. Its budget deficit was always lower, but its growth rate places it at the last places in the European ranking, its inflation rate is much lower than the European averages, its debt-to-GDP ratio, which does not seem to decrease, but with a balance of payments current account assets which is a multiple of its growth rate. Mr President-in-Office of the Council, the Government must therefore work in a direction consistent with the premises set out above, asserting the good reasons of a country, such as Italy, which in all these years has demonstrated, unlike others, its respect for the rules, albeit not shared; urging the banking union to do everything possible to overcome dilatory manoeuvres from wherever they come, in order to restore confidence to savers and to prevent the relative "unfinished" - especially the lack of European guarantee for depositors - from feeding public opinion the suspicion that Europe is not a truly democratic structure, but only a large market dominated by the law of the strongest. However, Mr President, our Group considers its communications to be valid and will therefore vote on the final resolution. [[Applause from the ALA Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-915.ana.u146	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-915.ana.u147	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-915.ana.u148	Corsini (Art.1-MDP). Mr President-in-Office of the Council, I would like to thank you. You always have a very polite, colloquial and anti-retorical statement, even if for this reason you are no less asseverative. Well, we are at the end of the parliamentary term and, therefore, from my point of view, the opportunity is favourable for a kind of reminder, starting from what seems to me to be a necessary methodological premise, to which we will follow some observations on certain thematic nuclei which we believe to be fundamental. The European Council meets on an ordinary basis four times a year. The Treaty stipulates that the President of the Council shall ensure the preparation and continuity of work, in cooperation with the President of the Commission and on the basis of the work of the General Affairs Council. If this is the procedure, then it is clear that the meeting of the European Council is the final moment of a political process against which little room is left for discussion or questioning what has already been decided or what has not been accepted. Therefore, I wonder, from the point of view of the procedure, what sense does it have, on the eve of and in the near future of the European Council, to define guidelines and indications that should be better approved at a previous time, when, to some extent, it is still possible to bind and direct the choices of the Government in the European context. This is not a note directly reserved for you, Mr President, but it is a more general consideration. We have listened carefully to your arguments. You have the merit of being able to argue, which is not small. It seems to me, however, that it has not sufficiently centralized its attention to three facts which seem to me to be absolutely significant in this political and international relations temperie: first of all, the choice of President Trump to recognize Jerusalem, which international law considers to be a shared city, in the Palestinian West and East, as the capital of the State of Israel alone, an act which, in our opinion, is irresponsible and harboring serious dangers for peace, an act which is not in line with the resolutions of the Security Council, which does not help - to use euphemism - a prospect of peace in the region, which risks fueling tensions, conflicts, counterpositions, even giving breath to new seasons, alas, of terrorist footprint. Moreover, it is a constant position of the European Union that Jerusalem must be the capital of both the State of Israel and the Palestinian State, so it is a commitment on the part of Europe and on our part to promote this process of Palestinian State building. The second antecedent on which you, in my opinion, flew over took place on 29 and 30 November in Abidjan: I allude to the summit between the European Union and the African Union, because if it is true that the African question will be the big, central issue of the 21st century, it is clear that this fact questions both our country and the European Union so that there is a strong commitment to investment in order to create economic opportunities and opportunities for work on the African continent. Well, at this summit, the treatment of African migrants was also highlighted, which in many cases - but I will return to this - are imprisoned, tortured, if they are women raped by human traffickers and often sold as slaves. There is a third aspect: the issue of Brexit and the agreement reached on 8 December, on which I will come to a conclusion. I have said that I will focus two or three points on issues that I believe to be central. The first is the issue of economic and financial policy proposals, the guiding compass of which can only be the theme of recovery and growth. It seems to me that a correction, a rethinking, a renewed decline in the theme of fiscal compact and the start of a rewriting that goes in the direction of a golden rule relating to investment costs and above all to expenses that allow the take-off of research, development and innovation. If it is true - and I recently presented with Valerio Castronovo a book on German foreign policy - that we are all for a European Germany and not for a German Europe, for example, the issue of a reduction to at least 3% of the maximum limit for each Member State's balance of trade and the introduction of sanctions corresponding to those provided for excessive budget deficits, it is, in my view, an absolutely fundamental issue if we are to aim for a rebalancing of roles and protagonists. The theme of recovery and growth cannot be foreign to the proposal for the issue of European debt securities guaranteed by all Member States and to the need to define a plan for the eurozone of public investments that have a high social significance and of redevelopment and restoration of the territory, urban outskirts, places of fragility and weakness, the replacement of buildings seismically insecure and energetic with green buildings. I could continue, but it is the issue of immigration which, in my opinion, has been the subject of an excess of optimism and a limit of realism. Two meetings with representatives of UNHCR and the International Organisation for Migration have recently been held in the Foreign Affairs Committee. Today we have heard of the Amnesty International press conference in Brussels, which defines and depicts a much more painful and much more problematic picture than what has been described to us. As an example, I could mention the issue of the immediate opening of humanitarian access corridors in Europe, to allow legal and controlled access channels through the countries of transit to refugees fleeing persecution, war and conflict, the commitment to put an end to the massacres at sea, the responsibilities of the Libyan coastguard, as evidenced by a video about the tragedy that took place on 6 November, where the shipwreck of Europe and a human civilization aware of their responsibilities is plastically depicted. I would like to point out that the rapid implementation of the relocation programme does not actually give us a positive assessment; however, there is a need to support it with the creation of adequate reception and assistance facilities. Appropriate sanctions must also be provided for countries such as Hungary, Poland and the Czech Republic, which do not respect European constraints. Certainly we have played a significant role in Libya. In this respect, I cannot deny the truthfulness of some of your remarks, but until full respect for dignity and rights is guaranteed, it is clear that agreements with those countries must be re-disputed, conditioned and, in the extreme case, suspended. The European Council will discuss the major issues of foreign policy. I was surprised not to hear a reference to Turkey and the role that the European Union must play towards Turkey in order to put an end to the repression against the democratic oppositions, the judiciary, the press and minorities present in the country. I see time as a tyrant, so I confine myself to one final line without going into the very intriguing and challenging issues of the common European defence policy and the development of culture and research policy. I mentioned the issue of Brexit. There is no doubt that the agreement that I referred to marks a significant step forward, but we will have to look above all at the condition of Italian citizens so that the protection of their rights is ensured. There are 600,000 Italian citizens residing in the United Kingdom and 3 million European citizens who have the same right of citizenship as us. We hope that Italy's commitment at the next European Council will also be very active, effective and operational in this area. [[Applause from the Group Art.1-MDP and Senators Bencini, De Cristofaro and Panizza.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-915.ana.u149	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-915.ana.u150	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-915.ana.u151	LIUZZI (GAL (DI, GS, PPI, RI, SA)). Mr President-in-Office of the Council, we have listened very carefully to your communications with a view to the forthcoming European Council. We have heard so many important things on a certainly significant agenda: the issue of structured and permanent cooperation in European defence, the conclusions of the Gothenburg Summit and migration policies; We also discussed these issues last October, with a view to the previous summit. Of course, the European Council on foreign policy cannot fail to discuss the new fact that took place a few days ago: I am referring to President Trump's statement to unilaterally recognize Jerusalem as the exclusive case of the State of Israel. We know that this declaration is not in accordance with the resolutions of the UN Security Council. It does not promote the prospect of peace in those latitudes and opens the scene of a diplomatic confrontation within the UN and the beginning of an arm wrestling that could last for a long time. The crisis in Jerusalem also questions Europe which, at the end of the visit to Europe of Jewish Prime Minister Netanyahu, records a distance from that decision, stating that no country of the European Union will follow the decision of the United States on Jerusalem, including the idea of transferring the embassy to Jerusalem. This crisis, however, ignites the already highly unstable Middle East, and it also finds in the statements of Russian President Putin, who in Ankara approved the anti-American campaign of Turkish President Erdogan, reasons for concern. The Arab League intervened at waterfall, Morocco threatened a worldwide mobilization on 23 December, Jordan - always a friend - does not give Israel permission to reopen the embassy in Amman, officially under the pretext of public policy issues. We do not know, at the moment, what the reactions of Egyptians and Saudis are, but even part of the Israeli Right is concerned not about the "if," because it is an almost unexpected gift, but about the "when." With Iran on the threshold, unstable Lebanon, reunited Palestinians, Sinai under check ISIS, we are wondering whether this is the time to follow up on an electoral promise. Although it is still too early to make budgets, the situation remains delicate and the risk is that the slightest incident will trigger further terrible violence. Hamas has called for a new intifada and, although the Palestinians seem to be struggling with constant impoverishment, both economic and social, and therefore not reactive to put in place a third intifada, the clashes that have occurred between Israelis and Palestinians to date must find us attentive and sensitive to what is happening around us in order to be catalysts and builders of peace, putting the European Union in a position to discern, to reason, not to marry fashions, but to be able to condemn equally and to confirm the State of Israel in secure borders. Here, the issue of structured cooperation of European foreign policies is becoming increasingly urgent. I also find it very interesting, Mr President, what has been said about the Gothenburg Summit. Here European construction has taken up the fundamental principles, paying tribute to the founding fathers of Europe Schuman, De Gasperi and Adenauer. The students of Europe, the university students of Europe, the researchers of Eropa, the teachers of Europe: we agree. To feel that the summit has sanctioned the principle that people are in first place seems to me a beautiful affirmation of humanism, totally necessary at a time, like today's, dominated by the primacy of finance and cold and depersonalized technique. Let me, however, on the subject of universities: how can we talk about European universities and therefore about the European system of universities, if our students are still obliged to enroll in many degree courses with a closed number, thus encouraging the emigration of our students to other countries, who are happy to welcome them, because of the impact that the student produces on the national gross domestic product of those countries from a cultural and economic point of view? Let us hope that the European university will not only mean other costs at the expense of our education system, our researchers and precarious teachers. We must therefore agree with the approval of the European Social Pillar. It is high time that European language became a fundamental charter for fundamental principles and rights in equal opportunities and fair working conditions (protection, social inclusion, pensions, gender equality). It is good to learn that Europe is finally convinced that strong social protection for people can go hand in hand with economic competitiveness. So when President Juncker says that it is time to create a social Europe and it is time to put people first, we cannot fail to agree. All this, however, cannot and must not remain an inscribed affirmation within a Charter, albeit with the dignity of a fundamental Charter, but must translate in precise respect for what will be the elaborations of the individual countries regarding the centrality of the person in all the actions that accompany the internal regulatory activity. That is why I would like to say that if our country decides to tackle the issue of reducing the tax burden in a serious way, it is expected to find in the Union a supporter of these policies and not a brake. (16.39) (Liuzzi followed). When our country puts in force the question of the protection of Made in Italy, our agricultural products, our small business and our jobs, it is expected that the Union will not shout at the scandal, but recognize that behind every action of this type there is the defense of the person in his being integral, recipient of support and concrete protection and, not a list of good intentions. When our country takes action against social dumping, it is expected to be supported, as President Macron said unexpectedly at last. Of course, it took 20 years to reach the official signature of the European Social Pillar. Today's situation takes pictures of a Europe in which the Member States maintain control over labour and social security policies and where it is possible to see disparities in conditions, unequal wages, tax pressure and benefits between workers in the various States. Moreover, the economic crisis has left deep marks in our societies, from high unemployment to high levels of public debt, from large flows of immigrants to the inability of policies to contingentize, regulate and spread flows across the Community continent. All this has also fueled a climate of closure and Euroscepticism. I hope, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, that the adoption of the European Social Pillar represents a fundamental turning point: European leaders have taken responsibility for making people understand that defending their social rights is equivalent to defending the social rights of the European Union, in a common condition of growth and employment. In order to lay the foundations for a social Europe, we need to believe and act in a climate of shared responsibility and concrete actions at national, regional and local level, in which the parties can all play a leading role without attributing preconceived or ancillary positions. Mr President, I have had the opportunity to say this in this House and I repeat: we are not Eurosceptics, but Europeanists; we are critics of Europe's progress, but Europeanists. But we are also called to be people of common sense: we demand, that is, in the name of the ideals and principles contained in the European Charters, that the financial policies and banking policies are re-discussed, that the new and the old poverty are contrasted and that the European Social Pillar is given meaning and concreteness. Mr President, in this regard, our position, although within a group with different cultural sensitivities, can be summed up in the words of MEP Raffaele Fitto, who today places this thought on his Facebook profile: The negotiations on the #Brexit seem to have taken the right path. It was what we wanted for #EU citizens who will continue to live in #GB. But why not take this new stage in the life of the EU to review all existing rules and treaties? Why wait for other countries to feel the need to leave an institution that can no longer interpret the feeling of citizens? All this, Mr President, we expect and allow us to have some doubts about the speed and conviction with which our country will be able to bring these repeated requests to the European tables. For this reason and always in respect of the great sensibilities present within the Group Great Autonomouss and Freedoms, we allow ourselves to express scepticism about its today's communications. [[Applause from the LAG Group (DI, GS, PPI, RI, SA).]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-915.ana.u152	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-915.ana.u153	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-915.ana.u154	AMIDEI (Mist). Madam President, I only have two minutes, so I will try to be brief and deal with the issues that the President-in-Office of the Council has given us today. Time is not enough, and that is why I shall concentrate on a main topic, which I hope will be emblematic of a way of political action and of administering which this Government has shown it is unable to abide by. Listening to the words of President Gentiloni Silveri, it seems to me that we are talking about the highest systems and celestial mechanics, almost like in a song by Battiato. All this brings to mind a distant way of doing politics, made up of the highest systems and abstruse dynamics, and I am sorry that the President-in-Office of the Council and Minister Minniti are not here. What is the perspective that this Government gives to Italians when it comes to immigration? What is the example that this Government gives in cases like that of a small Municipality of the Province of Rovigo - Loreo - where 60 migrants were installed in a residence seven meters from a tourist activity and this closing? This is the example of how Italians are protected? These people are rightly given accommodation, but mayors are opposed because their neighboring buildings inevitably suffer a penalty. Why is there no attention to Italians? Why - I ask the Minister, but I also address the President-in-Office of the Council - do we not take account of these aspects which greatly gravitate to Italian citizens? Why don't you realize that while we give some more than 1,000 euros a month, there are Italian families that are starving? Why are we not doing anything for these families and talking about the highest systems at European level? Mr President, Minister, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, it is these small things that need to be seriously considered. In conclusion, I would like to mention the song "Signali di vita" by Battiato, which I love very much: perhaps it will be the fault of associative thoughts. Do something for the Italians! [[Applause from Senator Bertacco.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-915.ana.u155	Ladies and gentlemen, let us greet and welcome the students and teachers of the Istituto comprensivo (Salvatore Quasimodo) in Crispano, in the province of Naples, who are visiting the Senate today and are attending our work. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-915.ana.u156	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-915.ana.u157	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-915.ana.u158	ZELLER (Aut (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT)-PSI-MAIE). Madam President, the agreement on the first stage of the Brexit negotiations was certainly satisfactory, but also difficult. The negotiations have dragged beyond what was planned and perhaps this has also depended on the fact that often you get carried away in making choices with your belly, giving credit to the promises of benefits that then prove non-existent and discovering that the disadvantages are much greater than what you promised in a campaign that was very populist. Perhaps it took time to bring back a good dose of healthy realism not only in the public opinion of the United Kingdom, but also of Prime Minister May. In any case, I share the view of the President-in-Office of the Council, Mr Gentiloni Silveri, that an agreement between the European Union and the United Kingdom is in the interests of both sides, although I do not clearly agree with the British people's choice of exit. It is now a firm fact that Brexit is a choice without return. This is certainly not a simple divorce, not only for the fulfilment of the commitments made by the United Kingdom in constancy of belonging to the European Union (it is a matter of several billion euros), but also for the necessary respect for the rights of the citizens of the European Union, for the complicated definition of future trade agreements and the special status of Britain, for which we do not yet have precise models, but above all for the delicate issue of the border between Ireland and Northern Ireland, because in our opinion, in any case, peace agreements that have ended a long season of attacks, clashes and conflicts must be respected. The Italian Government has maintained and maintains a role of balance and moderation in European confrontation, a role which we have always shared and which we reaffirm to be what is really important to the European Union. The same principle is inspired by the Government's position on the debate on the completion of economic and monetary union, as well as on common defence, which must undoubtedly be strengthened by creating a European Monetary Fund and a single budget for the countries of the eurozone, with a Minister for Economic Affairs and European Finance. These are certainly the important points of a new phase of economic and political integration. Comparison with the European Union requires not only shared rules, but also greater consideration of the particular condition of individual Member States. In fact, it is not reasonable to ask Italy, which has a much higher public debt than, for example, France or other countries of the European Union, to reduce this huge debt to 60% of GDP in the same period: these are different situations and it is clear that they cannot be treated in the same way, applying the same rules and the same timing. It would, in our opinion, be completely unfair. Italy, in recent years, has made a lot of efforts, more than many other countries of the European Union, and this, for once, should also be aware of the European Union and those who often criticize Italy. Italy's starting point was simply more difficult and different from that of others. We therefore share the position of the President of the Council when he says that the issue of fiscal compact must not be included in the European Treaties, but must be the subject of negotiations for a European directive, thus ensuring the necessary flexibility. Today, at the end of the parliamentary term, let me make a point. I think the Government Gentiloni Silveri in this short period, in the year 2017, has achieved important goals, even perhaps unexpected. In the field of immigration, also thanks to the constant commitment of the Minister of Interior Minniti, Italy has managed to significantly reduce the migratory flow. Even on the economic growth front, the results are more flatter than everything we have heard in the last ten years, when the adjustments to the estimates were almost always downward, never upwards. In our small, small Senate Group, it was not only necessary for us to support the policy of the Silver Gentiloni Government, but it was also an honor to be able to make our little contribution to this policy, which has borne fruit, as it should be before everyone's eyes. For these reasons, I am voting in favour of the Group for the Independents-PSI-MAIE for the resolution of the majority. [[Applause from the Aut groups (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT) - PSI-MAIE) and PD.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-915.ana.u159	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-915.ana.u160	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-915.ana.u161	DI BIAGIO (AP-CpE-NCD). Mr President-in-Office of the Council, I would like to thank you for your report and your attention to this House, which renews our country's commitments and responsibilities in the European Parliament and which expresses consistency with the path we have taken so far. I want to focus first on what has been reported about the dynamics of the management of Brexit, renewing here the commitment of our country, which you further pointed out, on the front of the management of the impasse, on which Italy's attention has always been high. Certainly the conclusion of the first phase of last week's negotiations, in which the emphasis was placed on citizens' rights, is a sign to be welcomed. Furthermore, the definition in this European Council of a debate on the state of negotiations on Brexit and the assessment of starting a second phase of the negotiations are a particularly important step in the whole process. Although the European Union's request for recognition of the guarantee of the jurisdiction of the Court of Justice of the European Union on the protection of the rights of citizens residing in the United Kingdom has not been fully accepted, a compromise has been reached in which the Court nevertheless represents a reference for the British judgment, the guarantees obtained with the agreement of 8 December are certainly an important step. The fact remains that the attention of the European Union and Italy will have to be high in continuing to support the negotiations with the British Government, also with a view to facilitating the identification of solutions that limit the potential post-Brexit criticalities on citizens and businesses. In this regard, the responsibility of our own country must be decisive, also because of commitments already entered into at national level. I would remind this House of the work that has been done over the last few months in the context of the study of the Committee on the Issues of Italians Abroad and of the European Union's Political Commissions, which has led to the adoption by this House of a resolution with very precise commitments, of which you, President, are making a very good representative. The priority has always been, in fact, to reach, as soon as possible, an agreement with the partners of the European Union that would in any case guarantee the rights acquired by citizens resident in the United Kingdom. What you have said on several occasions, Mr President, about the fundamental nature of protecting the interests of hundreds of thousands of Italians - as well as other thousands of people from other European countries - living in the United Kingdom, is the signal that we are on the right path. The call to be made in the next few days by the European Union to the United Kingdom to clarify the shape of future relations to be established after Brexit is, in fact, a significant and coherent approach. The European position that emerged at the last Gothenburg social summit last November also deserves special attention, emphasising the need to put people first, thus focusing on the social dynamics of the European Union. Therefore, the objectives include the implementation, at Union and Member State level, of the European Pillar of Social Rights and the facilitation of effective social dialogue at all levels. This initiative is perfectly functional in the perspective of rehabilitating the image and appeal of the European Union in its relationship with citizenship. Another important part of the European treatment scenario remains that of migration policies, which will be addressed in the margins of the European Council and within the timetable set out in the leaders' agenda. One of the priorities, on which we are also calling for a specific commitment in this resolution, is the revision of the Dublin Regulation, in line with the amendments recently put forward by the European Parliament and with a view to arriving at a common asylum system, with clear and uniform reference legislation, with further emphasis on the need to renew the attention of European partners on the management of migration, in respect of which Italy plays an excellent part in respect of human rights and pragmatism, which is not to be understood as a synonym of mere solidarity with those Member States which, like ours, live in the forefront of this emergency. The responsibility to which European partners are and must be called must be seen in a certain way as binding. Therefore, among the commitments of this resolution there is also that of not granting European funds, thus linking the "honours" of belonging to the European Union to the unavoidable burden of respecting the fundamental principles and values of the European Union itself. The prospect we are starting with this Council represents, in my view, an opportunity to put the potential of the Union and its priorities back into play, at a time when we are called upon to renew the terms of responsibility of Brussels. Mr President, the European meeting of the next few days therefore assumes a significant character, not only because of the multiplicity of important issues, but also because of the delicate political and social situation. I mention some important issues: European universities, Erasmus plus, financial policies, common European defence, research. This is to outline in a chorical way reflections and strategies on the short and medium term, with the hope of overcoming those uncertainties that the dynamics of impairment of the role of the European Union, first and foremost with Brexit, are generating not only between the 27, but in a global scenario, together with the different conceptions of Europe of the 27 countries. My Group chooses more Europe and a Europe of the future with a clear identity as a challenger. In view of these aspects, I would like to highlight the support of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats for Europe for this resolution and for its work. [[Applause from the AP-CpE-NCD and Aut groups (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT) - PSI-MAIE.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-915.ana.u162	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-915.ana.u163	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-915.ana.u164	De Cristofaro (Misto-SI-SEL). Madam President, the President-in-Office of the Council, Mr Gentiloni Silveri, knows that not from now on I and my Group certainly recognise him as a positive change in tone compared to a certain triumphalism, often very unbearable, that we have had to listen many times in this House in the past months, in particular by his predecessor. I am referring to that electoral propaganda even in unsuspecting times, which tended to represent a story of the country very different from reality. Instead, President Gentiloni Silveri, I acknowledge that you admit how deep and squeaky the social and economic crisis that has made our continent and recognizes that the pace of recovery in our country is lower than elsewhere. This seems to me, compared to a story inspired by the magnificent fates and progressives, but they are only in the head of the Secretary of the Democratic Party, objectively a step forward: it is a bath of reality that we believe is a positive element of confrontation to have in this House. Mr President, as I acknowledge this element of reality, I say to you that I read, on the other hand, an inability or superficiality to interpret some of the aspects contained in your report today, which I think speak of major political issues with which we are confronted. I do not have much time in this explanation of vote, having had to share it inevitably with other Senators of the Mixed Group and therefore I will apologize if I say it by titles. To argue that we have had the merit of turning the spotlight on the issue of human rights in Libya, as I heard today from his words, President Gentiloni Silveri, just on the day that a resounding relationship of Amnesty International came out, honestly screams very much with the need for a bath of reality. I think that the Italian Government should say clear words about what is emerging in these hours and that, moreover, some forces in this Parliament, which are sharing with my Group an electoral undertaking at this stage in the political life of our country, have denounced for many months in this Parliamentary Assembly. I really would like our Government to express clearer words on this point; we cannot accept that there is such a deep and so strong shadow over what is happening in Libya in recent months. Amnesty's report talks about a sophisticated system of abuse and exploitation of refugees and migrants by the Libyan authorities and, above all, about the complicity of European governments with regard to the violation of human rights against migrants who remain in Libya. European governments - it is said - are consciously complicit in the torture and abuse of tens of thousands of refugees and migrants detained in Libya. I think that such a clear and resounding issue would require this House to speak for one day only about it. In fact, when you are accused in such a powerful way by an organization, whose authority is well known, I believe that the issue would require a great deal of attention. On the contrary, I think I can say that the need for reality and the most serious words that the Premier wanted to mention in the initial part of his report allude in some way to a great element of difficulty. Our country is going through a historical phase characterized by a dangerous regurgitation of the forces of the right and the extreme right and the return of a certain racist terminology, which of course frightens democratic souls. I therefore ask the Government and the majority parties whether it makes sense to demonstrate in the streets against racism and, at the same time, to hear Amnesty International say that they are closing their eyes to what is happening in Libya even with the complicity of our Government. It seems to me a question that you should say clearer and clearer words than the deafening silence of these hours. I would also like to say with equal clarity that I find the attitude of our Government absolutely inadequate. I was impressed not to hear the word Palestine in the report that the President-in-Office of the Council made a few minutes ago. Of course, I have also read Federica Mogherini's statements and I have shared a number of positions, but could our Government, before the Council of Europe is convened, not consider it essential to bring the question of what happened today in the territories of Jerusalem and Gaza into that forum? In our resolution we call for the Government to promote a position of firm condemnation of what has happened over the past few days, which has seen the unfortunate hypothesis of the President of the United States of America moving the American embassy to Jerusalem. We think that at this stage, with respect to such a serious issue as the Palestinian one, we should have a completely different approach. I must also say that the fact that in our country there is no follow-up to what Parliament wanted to say clearly a few years ago when, by a very large majority, it voted a motion which committed the Government to promoting the unilateral recognition of the State of Palestine. If you want to do something good, gentlemen of the Government, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, go to the Council of Europe and ask for the recognition of the State of Palestine by the European Union. [[Applause from the Mixed-SI-SEL Group and the Senators Gatti and Ricchiuti.]] Try to put a point on this issue, to raise a flag, to say that the European Union is trying to put in place a foreign policy hypothesis other than what the American administration is doing in recent years. We have a dramatic scenario ahead of us in the entire Middle East area. At this historical stage, there is a great tendency on the part of Israel to be strong in relation to a very difficult and complex political framework, also taking advantage of what US foreign policy is doing in particular with regard to Iran and to the issue that has long crossed the Sunni world and the Shia world. Well, now is the time to strike a blow, to try to put in place a foreign policy hypothesis that can speak to that great part of the Arab world that also seeks a peaceful solution to the Israeli-Palestinian conflict. The idea, however, that we can, even with silence, support the policy of the United States of America, of Trump who, with his choices, delegitimizes also the more moderate Palestinian leadership that seeks and has tried in recent years to bring about moments of peace, seems to me a very serious political responsibility. I would like two words to be heard in this House, which are not simply the names of two states: Libya and Palestine, Libya and Palestine. We will tell you every day; we will tell you even when the Chambers are dissolved; we will tell you also in the electoral campaign, because it is not enough to seek an extra vote to forget aspects that concern the dignity of the civil populations of our world. On this, our Group - and who will vote for our resolution with us, we hope to be able to say - will always be on the same side. [[Applause from the Mixed-SI-SEL and Art.1-MDP Groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-915.ana.u165	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-915.ana.u166	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-915.ana.u167	ENDRIZZI (M5S). Madam President, it seems a habit, but before the interventions of the 5 Star Movement, the President of the "rabbit" disappears. [[Comments of Senators Chiti and Cardinals]] This is the last chance to confront us before the end of this wretched legislature. I understand it is late for the government to start listening, but we will not tire of making clarity out of duty to the Italians. The first question on the table: the path to permanent structured European cooperation in the field of defence (Pesco), moreover only on a voluntary basis, could entail additional costs for Italy compared to military expenditure on national defence, for programmes which, moreover, appear to be, in part, complementary to NATO. The 5 Star Movement Group calls for cooperation programmes in the field of defence to eliminate unnecessary duplication and waste and to standardize equipment, thus allowing economies of scale, savings on the defence budget in the Member States to be reinvested, hopefully, in the fight against poverty, unemployment and inequalities. Otherwise, there is a real risk of subsidising only the arms industry. Finally, the European Union must be a protagonist in resolving conflicts, and not, as it is too often accessing them, a responsible part of them. Second theme: Brexit. The fragile agreement signed on paper seems to be a victory for all; it affirms the principle of non-discrimination and equal treatment for British citizens in Europe and for Europeans in the United Kingdom, who will be able to continue to exercise the rights currently guaranteed: freedom of movement, residence, social rights and family reunifications, which may have to be interpreted by the British courts in accordance with the established case-law of the Court of Justice of the European Union. Yet Italian citizens - and not only - denounce situations of intolerance and xenophobia: owners of homes that refuse to rent to European citizens; employers who advertise jobs only for British people; difficulties in opening bank accounts and mortgages and a general "return to your country" aimed at the citizens of Eastern Europe as well as young Italians, especially children and adolescents. This must open its eyes to the causes of Brexit: it was not voted by the elite of London, Oxford or Cambridge, who from globalization took an opportunity of gain, but on that side of the people who lived in the suburbs the massive entry of migrants from Eastern Europe as a form of unfair competition on wages. It is the Europe system that appears as an amplifier of competition and conflict, both between member countries and between social groups; that Europe that President Gentiloni Silveri called a little family: several times he spoke of the European family. Well, the last Censis report says, "The social dividend of economic recovery has not been distributed." A slim shot, by the way. We are the taillight in Europe and had tried to make a magic, a game of words about speed. But continues the Censis: the block of social mobility creates resentment. Then listen to us! Listen to us. Otherwise, we'll talk about Uexit soon. It will be Europe that will fail after the failure of these wretched governments. The 5 Star Movement calls for the Italian Government to work to ensure that in negotiations with the UK authorities for Brexit guarantees are obtained in order to block xenophobic phenomena against our fellow citizens and other European citizens; to ensure that the registration of AIRE is recognised as an element of certification of residence in Great Britain; to ensure that the new rules for obtaining the residence certificate are simple, rapid and do not introduce any form of discrimination or conditions aimed strongly at limiting rights; to ensure, in agreement with the European and international institutions, respect for the human rights of migrants following agreements concluded with third States in order to control migration flows. Here, however, the responsibility of the Government remains suspended to avoid, even in our territory, the progressive and inexorable increase of the gap between the social groups that can and those that are cut off. If this has led to the traumatic exit of a country like Great Britain, which has an unemployment rate of 4%, you can well imagine what the consequences can be in Italy, where unemployment is triple, and the Government is constantly prone to strong powers of economy and finance. We now come to the issue of immigration to Europe. The governments of the last decade have serious responsibilities in the destabilisation of crucial territories but have been spectators in the face of the exponential increase of the entrances in Italy: 40,000 in 2013, 170,000 in 2014, until 2016 over 180,000 arrivals (it is data Frontex). What is happening in Libya, where serious human rights violations have emerged, cannot be silenced. The government boasts as its merit the denunciation of these facts. But to what are these due, if not to agreements made without any control of what was happening? Thirty-six, in fact, are institutional prisons and only twenty-four can enter and present a horrible, dramatic situation. Not to mention the non-institutional prisons that are teeming; serious forms of torture, especially for women and children; inhuman and degrading treatment; reduction in slavery. The Libyan agreement risks being yet another mistake in European policy on migration flows and to support politically and economically militias and leaders to say the least questionable, as we have already seen in Turkey. We continue to give money, but we do not intervene on the root causes of migration and our country is forced to manage an epochal phenomenon practically alone. Well, the governing parties, with the hypocritical abstention of the League, voted in the European Parliament the German-style reform of the Dublin Regulation: a cage that obliges Italy to manage all economic migrants on its own. For them there is no re-allocation, no European solidarity, no burden-sharing. We're talking about over 70,000 people who need to be repatriated. But returns are very difficult, since there are no agreements with most countries of origin. So, our business. In this respect, everyone agrees with the European Parliament, as here on Rosatellum, as well as on the vitalities, as on the financing of parties. They voted yes to yet another scam for Italians, which we will pay dearly in the years to come. Then we will see the resolutions that say that we are going to beat our fists in Europe. The League has settled, so as not to disturb the coalitions "to repeat." Only the 5 Star Movement has always fought in Europe for a real, strong and authentic solidarity. The principle of the country of first entry, on the other hand, is only remodulated and, in fact, confirmed. Economic migrants, unlike refugees, will remain in the country of arrival. All potentially dangerous people remain in the country of first entry. And we're left alone in this. Before that, a Member State became competent if the applicant had stayed there for one year, even if he had landed in another country. With the new revision it will no longer be like this: Italy, as a country of first port, will be permanently responsible for the migrants arrived, other than solidarity. The relocation mechanism is not automatic at all: it will start after the filter procedures on safety and demand. An asylum seeker can therefore be transferred to another country after many months of his arrival and in the meantime Italy will always take charge of it. Among the criteria for redistributing asylum seekers, there is not the unemployment rate, only those of GDP and the resident population remain, so there is the risk of a war between the poor: on the one hand refugees who see the right to remain in Italy and on the other the Italian unemployed who do not find work. Finally, a period of three years of transition is granted for States which are lagging behind in the application of reception procedures. These countries are in fact exempted from the mechanism of redistribution. In so doing, the selfishness of some Member States who refuse to apply common standards for the right to asylum is legitimate and Italy will continue to have more migrants than other European countries in these three years. Madam President, we were the first to denounce the Dublin regulation, which transformed Italy into a refugee camp in Europe. It would make no sense to ask this Government, after five years of failure to listen, to take responsibility for the national interest: it will be a 5 Star government that will do so, and then it will show the difference. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-915.ana.u168	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-915.ana.u169	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-915.ana.u170	Alicata (FI-PdL XVII). Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the Government, the next few days' European meeting will, as usual, address the issues of the moment: migration policies, defence policies, negotiations with Britain after Brexit. As usual, on the issues related to the migratory phenomenon, many chatter and few facts. One of the few facts - it should be remembered - has been achieved as a result of the political action of Forza Italia in the Defence Commission to the Senate, which led the Government to take initiatives against NGOs that acted as an attractive factor. This initiative was followed by the commitments of the Commission and the Minister for the Interior, which led to the regulation of the work of these organisations and to a reduction, at last, of the flows, but not yet the desired blockade. Among the issues to be addressed is firstly that of the stabilisation of Libya and therefore the need for the European Union to share with Italy the weight and costs of the migratory pressure on the Central Mediterranean route that for 2018 will reach the five billion in the state budget, of which 3.6 billion only for the reception. Our country's commitment to the European Union must provide for a sudden transition from words to deeds, through concrete support to the countries most involved in the current migration crisis (Italy and Greece). The forecast of enhanced cooperation between States, resulting from the Valletta agreements, in order to facilitate the return and reintegration of irregular migrants in the countries of origin, remains a dead letter. We consider it essential to make the allocation of EU funds to Member States conditional on compliance with asylum obligations, given that the countries most opposed to hosting migrants to be relocated are those most benefiting from European funds. It is also essential to continue to work to ensure that the countries of departure of the migratory wave commit themselves to greater border control, thereby preventing the departure and the direct transition to Libya. It is necessary, therefore, to continue the commitment to a full assumption of own responsibilities by the Countries of the area of North Africa (Libya and Tunisia first) in the operations of rescue carried out in the areas SAR of their competence. We must also ensure, in the appropriate international fora and in bilateral relations, that no uncoordinated initiative can undermine the effectiveness of our mission, both diplomatic and military, in Libya. After Malta, the European Union's commitment to ensuring adequate reception capacities and conditions for migrants in Libya remains primary through the construction of reception camps with the standards required by UNHCR and IOM. We also consider it necessary, with regard to the common foreign and defence policy, to make a decisive shift in the priority axis of the European Union's attention to the Mediterranean area, in terms of political and economic cooperation. The European Neighbourhood Policy, which aims to manage the EU's relations with neighbouring, southern and eastern countries, should also be strengthened, with the main objective of promoting economic integration and peace in conflict areas. Europe must then act in the appropriate diplomatic fora towards Tunisia, so that it undertakes to stop the new illegal migration route, also in collaboration with our country. It is also of primary importance to put in place the greatest effort to prevent the probable attempt to return to Europe, even with migratory waves, of foreign fighters, already engaged in conflict areas. We believe that better coordination between intelligence services, including through EU resources, is necessary, as we hope will be the case on several occasions. With regard to Brexit, Italy must be a spokesperson at European Council level on the need to analyse the critical issues that continue to be raised with regard to the European Union's ability to provide effective answers to the social and economic problems of the Union. First of all, when we note Britain's decision to leave the European Union, Europe's task must remain to maintain the best possible relations with Britain. Citizens and businesses cannot have any uncertainty about what will happen to them after the separation, which we all hope will be consensual. In this respect, it remains essential to ensure the mutual legal status of Italian and UK citizens by maintaining a principle of equity, symmetry and non-discrimination, and thus to ensure legal certainty for legal persons and businesses. Finally, but not the least of the problems, Europe's relations with the Russian Federation. Once again, efforts must be made to support a satisfactory agreement between Russia and Ukraine allowing the European Union to normalise friendly relations with an important partner such as the Russian Federation. In short, Mr President, the issues are many and articulated and we hope that in the interest of our country the Government can finally address them in a more concrete and effective way than it has been until today. [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-915.ana.u171	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-915.ana.u172	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-915.ana.u173	Sangalli (PD). Madam President, senators, senators, members of the Government, I would like to make a first consideration, because perhaps this will be the last occasion in this parliamentary term to talk about policies for the Council of Europe. The consideration is a bit ironic and a little aesthetic: the style has changed; there is a better relationship with Parliament; there is an appropriate style for the President of the Council. I must say that the style has certainly changed and that I also appreciate it very much, but what has changed is that over the years a sequence of actions has been carried out that have changed the situation. There is no change in style, but in the situation. Only two years ago we were engaged - it would be right if the Italian citizens who follow us knew this, so not those who now have to campaign, but those who will have to hear the election campaign - to save hundreds of thousands of lives at sea. Our armed forces did it; a heroic Coast Guard did it; the people of our Mezzogiorno did it heroically; we did what no other country of Europe had done. When we were at that point, we heard that we should limit and regulate the flows of migrants to our country. We have done so, with very strong and adequate international and internal policies, which have looked to Africa and not only to the countries of boarding, but also to those of departure and origin. We have made agreements with the local communities and with the most backward countries in the sub-Saharan area, we have created the conditions for which robbers of human beings were most in difficulty and, at the same time, we have found the conditions for having a Government in Libya, that collaborated with us in the containment of departures, having behind - and this is one of the themes of the next European Council - African countries that can use an agreement with the European Union to try to support their economies and their situation. The situation has certainly changed: it is a matter of empathy, sympathy and education, but it has changed profoundly. I am very pleased that so many political forces today have told us about Amnesty International's alarms about the so-called reception centres in Libya. However, I do not remember these appeals by Amnesty International when two or three years ago people drowned at sea, we saved it and we heard ourselves saying that we were doing something against the interest of our country. [[Applause from the PD Group]] Amnesty International was there then and there is still now and now we are committed to ensuring that the conditions of those reception centres in Libya are made human - today we have heard in the Senate the representatives of the International Organization for Migration of the United Nations - and are made livable, because this livability allows that between Europe and the African continent, which is the most reproductive in the world, we can weave an intensity of relationship, which cannot be trivialized simply by blocking migrants, thinking of forcing them there, without making a problem about how they are forced. On the other hand, we need a fertile area of cooperation and we must tell our fellow citizens that without this fertile area of cooperation we would regress, we would not stop the great migratory movements and we would find ourselves a target country of terrifying pressure, if only for our geographical position. Will this be discussed at the European Council? Yes, even if it seems that we are not talking about it, despite the subject of the revision of the Treaty of Dublin, which - I would like to remind you - determines that the country in which you arrive has illegal immigration and that you have to deal alone with those who arrive. Well, the next European Council will begin to seriously review this Treaty, and that is an important fact, because all European countries will be able to accept, have to invest, have to do their part, not discharge their responsibilities on the Mediterranean countries or even, doing worse, as some Mediterranean countries do vis-à-vis other Mediterranean countries. There is more Europe in this European Council. I am so sorry for the anti-Europeans, who were many until a few days ago. I am sorry for them, but more Europe is being made, because when a structured and permanent cooperation programme for defence is implemented, more Europe is being made. On what must Europe structure its own behaviour and unity, if not in having a common strategy of defence and approach to major international issues? More Europe is being created because relations between the European Union and NATO are being called into question, on the basis of the guidelines of the Bratislava Summit. I would like to remind you that only a few months ago there was the Bratislava Summit, which defined new relations between the European Union and NATO. More Europe is being made, because a more social Europe is being made. Although all this passes as if it were a "lightness of being," the fact that the Erasmus project, the networking of European universities, the creation of a European pillar for the protection of citizens, for growth and employment, the provision of a charter of European social rights, seem to me to be "Europe" issues. They make Europe serious, not a Europe that speaks ill of itself, in which everyone finds their own responsibilities in those of others; a Europe that is committed to pursuing with determination the projects concerning its own future outlined by the agenda of the leaders and the objectives of the European Social Charter; to supporting structured cooperation for defence; to making a European foreign policy that puts the Mediterranean at the centre with a strategic partnership with Africa and a plan for stabilising multilateral development, the consolidation of a genuine European policy dialectic through measures such as the establishment of a European constituency, the defence of democracy and the rule of law in Europe, a strengthening of the Union's defence instruments. We will talk about the need to relaunch the idea of a European Public Prosecutor against terrorism and organised crime. Less Europe? This is Europe; the Europe that gives itself structures, policies and methods of intervention. This is Europe. We in this Europe can speak - I am sorry for those to whom this is sorry - with some dignity for what we have done in the Mediterranean, for what we have done with Africa and - let me say this - for what we have done in our country with the economic results we have produced, with the improvements we have made. [[Applause from the PD Group]] Otherwise we would not have had this dignity in order to speak to Europe. The reforms that have taken place and that Europe recognizes us today give us that tone, which we have noted here, of the greatest influence of European policies and which will enable us to ask for things that are of great interest to us, such as the revision of the Dublin Treaty, to remind our partners and the European institutions that the management of migration is not a responsibility of one but must be shared and that the funds must be reduced to those European countries which reject their quotas as migrants and to play their part in the problems of immigration. We must also tackle Brexit and here I would like to say briefly that it is a difficult, problematic and not a simple negotiation. The United Kingdom is a great country that comes out of Europe; perhaps, if it were to redo that referendum, today it would make choices different from those it made a few months ago. [[Applause from the PD Group]] , when they got to safety, with their heads in the sand compared to their own problems, saying that they were of European origin and that they had to get out of Europe. Today I hear about negotiations on a soft border between Ireland and Northern Ireland, that is, the fact that it is a matter of ensuring that the border between Ireland and Northern Ireland does not become militarised again, that we do not again stimulate the phenomenon of terrorism in Northern Ireland that we have seen in history, that this does not occur in all European countries. Do we or do we not want to tell the federalists at home that there is no federalist region in Europe that, while it does not recognize its own state, does not see its own port in Europe? This is true for Catalonia, for the Flemish, for the Scots, for all of them. [[Applause from the PD Group]] Do we or do we not want to understand that Europe is at the same time a recognition of federalism and specific regional identities and at the same time of a single nation which must be the Europe in which minorities also find themselves? There is also a difficult passage: Trump's choice of recognition by the United States of Jerusalem as the capital of Israel is a step we do not share and we told the United Nations Security Council a few days ago. Allow me, Madam President, to conclude with the words that our motion for a resolution quotes exactly a resolution from the European Parliament which states that Jerusalem must be the capital of two countries and when we talk about two countries, dear friends, we are not talking about Libya and Palestine, but about Israel and Palestine. It must be the capital of two countries: one recognized, which is the State of Israel, on the basis of the 1967 borders; the other which must be democratic, pluralist, must be representative of those regions, as is the State of Palestine. Let's talk about something serious. Let's not do propaganda. Let us try to induce Jerusalem to return to being a multi-religious city of peace and not, instead, a stimulation of global degeneration. [[Applause from the PD Group]] In this Europe and in this European action we are going to talk about the day after tomorrow. Many have not noticed this, as electoral propaganda leads elsewhere, but Italian citizens must know that in the next European Council, with great dignity, a country goes to discuss the future of Europe with dignity. [[Applause from the PD Group. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-915.ana.u174	I inform the Assembly that motions for resolutions No 1 have been tabled by Senators Zanda, Bianconi, Zeller and Barani, No 2, Senator Centinario and other Senators, No 3, Senator De Petris and other Senators, No 4, Senator Endrizzi and other Senators, and No 5, Senator Romani Paolo and other Senators, who will be put to the vote in accordance with the order of presentation and whose texts are distributed. I call on the representative of the Government to give an opinion on the motions for resolutions that have been tabled.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-915.ana.u175	Madam President, as I pointed out, I would like to comment briefly on three brief points, and then to give an opinion on the motions for resolutions. The first consideration concerns the element that has been discussed several times in the speeches relating to the communications of President Gentiloni Silveri on growth. No one escapes - the President has said so - that in Italy growth rates remain, on average, lower than those of Europe, which is right, provided it is clear that they have been lower for many years and that today the gap is closing more and more rapidly, especially with countries like France and Spain. The second point concerns migration issues. the President of the Council has emphasized the engagement of the Commission and - alas - the engagement still of few Countries. The scheme within which we move is as follows: little role and little resources for the Commission, which instead makes available fully its role and the few resources; little solidarity on the part of the countries, with the exception, which has been reported, of Germany and perhaps, from the point of view only of the funds and not of redistribution, of the countries of the Visegrad group. I would like to conclude with a notation on Brexit, since I find it unique that, to point out the persistence of episodes of intolerance and xenophobia in the United Kingdom by Italian citizens who reside, live, work and study there, both the President of the Group whose counterparts sit in the European Parliament in the same Group with Farage. [[Applause from the PD Group]] I find this to be at least a singular notation. European policies should be better coordinated in Rome and Brussels. Finally, the opinion is in favour of the motion for a resolution No 1 tabled by Senators Zanda, Bianconi, Zeller and Barani, and against all the others.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-915.ana.u176	We shall now proceed to the vote on motion for a resolution No 1. SANTANGELO (M5S). As long as we do not change the Rules of Procedure, we call for a simultaneous vote to be taken by electronic means. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I refer to the roll-call vote on motion for resolution No 1 tabled by Senators Zanda, Bianconi, Zeller and Barani. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the vote on motion for a resolution No 2. SANTANGELO (M5S). We call for the vote to be taken by simultaneous ballot by electronic means. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of motion for resolution No 2, tabled by Senator Centinario and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the vote on motion for a resolution No 3. SANTANGELO (M5S). We call for the vote to be taken by simultaneous ballot by electronic means. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of motion for a resolution No 3, tabled by Senator De Petris and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the vote on motion for a resolution No 4. SANTANGELO (M5S). We call for the vote to be taken by simultaneous ballot by electronic means. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I call on Senator Endrizzi and other senators to vote on the motion for a resolution No 4 simultaneously. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the vote on motion for a resolution No 5. SANTANGELO (M5S). We call for the vote to be taken by simultaneous ballot by electronic means. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I call on Senator Romani Paolo and other senators to vote on the motion for a resolution No 5 simultaneously. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B).
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-915.ana.u177	We welcome the students and teachers of the Roncalli Institute of Higher Education in Poggibonsi, in the province of Siena, who are today visiting the Senate and attending our work. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-915.ana.u178	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-915.ana.u179	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-915.ana.u180	[[Brusio.]] I would beg colleagues to leave quietly. AMIDEI (Mist). Madam President, I would like to ask for a moment's attention, please. It is known to all that recently, on December 8th, an important event took place for one of the symbols of Italy in the world: the recognition, as an intangible heritage of UNESCO, of the art of Neapolitan pizza makers. The most absurd thing is that, despite this deserved recognition, which took place not in our home, but, as we know, in South Korea... [[Brusio.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-915.ana.u181	Colleagues, I beg you to lower your voice.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-915.ana.u182	AMIDEI (Mist). Madam President, please, I cannot continue. I already have a few seconds to intervene. I would like to ask for a moment's attention on this matter. It is located in the 5th Commission (the President of which stands before me) the bill 2280 containing: "Discipline of activity, recognition of qualification and establishment of the national register of pizza makers-professionals." South Korea and UNESCO recognize the art of pizza makers, the art of making pizza, the symbol of Made in Italy in the world, and we are not able to approve a bill that recognizes the professional qualification of this figure that has contributed so much to this image in the world? I'm not being silly. I read the reasons on which the UNESCO Commission approved the recognition: The culinary know-how related to the production of pizza, which includes gestures, songs, visual expressions, local jargon, ability to handle the dough of pizza, perform and share is an indisputable cultural heritage. We have a bill that has been in existence for months; I address President Tonini and the President of the Senate. See that if the recognition of the professional qualification of the pizza maker will take place in another country and not in Italy you will be responsible for this shame, after UNESCO has recognized it! It would be the best if Spain, Germany and China recognized the professional qualification of the pizza maker. We honor these people, who bring Italian culture to the world, also recognized by UNESCO. Let's do this before this legislature runs out and maybe there'll be pizza for everyone. I say this with sympathy to 150 000 operators in the sector, who contribute 50% to the turnover of catering in Italy and who are waiting for the 5th Commission to fire the text; there is not a penny on the budget, so it could be freely examined by the 10th Commission. Let's approve it. On behalf of all the pizza makers, thank you, Madam President. [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-915.ana.u183	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-915.ana.u184	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-915.ana.u185	CANDIANI (LN-Aut). Madam President, I am speaking because it is necessary to draw the attention of the House and the Government to a fact that is leaving many people in Umbria quite perplexed. It is a very hard-working land, but at the beginning of the last century, it suffered a severe hemorrhaging of people who had to go abroad to work. Many have moved to Luxembourg, struggling to earn those resources that their country could not make available to them because of the lack of work. The situation has become paradoxical, because when these fellow citizens of ours have returned to Italy, after a life of work spent abroad, they have found themselves in recent years (and, in the specific case, also in these months), now retired, to be subjected by the State to a sort of inquisition, as if they were tax evaders. This is because there is a bad interpretation of legislation that concerns double taxation, i.e. tax returns earned abroad, rather than undeclared income, but earned abroad. You see, Madam President, the situation is paradoxical and I have asked a question in which the Government is asked to clarify, because we find ourselves with people who have over 70 years of age who are classified substantially as evadors, people against whom are issued tickets for fines exceeding tens of thousands of euros (50,000, 60,000, 70,000 euros), pensioners who have a two-roomed apartment, if that's okay. A doubt then arises in front of these actions, which are frankly typical of a weak state, which unfortunately makes the strong with the weak and then hides when it has to go to take the total evaders, arriving at the end of the year to declare that it has found the real total evaders, which in fact is not in this case. In this way, among other things, a serious vulnus is inflicted on our fellow citizens who, I repeat, in the flower of their youth were forced to leave abroad and, once returned to Italy, they even feel taken for evaders. With a question, we ask the Minister to take a quick interest in the situation and to indicate an interpretation through circulars - where necessary - avoiding a wrong against these people who have returned to Italy today to spend the last few years, not to be evaded, but as a citizen who has worked and paid taxes. [[Applause from Senator Arrigoni.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-915.ana.u186	Undersecretary Pizzetti, who is present here and representing the Government, will certainly have taken note.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-915.ana.u187	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-915.ana.u188	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-915.ana.u189	Mr Pagliari (PD). Madam President, I would like to represent here, also on behalf of Senator Pignedoli, the dramatic situation that is taking place in the Lower Parmense and Lower Reggiana, particularly because of the flooding of the river Enza. There are countries like Colorno, Brescello, Boretto and Lentigione submerged by water. There are particularly serious situations: in Lentigione, for example, there is Immergas, a factory with 500 employees, which is completely submerged and risks blocking the activity. We want to emphasize that the whole area of the Lower, rich in companies, is in a really desperate condition and we highlight it to the Government in view of the declaration of the state of emergency, giving notice of the maximum availability manifested today by President Gentiloni Silveri, who, before the beginning of the session, listened to our considerations, ensuring the utmost attention. [[Applause from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-915.ana.u190	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-915.ana.u191	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-915.ana.u192	ICHINO (PD). Madam President, we are used to criticising the justice of our country, accusing it of the many plagues that actually afflict it. Now, however, the publication of a judgment of the Milan Court of Assizes offers us a good reason to suspend for a day the criticism and take note of an extraordinary page that has been written in an Italian courtroom. Extraordinary, first of all, is the story of a group of Somali immigrants who in an Italian reception center recognize one of their torturers: a member of the organization that in Africa, under the pretext of helping them to reach Europe, organized their kidnapping in different Libyan " lagers," where he subjected them to the most atrocious sufferings to extort from their families a sort of ransom, condition to allow them then to face the very dangerous crossing of the Mediterranean. The refugee group in Milan blocks the compatriot, disputes the atrocities committed, but decides not to take justice on its own, but to report it to the police. It is a very civil act and of trust in the judicial administration of the country that hosts them; an act to which the administration of justice responds in the best way, with extraordinary competence, efficiency and timeliness, applying a rule of the penal code that gives the Italian judge, at the request of the Minister of Justice, jurisdiction over crimes committed against refugees, which otherwise would have no possibility of being prosecuted. The defendant's arrest took place in January of this year and the court's ruling was filed on 1 December of this year and, therefore, in less than a year a complex investigation is carried out not only by the judicial police and the prosecutor, but also until the conclusion a debate takes place that puts before the eyes of the whole civil world and not only the Italian massacre to which African refugees are subjected in the hands of the organizations dedicated to the Libyan police - the "management" and the ruthless exploitation of their tragic journey to the Sicilian and Calabrian coasts. The sentence, which condemns the accused for the atrocities committed, concludes a trial whose conduct has been characterized by a very high emotional tension for the drama of the events and the enormity of the sufferings that the investigation has revived in the courtroom of the Assize of Milan. The emotional tension was determined by the choice of the court to emphasize, in the government of the trial, the consideration of all the persons involved - not only the injured parties, but also the defendant, his wife and his daughter child - as human persons, subjects of emotions and family affections. The press had reported at the time of the court's decision to offer the defendant, in a recess of the hearings, the reserved time and space, outside the bars, in which to meet with the two family members. The sentence, of more than 100 pages, is a real treatise on hell through which pass immigrants who come from the heart of Africa to the coasts of the Mediterranean. I believe that this must be done in a justice of which all too often we say only the defects. [[Applause from Senator Puppato.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-915.ana.u193	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-915.ana.u194	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-915.ana.u195	EXPOSED Stefano (PD). Madam President, I think it is necessary to submit to the Minister for Infrastructure and Transport something that happened this morning in Turin in the first morning. There was basically a delay on all flights due to the lack of the necessary means to unhook the wings. Since we are not talking about Lampedusa airport - where luckily ice is very rare commodity - but of Turin I put the theme of the management of both the airport, which is in the hands of a private, and Alitalia. The company that manages the airport in fact, with a statement, has attributed this problem to the fact that the society to which Alitalia relies for this type of participations does not depend from the SAGAT itself. I then went past the flight panel and found that everyone was late. At this point or the Aviapartner, which operates at the airport of Turin, is a monopolist society or, in reality, there has been a general problem. I would therefore ask the Minister of Infrastructure and Transport, since we are at the door of the winter, to check whether we can really afford that in 2017 an airport like Turin and Alitalia keep passengers on the ground for two and a half hours - the delay affected not only Italian flights, but also foreign flights - because of the lack of an instrument that should be of primary presence at a stopover such as that.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-915.ana.u196	The motions, questions and questions received by the Presidency will be published in Annex B to today's report.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-915.ana.u197	The Senate will meet again in public tomorrow, 13 December, at 9.30 a.m., with the following agenda: (See agenda) The sitting was closed at 5.59 p.m.
