ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-798.ana.u1	The sitting was opened at 16 p.m. The Minutes shall be read. Mr SIBILIA, secretary, read the Minutes of the afternoon sitting of the previous day. PRESIDENT. - The debate is Since there were no comments, the Minutes were approved.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-798.ana.u2	The list of senators on leave and absent on assignment received from the Senate, as well as further communications to the Assembly, will be published in Annex B to today's Minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-798.ana.u3	The next item is the question 3-03444 on the allocation and use of the Fund's resources for non-self-sufficiency. The representative of the Government may answer this question.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-798.ana.u4	Madam President, with reference to the parliamentary act of Senator Simeoni and other Senators, concerning the protection of the rights of persons with disabilities, the following is true. It should be recalled that Law No 296 of 2006 (financial law for 2007) established at the then Ministry of Social Solidarity (now the Ministry of Labour and Social Policies), the National Fund for Non-Sufficiencies in order to ensure the implementation of the essential levels of welfare benefits in favour of non-self-sufficient persons throughout the country. With the establishment of this fund, the national legislator intervened in accordance with Article 17 of the Constitution, under which the State has exclusive legislation in determining the essential levels of benefits relating to civil and social rights to be guaranteed throughout the national territory. The same article instead recognizes to the Regions the legislative power in all matters not expressly reserved to the legislation of the State including, in particular, that of social policies. As a result, the management by the Ministry of Labour of the National Fund for Non-Sufficiencies refers to a mere departure, after the necessary agreement with the Permanent Conference for the Relations between the State, the Regions and the Autonomous Provinces, of the resources to the Regions as owners of the interventions in the matter of social policies. Having said that, with regard to the first question put by the interrogators, I would like to point out that Resolution No 18/2016/G of the Court of Auditors represents the final act of an investigation which saw the active involvement of the Ministry of Labour, called upon to provide multiple reports and documents useful for the investigation of the supervisory body. Within the framework of the survey, the Ministry has made a constant intercourse with the Court of Auditors also through specific meetings aimed at deepening the ratio and characteristics of the National Fund for non-self-sufficiency, as well as other initiatives financed by the Fund and experimental projects on independent living and inclusion of persons with disabilities. The Ministry of Labour also attended the meeting of July 5 last year during which the accounting judge deposited his conclusions and recommendations to the representatives of the Ministry, expressing his appreciation for the contribution to the investigations. I would also point out that Article 3, paragraph 5, of the decree allocating the resources of the National Fund for non-self-sufficiency for 2016, in line with the observations of the Court of Auditors, states that the regions must take over the number of people with very serious disabilities; to date this was not the case. This number will have to be communicated, in the first quarter of 2017, to the Ministry of Labour in order to define the essential levels of benefits to be guaranteed throughout the national territory within the limits of the share of resources of the National Fund for non-self-sufficiency made available for this purpose. Finally, with reference to the points made by the interrogators regarding initiatives on independent living and inclusion in the society of people with disabilities, I would like to point out that the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy continues to pay very strong attention to the implementation phase of the experimental projects in place in the various territories, by monitoring the initiatives undertaken and the expenditure related to them, in order to provide the various tranches of funding. In particular, the Ministry has punctually interloquito with the Regions in order to raise awareness of the same regarding the respect of the times of realization of the plans and the engagements assumed.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-798.ana.u5	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-798.ana.u6	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-798.ana.u7	SIMONI (Mist). Madam President, Secretary-General, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to say that I have tabled this question without basing myself on the quota allocated to this problem, but on the type of treatment that is being done. After listening to the answer to my question, I can only say that I am partially satisfied and I try briefly to explain the reasons for it in the time allowed to me. First of all, I think it is extremely serious that only as a result of what has been pointed out have we come to consider a problem whose human and social implications are of great importance to those affected by situations of non-self-sufficiency. The Court of Auditors correctly reports situations of imbalance but, given the hand, those who are supposed to remedy them seem to be a merchant's ear, and then you can ask yourself why a Calabrian citizen should receive contributions that do not exceed 50 euros per year while in the North Centre the expenditure stabilizes on an average of 130 euros, up to the citizen of the Province of Trento who can benefit from an annual per capita figure of almost 300 euros. The civilization of a country is also measured by the ability it has to deal equally with its own citizens, including the most unfortunate ones: this does not seem to happen in Italy where the permanence of these situations only increases the gap between the different geographical areas and between the different conditions. But not only that. It is also possible to think that the problem is due to a much more serious factor, closely linked to the structural and political inability of local administrations - and I am referring in particular to South Italy - that they are unable or unwilling to improve the quality of life of their citizens in favour of perhaps others and much more unspeakable interests. Why in the province of Reggio Calabria you spend only 25 euros per capita per year? Perhaps less money comes to Calabria than to Lombardy? So either the criterion for the distribution of funds for non-self-sufficiency should be thoroughly and quickly revised or something should not be included in the allocation of funds between central and peripheral authorities. On this the answer obtained not only does not make any clarity but, on the contrary, maintains the veil of doubts and conjectures that the accounting judiciary itself, while respecting its institutional role, rightly wanted to emphasize.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-798.ana.u8	Question Time on the agenda is thus over.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-798.ana.u9	The motions, questions and questions received by the Presidency will be published in Annex B to today's report.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-798.ana.u10	The Senate will meet again in two public sessions on Tuesday 4 April, the first at 11 a.m. and the second at 4.30 p.m., with the following agenda: (See agenda) The sitting was closed at 16.11 a.m.
