ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-901.ana.u1	The sitting was opened at 11 a.m. I would remind you that in yesterday's afternoon sitting the Minutes of the afternoon sitting of 12 October 2017 were not approved. Therefore, before we proceed to the reading of the Minutes of yesterday's afternoon sitting, the Minutes of the afternoon sitting of 12 October must be approved. As there are no comments, the Minutes of the afternoon sitting of 12 October were approved. The Minutes of yesterday's afternoon sitting shall be read. Mr Petraglia, secretary, read the Minutes of the afternoon sitting of the previous day. PRESIDENT. - The debate is Since there were no comments, the Minutes were approved.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-901.ana.u2	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-901.ana.u3	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-901.ana.u4	BUEMI (Aut (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT)-PSI-MAIE). Mr President, I would have liked to have asked for the quorum to be checked, but I was not given the time; if it were possible, I would keep it to myself.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-901.ana.u5	Are there any comments on the Minutes? BUEMI (Aut (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT)-PSI-MAIE). I understand, Mr President; ubi maior. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-901.ana.u6	The list of senators on leave and absent on assignment received from the Senate, as well as further communications to the Assembly, will be published in Annex B to today's Minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-901.ana.u7	I would warn you that qualified votes can be taken in the course of today's sitting by electronic means. Therefore, from this moment the period of 20 minutes from the notice provided for in Article 119, paragraph 1, of the Regulation (at 11.04).
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-901.ana.u8	The next item is the continuation of the debate on draft law Nos. 2208, already approved by the Chamber of Deputies, and 2230. I would remind you that during yesterday's afternoon's sitting the articles of draft law No 2208, in the text proposed by the Commission, and the amendments and agendas submitted to them, were concluded.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-901.ana.u9	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-901.ana.u10	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-901.ana.u11	COMPAGNA (FL (Id-PL, PLI)). Mr President, the senators of our Group, of course with the utmost respect for those who speak differently, think that this has been one of the most inconclusive, contradictory, worst-thought-out and worst-written measures that have come to the attention of this House. A few days ago we saw on television a French minister, Le Maire, who was asked on that occasion whether he would ever file a complaint for sexual harassment. The Minister replied that he would absolutely never do so because the complaint is not part of his culture. A few evenings later the Minister himself had to reappear to apologize, saying that he had spoken badly. Probably, in similar cases - as my colleague Mrs Mussini has repeatedly reminded us - Italian legislation comes brilliantly to the rescue of such attitudes, because it establishes the distinction between warnings and complaints. Frankly, it is a very hypocritical border, completely outside our constitutional system, totally alien to the rule of law. It is a type of legislation that would once have been called a premium: establishing, that is, special safeguards and guaranteeing a particular regime to the reporting agent. There is something very similar to what repentance was. However, despite the rhetoric and hypocrisy of so many priests of anti-Mafia, the historical memory of the country must know how to be careful. Repentism (Governo Spadolini) was born to deal with terrorism, the kidnapping of the boy Peci, brother of the best known brigadeist (he was not lucky, because the boy Peci was equally killed). I think, then, that Giuliano Ferrara was absolutely right when yesterday morning, in an article on "Il Foglio", at a certain point he said that delaction can be a tragic necessity in a Republic even well-ordered, for example in the matter of terrorism. We were in the early 1980s when the first example of premium legislation was launched. On what the premium legislation meant, Parliament refused to investigate: there has never been on the agenda of any anti-Mafia Commission, in the last seven, eight legislatures, an inquiry into repentance, its toxic fruits and its successful fruits (there can be and there are certainly also those). What does this bill do? It introduces as the principle of private life the delation, attributes an absolute value, not relative, and fills the cheeks of the most insulting rhetoric against corruption, obviously the perceived corruption, in the aftermath of a terrible legislative failure, the Severino law, which at the origin was the ratification of an international treaty on corruption and concussion, instead to arrive, alas, in this legislature a legislative instrument to expel the head of the opposition from Parliament. In yesterday's debate, at some point, fundamental constitutional rights were at stake: the right process and the defence. Senator Palma has tried timidly to remind the rapporteur that these principles must be of higher rank than the alert, if we do not mean the delaction, that is to say the regime of legal particularism in which we go to place the reporter in the workplace and also outside of it. Well, all this has happened in indifference, perhaps even in the insuffering of the rapporteur, and from this point of view, Mr President, beyond the substance of the measure against which we shall vote, I must also express some discomfort to you. We have noticed that amendments of this kind and a measure such as this - and you had to agree - have been elegantly bypassed in the Commission by means of the formula - for the sake of charity, more than legitimate - of the Committee of Opinions. Having said that, there has never been the impression in this House that neither the rapporteur nor the Government has tried to overcome this characteristic. We are therefore witnessing, in a last fragment of rhetoric against corruption (that perceived) to another small chunk of premium legislation, while we have been foreclosed for thirty-eight years (by the law on repentance of February 6, 1980 approved for urgency and necessity because Peci's brother had been kidnapped) the possibility of giving an evaluation of what repentance meant. With this measure much worse is done: blackmail and blackmail are introduced as elements of everyday life and the coexistence between citizens is made obnoxious; and all this without clarifying anything of the strictly legal aspects (from when until, what does this mean, what does this other mean). We have tried to ask, in these days of debate, for a minimum of clarification and discussion, and I particularly thank Senator Malan, who has been very careful and who, with his amendments, has drawn our distracted attention to many aspects of the measure, but this is a measure that dishonours this House and dishonors Parliament's work. This anti-corruption rhetoric is part of the terrible repertoire of mass moralism. In the history of parliament there is an insidious opponent who goes to the square and insinuates himself in the common sense: it is moralism, the one that created this hateful figure of the reporter, of the blackmailing reporter and perhaps blackmailed. It thus arrives in an Italy where blackmail is the permanent habitat of civil life. Hence our very strong vote against it. [[Applause from the FL Group (Id-PL, PLI) and Senator Buemi. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-901.ana.u12	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-901.ana.u13	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-901.ana.u14	STEFANI (LN-Aut). Mr President, we are discussing a bill which concerns an Anglo-Saxon figure, which is in fact better known by the term whistleblower, which is also difficult to translate into Italian. As stated in the title, the measure concerns the perpetrators of reports of offences or irregularities which they have become aware of in the context of a public or private employment relationship. Integrating the figures belonging to other systems into our system involves difficulties because, like all new institutions not well characterized, they risk encountering test grounds perhaps too experimental. In fact, there is no correspondent in our legal system, it is a matrix that will have to study experience, jurisprudence and practice in order to fit, good or bad, into our system. Certainly, the literal translation of the term whistleblower seems almost to label the reporting agent with a brand of infamy, as often, in a certain type of culture can be understood. In fact, the complainant can be seen as a kind of traitor, a spy, and certainly those who report are looked at with distrust by management and colleagues. The aim of the legislation was perhaps to set up a new way of being dependent. The report should be a way of drawing attention to a fact, denouncing and highlighting illegal conduct, especially when it comes to corruption. It is obvious that the objective that we all expect is to bring our whole society back on perfectly legal tracks, to be kept at all levels, within both public and private structures. It goes without saying that, as has been pointed out, the position of the complainant, who is in a situation of fragility because, in one verse, he does not want to create problems for colleagues and, for another, he may fear retaliation. However, let us remember that if we want to talk about protecting the complainant, it is already provided for in our legal system. The draft law merely complements and amends existing legislation. This must be said because there is no need to hide behind hypocrisies. There is still a distrust of the legal order in force in this area and of a system, which may be considered unfit to cover the shoulders - pass me the expression - to those who have the courage to denounce and to draw attention to the facts. However, the legal text certainly presents difficulties and has raised doubts in us. There was also great concern about the position of anonymity and the strengthening of this position. We are talking about very difficult situations and the draft law before us also affects principles that structure law and criminal procedure. Within the latter, in particular, there is a secret inquiry. Therefore, to foresee changes in the various times and the methods of insurance of anonymity, depending on which is the subject to which the fact is denounced, seems a hypothesis that becomes farraginosa, falling back in the bad way of making legislation to which perhaps Italy has been accustomed for too many years. We also remember that corruption is unfortunately still sadly widespread in our years and it is one of the phenomena that weigh not only the criminal system, but also the private and public systems because it alters the same competition; it is in fact amazing how the effect of corruption can affect the costs of a work. However, these phenomena are becoming social costs because, in an attempt to combat them, we get to insert forms of self-protection and bureaucracy that, at times, go to facilitate the criminals. In the reading of a rule it is easy to find the loophole, risking to weigh the situation of honesty when it works and is in a situation of greater difficulty for the bureaucracy and the amount of documents to be prepared to demonstrate its honesty. Of course, the complainant's position is certainly important in our legal system, because the best prevention is the control of the citizen against the activity of the public sector or the private sector. Moreover, the control between ourselves can have positive objectives and can have positive effects: it is a sort of mutual social control, but we must be careful not to fall, on the contrary, in a witch hunt and a form of internal inquisition in which everyone is against everyone and sometimes the objectives transcend from the search for legality in a search for personal situations. We constantly insist and do not deny the absolute need for transparency of public activity as well as that of private activity; however, the draft law in question unfortunately has characteristics common to many other regulations that have positive objectives, but that then fall into technicalities or in a wrong way of lawmaking. The quality of the legislation is fundamental and it has been noted several times that the standardization so punctual, borbonic, full of engravings and commas risks creating smokeiness and problematicity from the interpretative point of view, then giving the judiciary an interpretation that may come late with respect to the infamy and defamation that can be had in a previous period, that is when the fact is denounced; I mean that when you start any kind of procedure everyone is on the banks of the accused and everyone finds themselves being polluted, put to the sedan, ruined waiting for a response from the judiciary, that may come some time later, healing from the legal point of view, but not from the social one. We wonder about the adequacy of this instrument to combat the phenomenon. In fact, we need to find a form of stability of the norm, which cannot be constantly changed, changed, paragraphed, so as to always leave room for interpretations. We must also take due account of the functioning of this rule, but only posterity will be able to give a firm judgment in this regard. There is a potential conflict between the need for the stability of the system and that of the protection of the reporting agent: unfortunately there are, on the one hand, the damage that can be described as certain and immediate on the image and functioning of an institution, a firm, an institution and then, against this type of interest, there is the sometimes uncertain outcome of a procedure as it is activated. It must therefore be understood whether this law has the capacity to balance all this and in this respect we have doubts. That is why the Group of the North Legacy is abstaining on the measure under discussion, which wants to be a conservative vote because we first understand how a rule will work that leaves us many doubts at the moment. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-901.ana.u15	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-901.ana.u16	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-901.ana.u17	MAZZONI (ALA-SCLP). Mr President, the draft law under consideration stems from the mere illusion that, by encouraging delation, public ethics can be improved, but I would be tempted to say that delation is itself a manifestation of poor ethics. I have already mentioned in general discussion that in our legal system there are already the Severino law, two legislative decrees of 2001 and the legislation that established the Authority anti-corruption to protect the public employee who reports cases of corruption or other offences in the workplace: both in the single text on public employment and in labour law it is established that employees who report crimes cannot be mugged, sanctioned, fired, and, if this happens, those who do it or commit a crime in turn or commit disciplinary offences. Therefore, we already have adequate laws to protect positive civicism and to punish crimes or abuses, in the public sector as well as in the private sector. We must then ask ourselves whether the law you are about to approve is really necessary or rather the effect of a precise ideology that arises from the culture of suspicion and social envy. The text, moreover, contains obvious criticalities, starting from the premiality regarding behaviors that, if not unfair, certainly deserve protection, but the law should at least specify better the conduct of abuse subject to reporting, and outline in a more clear way the respect of the presumption of not guilty. It excludes the applicability of the new discipline to reports that constitute the crime of slander or defamation, but this too is already provided for in the so-called Severino law. It shall be prohibited to disclose the identity of the reporter in the absence of the consent of the reporter and it shall be possible to make the report anonymous in cases where it is properly documented. But what does "appropriately documented" mean? This legislature will now pass to history as the one that has introduced in our legal system the most vague and therefore most dangerous and illiberal offences, such as the trafficking of influences, and I invite you to consider how devastating the introduction of this mechanism of delaction through anonymous reports in public offices and private companies, which will first of all lead to a slowing down of administrative activity, as it will unfortunately be inevitable that procedures based on hatred and career cravings are also opened, rather than on substance. The principle of mandatory denunciation of private citizens has also been introduced into this law. But our legal system does not require individuals to report the crimes they have become aware of, except in the case of crimes against the personality of the State. This right-duty is not covered, and when it comes to the practical application of this legislation it will certainly pose the problem of its unconstitutionality. It is also a question of rules which are all unbalanced in favour of the complainant, whereas there is little or no guarantee of the complainant. Moreover, if denouncing is a duty, why should anyone do so be rewarded? And can it really be argued that the good faith of the complainant is excluded only when serious fault is established? Here we speak of good faith, a category of the soul, but in law there are much more specific categories: there is the malice, there is the guilt, that can be conscious guilt, grave fault, light guilt. In short, even before this measure the judge already has in hand all the tools to decide whether a complaint was made for hatred or envy, and not for the good of the State or the company. We have to ask ourselves: what is the border? What does it mean that the complainant considers that it is highly likely that the unlawful conduct or abuse has occurred? In this way the reversal of the burden of proof is surreptitiously confirmed, an aberration that has so far existed only in sports justice in Italy. And to think that the text has also been improved compared to the original one. But the mechanism triggered will almost never produce negative effects on the complainant, who will remain covered and safe in all cases where he has not acted with serious guilt, but, as I have already said, it is certainly not easy to specify what is serious fault and what is not. Instead, the effects will be very heavy on the denounced, which, for an indefinite period of time, will be compromised the career, as well as ending up in the mincer of the media's pillage. Our Constitution is a formal guarantee, which protects the freedom and dignity of people, but this part has long been supplanted by the Material Constitution, given that the dignity of people is too often trampled on, for example with the publication of interceptions that have nothing to do with judicial profiles; interceptions acquired by the State with public money and used to destroy the dignity not only of people investigated, but also of those who are not even suspected of having committed crimes. I'll finish. The rationale of this law, namely preventing crimes and combating corruption, can only be accepted, and also that of protecting those who have the courage to denounce abuses, but its content not only worsens existing rules, but also risks disrupting the principle of social and civil coexistence, which is one of the cornerstones of a democratic and liberal state. It is no coincidence that someone in this House referred to dictatorships of the last century, which also based their power on delaction. But our founders wanted Italy as a Republic founded on work, certainly not on the delation in jobs. [[Applause from Senators Gambaro, Giovanardi and Buemi.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-901.ana.u18	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-901.ana.u19	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-901.ana.u20	RICHIUTI (Art. 1-MDP). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, mafias and corruption are a national emergency. Personally, I and many other senators in this House have repeated it to the point of nausea: but it is not enough, of course. We will continue to say this and to spread the message of Pope Francis, who said repeatedly that those who live in corruption eat dirty bread. Just a few days ago Transparency International published its annual report and Italy is embarrassing by the level of corruption in Europe. Worse than us, they only make Bulgaria and Greece. In words, we all tend to agree. However, when you come to the tools to fight corruption, you begin the distinctions, the chinese, the baroque, in which lawyers are masters and the right to be wary. Instead, we must be clear and determined in the search and practice of the instruments for combating the sale of public functions, clientele, abuse and favoritism that undermine the root of civil life and social capital, which is made of the confidence of citizens in themselves and in their institutions. On Thursday, Mr President, Andrea Franzoso's book was presented in the Zuccari room. Who was this guy? In fact, who is it? He is a whistleblower, a person who had to see the magicians, the robberies and the corruption and did not turn his head. He's been looking at cards, doing the checks he was supposed to do, and he's seen the corruption in his face. He pointed out to whom he should, but that someone turned his face on the other side; indeed, he urged him to let it go. So he reported it. Then, however, he paid first. It is very true that the person whom he had pointed out as the author of wrongdoing has been condemned. But retaliation did not spare him and he finds himself out of work, even if he is a person of very high professionalism and mirrored honesty. You see, colleagues, corruption, as criminals say, is a necessary contest crime, that is, you cannot do it yourself. It takes a corruptive arrangement, a corruptor that gives or promises and a corrupt one that gets given or promised. The corrupt have a covenant and their interest is not to denounce each other. That's why it takes a third, an ear and a neutral eye to report if you find something, such as, for example, a crest on a reimbursement expenses, a contract given without a contest, a test done badly. With this bill we want to improve the provision already introduced by the Severino law, to strengthen the protection of reporters, to prevent retaliations from being unpunished, to prevent the mobbing and social isolation that the complainant suffers from ruining his person and his family. The reporter should be, not only protected, but rewarded as is done in the United States. The path of remedies against retaliation must be more expedited and safe. The legislative system must be a warning to the corrupt, not an obstacle course for those who report. We will vote in favour of this bill and tell all the Andrea Franzoso of Italy to move on! We say this to the tax law researcher who recently denounced the vermin of university competitions in his field; and we say this to all the employees of the local authorities who watch the robberies in several technical offices around the country. The other leg of our struggle is of course also that of the courageous journalists who denounce the wrongdoing they discover and who are then intimidated with millionaire lawsuits and pretentious judicial actions or, even, are murdered, as a success to the journalist Daphne Galicia in Malta two days ago, murdered because he denounced corruption in his country. But this is the debate on a next occasion. [[Applause from the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and ……]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-901.ana.u21	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-901.ana.u22	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-901.ana.u23	MUSSINI (Mixed). Mr President, in this House we have really heard everything, from the word blackmail to the usual terms by which those who, frankly, do not hesitate to call heroes convinced that they live better in a more just and legal state. I would, however, like to use the time available to me not to respond punctually to everything I have heard in this House, but to give to those who listen to us, and to those who may be called to vote without having participated in the legislative process in depth, in instruments to understand what has been done and what has not been done. Mr President, perhaps this was not really the legislature in order to reach a really useful measure on this issue, but at least we have managed to move something. As has been said several times, normative references already exist in our legal system, embodied in the law 6 November 2012, n. 190 and in the legislative decree 8 June 2001, n. 231. However, our country has been referred several times by the European Union. In the European Commission's 2014 Report on the fight against corruption, we were reminded that the legislation for the prevention and repression of corruption in our country was general and not exhaustive enough, not being able to cover all aspects of the report and, above all, to provide the necessary safeguards. Finally, a serious gap that we could have filled definitively and precisely today, but we cannot do so, by introducing little more than a title, concerns the protection of reporters in the private sector. The European Union's demands were very precise: clear channels for efficiency of law, effective protection and awareness-raising campaigns. After the words heard today, we are all called upon to raise awareness in order to irrevocably remove from our culture the definitions we have found today. The aim, in fact, is to strengthen the fight against corruption, which is a duty towards the country and young people. In a corrupt country, not only the economy, but also development, creativity and - not least - merit are severely damaged. Many times we have heard the merit invoked in abstract terms. The path we are following certainly does not end with the measure that - I hope - we will approve today. It is a long path, that wants to eradicate definitively in our country the temptation, that snakes at all levels, to resolve the business not with the merit and the justification of its own preparation and competitive ability, but lengthening some money, misusing the roles of responsibility and taking advantage of the benefits linked to the role and certainly not to the people. I personally presented a bill in which I followed the guidelines of ANAC, which are timely and exhaustive. It would have been enough to follow them to fully implement the demands of the European Union. This measure lacks certain elements, such as clear channels and procedures, and a unified and unified investiture which could also solve the doubts that certainly lie in the minds of those who - perhaps - have a favourable or prudential attitude, as I have heard from my colleagues in the North League. In fact, when we talk about alerts, we activate channels that must first lead to a verification of them. It is very serious that the draft law under consideration lacks the provision of a fund, which is an essential concrete instrument. In the measure are covered refunds and compensations, but we keep in mind that ex post are provided, therefore at a later time that could also be very long and difficult, while the reporter would need immediate protection. In fact, I dare say that the reporter needs reassurance so that he can feel calm in his report. Often the reporter finds himself in a subordinate condition with respect to subjects who can apply against him any form of retaliation. Then could we say that only the rich, only those who have an economic availability will be allowed to report? Unfortunately, if the government does not engage in the creation of a fund, the doubt is real. Honesty more and more often, in our country, becomes the monopoly of those who can afford it. Shall we give this message? I'm addressing the government representative. This request was passed with an agenda, when an amendment could easily be adopted, giving a strong signal: no, it does not have to be so. The reporting and the search for legality, even at the cost of themselves and their own security, cannot be reserved only for those who have the economic availability to be above blackmail. So, government representatives, let's create this fund and do it without fear. The measure, however, lacks all the private. However, Mr President, the amendment I tabled to introduce clear procedures in the private sector received your favourable opinion. Who knows what happened, then, outside the transparent debate within the Commission. What's bothering you? It is clear that there is a fear, that there are reservations and fears about putting in place a truly effective system of protection. I believe that the debate in this House has given a very tangible and plastic dimension to what fears are. I fear that these fears are also linked to a reserve in seeing a genuine and democratic involvement of citizenship in a path of affirmation of legality. I think this is a law first for young people. The reporters are mainly young people, who therefore also burn the possibility of having a career or a recognition. Unfortunately, what is happening in this country today is not what happens in the United States, where reporters are considered reliable subjects, who willingly rely on a job in their companies. Not in Italy: Reporters are still seen with suspicion. It is a law for citizens, it is a profoundly democratic law, even if it is incomplete. It is a law that seeks to overcome the negative prejudice of those who imagine that only in the hierarchy there is the safeguard of the proper functioning of the work. I heard words referring to the value of a hierarchy. Well, I have come to this House with the value of a horizontal dimension, of a partnership, which I believe this law can give back. What's good? It's good to have given the audience some extra tools. There is good the fact that in paragraph 5 are explicitly referred to those guidelines from the DAC to which it is hoped that then, in the implementation of this law, we can make full reference. It is good to reverse the burden of proof. However, the scenario remains very smoky, because we will have a job judge who will find himself with the need to determine whether or not the person in front is a whistleblower. So, between jumps and shakes, however a small step forward we did. Now it is in the hands of a little 'of everyone, even those who have to do those awareness campaigns already started by many. For this reason, I feel I can declare the vote in favour not only of the undersigned and of the many Senators of the Mixed Group who are not members or who are representatives of individual components, but I also declare it on behalf of the most substantial members of the Group of which I belong, who are Italian Left-SEL, Italy of Values and of course, as I have already said, all the other Senators representing individual components. [[Applause from the Misso-SI-SEL Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-901.ana.u24	We greet students, students and professors of the Technical Institute Carlo Alberto Dalla Chiesa di Partinico, in the province of Palermo, who follow our work. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-901.ana.u25	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-901.ana.u26	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-901.ana.u27	CRIMI (M5S). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, first of all let me take this opportunity to thank all those citizens who last week decided to guard Piazza Montecitorio to say no to an electoral law fraud. I thank those who on a working day have decided to take a long journey, in some cases, in order to express their dissent and that, even more numerous, next week will make their voice heard outside the Senate. To them goes all my gratitude and to them should go the gratitude of the whole country: they put their face on us. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] They put their faces on us like so many other citizens would like to do to report corruption, but today they have no protection. Stop being English, be Italian. Mr President, that is the sentence that contains all the rottenness of our country. It was the answer that Philip, of the University of Florence, heard from one of his professors after denouncing the irregularities. Do you understand? "Make Italian": this phrase should make us ashamed, yet it is the reality of our country. There is not yet a law that protects those who denounce corruption and evil. This law will be passed here but will have to pass the scrutiny of the House. Let's figure out what we're talking about. This law serves to protect - the main objective is that, nothing else - those who denounce corruption and malpractice in the public administration. Often those who denounce are put aside, mobbed, risk retaliation, are pushed to silence, to pretend nothing, or are pointed to as spy, spy, cop, traitor. We need to change this country's cultural model. In Italy there is no term to define who denounces corruption in order to put an end to evil and bring honesty. We need to use an English term and that too is something we should be ashamed of. We call them whistleblower, using an English term, because we couldn't find an appropriate term. In the Italian dictionary there is no word that can translate whistleblowing and give the positive sense of good practice and this says a lot about the path that we still have to face. This law, I would like to recall, bears the signature of the 5 Star Movement: we are not those of the no, but we are also those of the serious and concrete proposals. I would like once again to highlight the role of the Senate, so reproached by a majority who wanted to abolish it, that today, however, it was found, fortunately, to be able to modify and improve a text that had been fired by the House with many critical issues, that made it in fact useless, and that, in some cases, even presented dangers to those who denounced it. This Senate will soon be voting on the swindle electoral law. I had written to discuss it in the text of my speech, unfortunately I had to correct it because the debate was killed. I was saying this senate is gonna be voting on the swindle electoral law. Let us prove that we are not a House of vassals; let us take back the role that belongs to what is called the Upper House and, also by electoral law, let us not abdicate to the role that the Constitution gives us. Have the courage to stop and modify it, to correct its distortions. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] Returning to us and this law, corruption is the worst plague in this country; it needs the courage to denounce and put our faces on it. I would like to remind everyone of the epochal importance that the law on witnesses of justice has had; I am not referring to repentants (those clearly have another kind of profile), but to those who assist or are victims of mafia crimes; I am referring to the protections reserved, for example, to those who denounce the demand for lace. They are those laws that have given a definitive turning point to the anti-mafia fight. You, Mr President, from the top of your role as a high-ranking anti-mafia magistrate will surely remember the essential role of those laws in the fight against the mafia. Today corruption is the cancer of this country, like the mafia; indeed, the mafia feeds on corruption and corruption feeds on mafia. The two aspects are intertwined and even those who denounce corruptive phenomena must have the protection that belongs to them. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] This law could be the keystone, the epochal turning point that we all expected. If we could combine this with the provocative agent, which we have tried to introduce more than once, we would create the necessary basis for the definitive eradication of corruption from the country. For now we will settle for this, but when we are in the government - and we will soon be - corruption will be eradicated with every necessary tool for honesty to return to fashion. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] We are going to vote in favour of this law, which, as we said, has been corrected in relation to the version that was fired by the House. Today it presents itself as a good law from which to start for the protection of those who denounce corruption. Only by implementing it will we be able to verify the necessary corrections to improve it. We and all honest citizens hope that this approval is not just a facade, a fig leaf, as someone is used to do for electoral purposes, but that everyone will make a commitment to eliminate any doubt that this law is the price to pay for someone to vote on the electoral law. We hope that this will not happen and we also count on the role of the presidency of the Senate, which has been so much spent on the adoption of this measure, so that it can be a guarantor and that once it has arrived in the House, it will not be sunk down, nor used as an exchange commodity for other purposes. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] President, I would like to thank all the associations and citizens who have signed the various petitions and who in recent years have strongly wanted and insisted on finally having a law that protects those who denounce the evil in the public administration. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-901.ana.u28	Senator Crimes, your speech has given me the opportunity to see Senator Airola next to you, who has been unable to attend the sessions of the Assembly for a few months for a vile and serious attack suffered and not for proceedings concerning the orderly conduct of the Assembly's proceedings. We welcome him back. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-901.ana.u29	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-901.ana.u30	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-901.ana.u31	Mr Pagliari (PD). Mr President, the Group of the Party of European Socialists will vote in favour of this law, which, if it becomes so, will be so for the decisive vote of the Group of the Party of European Socialists, which, with the awareness of its limitations, in terms of administrative and political ethics, does not give lessons, but does not take lessons. [[Applause from the PD Group]] This law, if one then comes out of the demagogic rhetoric of certain statements, tries to be a contribution to the absolutely fundamental theme of the moralization of social life, rather than of public life. Corruption or misconception, in fact, before having criminal importance, develop unfortunately in the dynamics of relationships that escape this dimension and this importance. It is there that there is a need to have a mechanism that allows that kind of information, that can put those who have responsibility for the management of a company or a public body in a position to stop degenerative phenomena in public or private action. We are well aware that corruption is a phenomenon that almost always involves the public and the private and therefore, from this point of view, the need is to operate both in one area and in the other. This is the point on which the bill stops at our examination, which certainly remains perfectible even when it goes to the approval. I think it should be stressed, however, that this draft law is based on a legal framework that has already been channeled on this subject, in order to offer greater guarantees in the public sector and to regulate in the private sector the issue of reporting in the general interest. I would like to stress here that this is an alert, we are not in the context of the notitia crime given to prosecutors. We are in the context of a report of a disorder and a behaviour that may appear abnormal and can hide a fact relevant from the criminal point of view, but also of the internal relationships to a company or a public body: it therefore does not have the characteristics of the criminal denunciation, nor must it assume them. In this respect, another issue has been raised: in the debate it has been said that there is not enough guarantee for the denounced. I repeat that in this area the law and the mechanism provided for therein can always be improved. However, I believe that this instrument, at a time when it highlights the sanctions for the complainant who makes use of this rule instrumentally in the negative sense, constitutes a guarantee for the same denounced, which, moreover, has other means to protect itself, if the alert is also of a public nature or is made public. In my opinion, these considerations are sufficient to justify the Democratic Party's vote in favour, which is a conscious vote of the importance of the measure, the complexity of the issue and the need to monitor its implementation, in order to take all those measures that can better calibrate and modulate the discipline, according to the protection of all interests. However, this vote is also aware that, in the face of the corrupting phenomenon, with all its impact on gross domestic product, as well as on the image of this country and its attractiveness for foreign investors, a discipline that tends to prevent forms of corruption or bad administration, contributing to the improvement of the overall quality of social and economic relations, is a necessary act towards the country. It is an act that we carry out, as I said before, in the awareness that we are a political force that takes no lessons in political ethics from anyone and must not give them to anyone. However, we are equally aware that, if this measure goes to the final vote and to the approval, the merit is of the PD and not of others. [[Applause from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-901.ana.u32	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-901.ana.u33	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-901.ana.u34	MALAN (FI-PdL XVII). Mr President, as I have already said during the examination of the amendments and the general debate, we are absolutely in favour of combating every episode of illice and corruption in the public administration. We believe that those who report these irregularities, by making a concrete contribution to eradicating unfair behaviour within the public administration, should be protected. We do not believe, however, that the proposed text achieves these objectives, as it can leave room for instrumental warnings that give way to those who make it possible to obtain certain safeguards, more than necessary in the event that the contribution to justice is significant. In this case, however, it is not - even by the explicit admission of some Members who have spoken - because there is no demand for the determination of the accusations and reports. Indeterminateness therefore risks creating a poor functioning and exploitation of what is proposed in this text and a further slowdown in the processes of public administration. For this reason, we are voting against this draft law, precisely because we are in favour of a public administration serving citizens. First of all, public administration must think about providing services efficiently and fairly to its citizens, so it must not be burdened with further tasks that are almost exclusively bureaucratic and not substantial. I therefore repeat the vote against. [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-901.ana.u35	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-901.ana.u36	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-901.ana.u37	MANCUSO (AP-CpE-NCD). Mr President, I would ask you to hand over the written text of my speech, and to vote in favour of it. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. The Presidency authorizes it to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-901.ana.u38	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote in dissent from my Group.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-901.ana.u39	I take note of that and give you the floor.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-901.ana.u40	SACCONI (AP-CpE-NCD). Mr President, in dissent from the Group, I declare my firm opposition to this measure. An opposition convinced and motivated by the fact that it is oriented exclusively to the protection of the person who, in public as in private activities, signals alleged pathologies. The rules do not, on the other hand, protect the need for stability of public functions and productive activities from the reckless accusations that produce immediate traumatic effects, in the face of a verification of their validity often carried out in the long term. The absence of a balance in discipline can be devastating. In particular in public administrations, where the good employer is almost always absent, feelings of envy and revenge can unleash with the practical consequence of compromising the public good which should constitute its purpose. God forbid and free us from the unnatural principle fiat iustitia et pereat mundus. Finally, I am concerned that, for merely opportunistic reasons, many colleagues and many colleagues are probably going to vote on the measure while fully agreeing with the comments I have made here.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-901.ana.u41	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote in dissent from my Group.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-901.ana.u42	I take note of that and give you the floor.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-901.ana.u43	BUEMI (Aut (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT)-PSI-MAIE). Mr President, my fellow Senators of the Italian Socialist Party will vote against this measure. The reasons are simple and clear: it is an unconstitutional bill for obvious limitations to the right to defence that must always be guaranteed. A derogation from this right, guaranteed by our Constitution, makes a criminal order pass into a democratic state to a non-democratic system. Mr President, those who say that those who do not want this measure are in favour of softening the fight against mystifying corruption: we are in favour of a fight without a neighborhood against corruption, against evil in general, the mafias and terrorism, but we believe that a democratic state must do so in full respect of the firm constitutional principles that cannot be broken down in our system. Too many times, in recent years, derogations have been made from these basic principles, except then weeping crocodile tears after the sanctioning of the Constitutional Court and the European Court of Human Rights. Senator Crimes, the behavior of the person who, knowing corruption and seeing a crime (not making illations or hypotheses) denounces it to the judicial authority or the competent authority is simply that of a loyal citizen to the State, a State in which it is necessary to do its duty - I repeat - without being rewarded, because its duty derives from the respect of the law and its application. In the same way, I think we should not accept the idea that there are too many Don Abbondios around, because we don't need them. We do not even need good people, in the Manzoni sense of the term, nor unnamed people, and you know, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, what it means to be dubbed in Manzoni's sense: it means to be a depositary of the arbitrariness. For this reason, we Socialists will vote for a clear and unconditional no.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-901.ana.u44	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote in dissent from my Group.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-901.ana.u45	I take note of that and give you the floor.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-901.ana.u46	Mr Giovanardi (PL-Id) Mr President, I rise to express and to justify my abstention vote. I would like to ask my colleagues in the Democratic Party: why have the monitoring committees on the acts of local authorities been removed? Why was the figure of the municipal secretary, who served as guardian of legality, removed? Why today are citizens forced to make a criminal complaint or to turn to the TAR, while before there was a technical body that guaranteed everyone, even the individual citizen, with respect to the legality and the payment to the law of the acts of the local authorities? You wanted your hands free on the local authorities for political reasons. Instead of the city secretary, you have placed a party official or a person connected to the mayor, without any legal control and today you are using such tools. [[Applause from Senators Buemi and Sacconi]] I challenge you, then, to restore the control committees and the function of control over the legality of the municipal secretary, who you have repealed for ideological reasons, and then arrive at the delation to indicate situations on which, first, at institutional level, there was a control through prefectures. The citizen thus had the guarantee, without spending anything, that the acts produced by the local authorities, where corruption is lurking, were legal. It is your responsibility to have created this dramatic situation at local level. [[Applause from Senator Liuzzi.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-901.ana.u47	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-901.ana.u48	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-901.ana.u49	SANTANGELO (M5S). We call for the vote to be taken by simultaneous ballot by electronic means.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-901.ana.u50	I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I refer to the nominal vote by simultaneous ballot of bill No 2208, as a whole, in the amended text. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). [[Applause from the M5S Group]] The draft law No 2230 is therefore absorbed.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-901.ana.u51	The motions, questions and questions received by the Presidency will be published in Annex B to today's report. I remember that the Senate will come back to meet in public today, at 4 p.m., on the same agenda. The sitting was closed at 12.09 p.m.
