ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-783.ana.u1	The sitting was opened at 11:01 a.m. The Minutes shall be read. Mr PETRAGLIA, Secretary, gave a reading of the Minutes of the afternoon sitting on 9 March. PRESIDENT. - The debate is Since there were no comments, the Minutes were approved.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-783.ana.u2	The list of senators on leave and absent on assignment received from the Senate, as well as further communications to the Assembly, will be published in Annex B to today's Minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-783.ana.u3	I would warn you that qualified votes can be taken in the course of today's sitting by electronic means. Therefore, from this moment on, the period of 20 minutes from the notice provided for in Article 119 (1) of the Rules of Procedure (at 11.04 a.m.).
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-783.ana.u4	The next item is the debate on motions 1-00494 (text 2) tabled by Senator Bencini and other senators, 1-00717, tabled by Senator Mandelli and other senators, by abbreviated procedure pursuant to Rule 157 (3) of the Rules of Procedure, 1-00740, tabled by Senator Gaetti and other senators, and 1-00741, presented by Senator Barani and other senators, on initiatives against the spread of AIDS. In view of the number of motions, Members under discussion and explanations of vote, the five-minute deadline will be peremptory. I call Senator Bencini to explain motion No 494 (text 2).
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-783.ana.u5	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, since the report I am about to present is written, if I do not have time to explain it all, my colleagues will be able to read it. Today we are talking about AIDS, and we know that 1 December is World AIDS Day, the aim of which is precisely to raise awareness and combat the disease. UNAIDS, the United Nations program, has released the data contained in an annual report, revealing that new infections of viruses on human immunodeficiency are down by 35 percent compared to the ceiling of fifteen years ago. However, the number is always important and continues, unfortunately, to increase, despite the fact that treatments have been found and the population has nevertheless become aware of what AIDS is. So it is not yet time to sing victory. The estimates are 36.8 million people with HIV in 2014 (of course in the world). In Italy, the proportion of foreigners among new HIV infection diagnoses increased to 27.1 percent in 2014, with an absolute number of 1,002 cases per year. In particular, the incidence of new HIV diagnosis was 19.2 percent, still out of 100,000 foreign residents, compared to a 4.7% incidence of 100,000 Italian residents. From this it is understood that, probably, foreigners have a different knowledge and culture, so, unlike the Italians, they manage to control and prevent the disease to a lesser extent. The World Day for the fight against AIDS, in addition to keeping alive the memory of the many people who have disappeared in the last thirty years, aims to increase support for those who have contracted HIV infection, to raise awareness and, not least, support them, as well as to increase the funds available for research, so as to arrive at a definitive therapy or, better yet, a vaccine; and from the latest research we have seen that we are very close to this objective. In Italy every year there are 4,000 new cases: just think that, only in 2015, 73 were registered in Bologna. HIV causes damage to our immune system and the resulting infection leads to an immunodeficiency such as to cause death for a pluripathology. In recent years, the proportion of people arriving at the declared AIDS stage has increased, and so they ignore their HIV-positiveness. This significantly reduces the chances of responding to treatment. Precisely for this reason it is important to do prevention and to inform about how you can avoid getting infected with this virus: first to stay healthy and, in case you come into contact with it, it is important to get to know the disease as soon as possible, precisely in order to be able to access the cures and therefore have a greater hope of life. Life expectancy grows, in fact, if you anticipate the beginning of the cure. Today, thanks to the care, you get to live up to sixty - three years: instead, if you get to know the disease when AIDS is proclaimed, the hope of life is drastically shortened. Prevention is therefore essential, which also depends on people's choices (such as abstaining from risky relationships or regular use of condoms). It is just as important to take the test, especially when you start a new relationship or when you want to conceive a child (it is the famous zero-time test: knowing your situation helps to understand if you are free from infections). Mr President, since the text of the motion is long and there is little time at my disposal, I shall skip a few passages. What interests me to focus is that the Ministry of Health, in December 2016, has prepared a national plan against AIDS, which was to follow the approval of the Higher Health Council, in which some directives were developed that would then have to be taken into consideration by all regions. This motion therefore urges the Ministry of Health, the Department of Health, to promote a series of initiatives to put people in a position to be aware of what it means to prevent, so as to avoid them having to be treated later. In this way important social damage is prevented, primarily to the person and in secundis to the health system, which thus avoids spending money to cure people who might not have contracted the disease, if well informed and protected. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I call Senator Mandelli to explain motion No 717.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-783.ana.u6	Mr President, Mr President-in-Office of the Government, ladies and gentlemen, this morning we are dealing with a very dramatic phenomenon. In Italy, since 1982 (i.e. since the beginning of the epidemic), over 68,000 cases of AIDS have been reported, causing more than 43,000 deaths. Data reported by the Higher Institute of Health in 2016 show that 3.444 new HIV infection diagnoses were reported in 2015, representing 5.7 new cases per 100,000 residents. This impact places Italy in the thirteenth place among the nations of the European Union. The regions with the highest incidence are Lazio, Lombardy, Liguria and Emilia-Romagna. People who discovered they had HIV in 2015 were males in 77.4 percent of cases. The median age was thirty-nine years for males and thirty-six for females. Regarding the mode of transmission, the proportion of cases of injection transmission decreases, while cases attributable to sexual transmission increase. The level of awareness of the risks of infection and the knowledge of behavior to avoid infection are dramatically low throughout the population, especially in the younger age groups. Recent national research has shown that adults and adolescents are uninformed or ill-informed compared to HIV. By way of example, only 5.2 percent of children between fifteen and nineteen know what the window interval is, namely the key information to properly access the HIV test and, even today, 20 percent of people believe that AIDS is a disease that mainly affects homosexuals and drug addicts. In recent years, in fact, the proportion of people arriving at the stage of AIDS has increased, ignoring their HIV-positiveness, so the chances of a positive response to treatment have significantly decreased. The last available figure indicates a proportion of 67.9 percent. In 2017 around 3,800 new HIV infections are expected in Italy, corresponding to 6.1 new cases per 100,000 residents. These data show that HIV is by no means a problem solved. It would be a serious mistake to continue to think of HIV as a disease that affects only a small part of the population, as was widely believed in the 1980s. I would also like to highlight how our country excels in HIV treatment protocols. There have been many scientific advances in the field of pharmacology and it is important that advances in science are always available to the sick. On the other hand, however, prevention in our country is extremely lacking, both because of the absence of information actions aimed at the population, and because of the lack of a serious health training project for the younger generations and, in particular, in the prevention of sexually transmitted diseases. In the light of all this, the need for action to be taken to plan and develop serious and concrete initiatives for the prevention and effective treatment of HIV and the need to develop projects to deepen the level of knowledge of the population, to prevent people not aware of being positive to the virus from unintentionally delaying access to treatment, with serious risks to their health. To this end, I would like to commit the Government on three points: to ensure the concrete implementation of the new national AIDS action plan, now under consideration by the Higher Health Council, which we hope will be transmitted to the State-Regions Conference in a short time to facilitate access to the test, to ensure disease treatment, including by making innovative medicines even more accessible, and to promote patient care, to finance specific multi-annual interventions on AIDS prevention, information and research and, finally, to include the fight against HIV and sexually transmitted diseases in the curricula for the new generations and to support information and active involvement in these programmes of the most at risk populations. [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII and Senator D'Ambrosio Lettieri]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-783.ana.u7	I call Senator Gaetti to explain motion No 740.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-783.ana.u8	Mr President, AIDS is an extremely important problem, although sometimes, given that the number of new infections is not very high in Italy every year, it would tend to underestimate it generally. In fact, it has been found that the majority of those affected are male (about 67 percent) and that the main cause of transmission of this infection, in 85 percent of cases, is unprotected sex: 33 percent of this group are foreign citizens, who often know little about the disease. It is already clear from these few figures what our motion is about: the Government is asked above all to commit itself to dealing with the implementation of the strategies put in place to deal with HIV infection, so that Parliament can have a certain vision. The motion also calls for the technical health committee, operating at the Ministry, to work best; and very concrete actions, especially on the use of condoms, such as a reduction of VAT in order to reduce the price, or to assess the appropriateness, in the case of particular categories of persons, of having a distribution, if not free, at least privileged, also through the National Health Service. All this goes through information that must be addressed not only to the population in general, but also to schools, where there should be education from the point of view not only health, but also sentimental. It is also called upon to consider, in the most pronounced situations of illness, the possibility of early retirement, since we know that stress also affects life prospects. Of course, these are situations that will have to be properly assessed. It is also called for to continue working with international institutions, and not only to analyse the phenomenon as a whole, but also to start thinking about specific actions to combat it. We also ask you to verify the work done and, above all, how the funds given to the regions are used under the 2012 agreement, in order to determine whether or not the resources have been used to the best. We also call for anonymity in all analyses in order to encourage them and, above all, to make clear which categories of people are at risk. In fact, we do not believe that there should be sweeping investigations at excessive costs, without a real relationship between cost and benefit. Once people have been educated and know their own state of risk, they will have to undergo visits at this point in order to have an early diagnosis and, therefore, a better life expectancy. I would also like to point out that, after the great epidemic of recent years, our National Health Service has created centres of excellence with regard to treatment. In our view, the greatest investment to be supported now must be concentrated on prevention and not on treatment and, therefore, resources should be devoted not to the study of new drugs or new methodologies, but to prevention. Our motion, therefore, focuses the main elements on this very point. [[Applause from the M5S Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-783.ana.u9	I call Senator D'Anna to explain motion No 741.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-783.ana.u10	Mr President, our motion, in addition to restating what has already been said on the issue of the prevention of HIV-related disease, wishes to highlight another aspect. Because of the increase in cases and, above all, the change in the type of people affected, which has increased from 8% to 85% of heterosexuals, it is no longer a disease that only affects homosexuals or drug addicts. Secondly, the motion deals with another scourge in parallel with HIV and, above all, in central southern Italy, has more victims, at least in our country, than the HIV virus: I am talking about the hepatitis C virus, so-called HCV, which is also sexually transmitted, also characterized by window-times compared to the manifestation of infection, which produces the devastation of the liver, reaching up to cirrhosis and cancer cirrhosis. I believe that these two endemic diseases, almost always prognosisous, should be monitored, even if, in the case of HCV, modern antiviral drugs have led to the destruction of the virus or viral material circulating in the blood. However, there are still bureaucratic difficulties and not all patients are able to access treatment due to prescriptive difficulties, since drugs - by chance - in Italy always cost much more than in other countries of Europe. On this point I do not say that we should set up a committee of inquiry, but we should at least carry out a thorough examination, because we can never understand why a cure that, in Turkey, Greece or in some other Mediterranean country costs 800 or 1,000 euros, in Italy must be paid 8,000, 9,000 or 10,000 euros. I believe that the ministers of health who succeeded from various lustres to this part, while having very much at heart the dynamics of drugs, the expense on drugs and the introduction of new products through AIFA within the national prontuario, have never managed to make sure that these drugs had in Italy a low cost and equivalent to the cost they have in other European countries. We have therefore wanted to put these two scourges together, also because, since the discovery of the HIV virus, we have always noticed an imbalance in advertising and in the very well-founded concerns about HIV viral affection, compared to an incomprehensible neglect of the HCV pandemic. So, with our motion we propose a combined arrangement that takes into account both pathologies.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-783.ana.u11	I would like to say that the G1 agenda has been presented, which has already been printed and distributed, which the Senator-Council has asked for. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-783.ana.u12	Mr President, because of my very personal mistake in the form of tabling the motion, we have turned it into the G1 agenda. The subject under consideration is a very important subject, which has been discussed a lot, sometimes even out of proportion and by subjects who may lack the right skills. Over the last few years, the focus on HIV and AIDS has been somewhat lowered. On the other hand, we believe that with the motions and the agenda we are discussing, we can bring the subject back in full harmony with modern times, overcoming a sometimes unpositive attitude towards a disease that, however, despite the cures have limited the deaths, has an impressive expansion, especially with regard to young people, those who use drugs using syringes or homosexual subjects. With the agenda that we have presented, we ask that the attention be extremely strong, especially with regard to schools, in which the teachers have the task not only to teach the children mathematics, Italian and history but also to spread a culture on sex and drugs. Kids born to HIV-positive mothers must have the opportunity to educate themselves and live a normal life. And perhaps there is also a need for schools to be able to do so, and we will be responsible for this as a Parliament, and we will certainly have to extend it to those involved in the work. It will be necessary to explain very well that an HIV positive child does not cause any kind of problem to his companions if the most banal rules of prevention and hygiene are respected. Our agenda calls for an awareness-raising action by Parliament and the Government so that such an important issue is not put aside, as has probably happened recently, and is debilitated to chronic illness. This is not and must not be. In this sense the agenda presented by the Lega Nord Group is absolutely in line with the motions presented, with a view to promoting awareness of a dramatic disease, in some respects, and unknown, for others, and that in the social sphere must be absolutely accompanied by information action. In addition, the sick must have the opportunity to live as normal a life as possible and be cured. To this end, the search for medicine must be encouraged, which is a necessary measure to prevent the spread of the disease. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-783.ana.u13	On behalf of the Assembly, I greet the students and the teachers of the Institute of Higher Secondary Education "Giancarlo Siani" of Casalnuovo di Napoli, in the province of Naples, who are attending our work from the forums. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-783.ana.u14	I declare the debate open. Senator D'Ambrosio Lettieri is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-783.ana.u15	Mr President, since my Group has been given ten minutes (five in general discussion and five in the explanation of vote), I would ask you to be able to add the total amount of time in this speech and reserve the right to intervene in a telegraphic manner for a few seconds in the explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-783.ana.u16	Senator D'Ambrosio Lettieri, either. I give you ten minutes now if you give up your explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-783.ana.u17	D'Ambrosio Lettieri (CoR). All right, I will summarize my thoughts in this speech and put an end to the explanation of vote. I listened very carefully - it could not be otherwise - to the reasons that led my colleagues to present the motions that, with different nuances, pursue the same objectives, proposing the achievement of a substantial step towards a better and greater governance of health policies, but also socio-assistant, in the context of the worryingly widespread disease, even if governed and controlled, of AIDS. I believe that on HIV and AIDS infection the watchword is not to lower the guard. If we console ourselves by evaluating the epidemiological data of the results obtained in recent years and distracting ourselves by marginalizing our commitment on this side, we make a mistake. I believe that there should also be three principles for AIDS - early diagnosis, prevention and information - as well as for other types of diseases of high social alarm. AIDS is also, in a worrying way, such a disease because it is insidious and because it is devastating the effects of late knowledge. The spread of the pathology by unconscious subjects is probably, unfortunately, the true Achilles heel. Italy is the second country in Europe due to the incidence of AIDS, after Portugal. Of course, from the 1990s to today we have achieved significant results. However, the guard seems to have lowered and the virus spreads, in spite of the increasingly effective care and the increasingly tight controls on the blood bags donated and intended for transfusions. The drama is that the level of awareness of the risks of infection and the knowledge of behavior to avoid infection are dramatically low in the whole population and, in particular, in younger people. To this must also be added the fact that there is still widespread conviction - although certainly wrong - that HIV and AIDS are a matter of homosexuals and drug addicts only; the difficulty of free access to tests in anonymity; the increase in social hardship and poverty; as well as the resistance of strong prejudices and the shame that covers with a blanket of silence all those subjects who, in some way, are afflicted by such problems. Over the last decade, the proportion of people with AIDS who ignored their HIV-positiveness and discovered it in the few months before the diagnosis of AIDS has increased sharply from 20.5 percent to 74.5 percent. The delay in diagnosis is the signal of a low perception of the risk, especially among those who get infected sexually and among foreigners. Mr Secretary, I believe that this aspect should be considered with due attention. It is important to recognise early HIV infection - on the one hand - in order to undertake antiretroviral drug therapy, which can effectively slow the progression of the virus and - on the other hand - to take conscious behavior towards the community. Diagnosing the first possible infection means making the treatment of the sick person more effective and also decreasing its viral load and, therefore, reducing the possibility of transmission; which represents the most critical point of the system. Implementing appropriate prevention and treatment activities would also reduce expenditure by the State, which is weighed down by the particularly high cost of seven antiretroviral medicines, which are among the 30 most expensive for public health. Each diagnosis saves a life, but allows you to stay alive, undergoing therapy for forty years. In Italy, a little less than 130,000 HIV positives are calculated: this is a particularly high number. There are infected people who can transmit HIV without knowing it, increasing the number of infections. Society has changed and one factor that cannot be underestimated is the incidence of immigration, especially from Africa. In Italy, 27 percent of HIV positives are foreign: almost one in three. The early diagnosis, therefore, not only allows to start the pharmacological therapy as soon as possible, but also and above all to modulate it to the individual person, reducing the side effects. Prevention works, as demonstrated by all the data referred to in the National AIDS Action Plan, which has been approved by the Council of Ministers and which - as has been mentioned - is now subject to the evaluation of the Higher Health Council. In order to achieve the objective of zeroing, annihilating, eliminating from the vocabulary of our health care this pathology and eliminating it from the social plagues that afflict our times, the Government must be engaged in the concrete implementation of the Plan. It is absolutely essential to facilitate access to tests under conditions of confidentiality; to ensure treatment also through innovative medicines; to promote patient care; to finance specific multi-annual interventions related to prevention and to invest in information and research; to include the fight against HIV, AIDS and sexually transmitted diseases in the curricula for the new generations. And some of the motions urgently repeat this act of commitment to the Government. I believe it is our duty to keep the spotlight on and promote every kind of initiative aimed at increasing awareness of our community from schools: a challenge that the motions presented intend to welcome and that it is represented with absolutely convincing details. Mr Undersecretary, for these reasons the Parliamentary Group of Conservatives and Reformists will vote in favour of all the motions tabled. [[Applause from the CoR, FI-PdL XVII and ALA-SCLP Groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-783.ana.u18	Senator Aiello is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-783.ana.u19	Mr President, the motions that have been presented all share the common denominator of creating and imagining paths and initiatives that can first of all mitigate HIV infection and, therefore, lead to the complete eradication of this disease, a pathological drama that involves not only individuals but whole families and communities. Mr President, before we continue, I would like to ask whether I can give up speaking in an explanation of vote in order to use the time devoted to it for my speech in this debate.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-783.ana.u20	The Presidency authorizes you to do so, Senator Aiello.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-783.ana.u21	AELLO (AP (Ncd-CpE)). Definitely all the motions presented deserve great attention, because they describe globally what the paths could be and what it is really necessary to carry out from the normative, legislative and even implementing point of view to attack this pathology strongly. Mr President, apart from the exquisitely health problems, another aspect should also be taken into account. Many of us will remember the famous '80s, an era in which we imagined that everything was going well and for the best, and we thought of a rosy future for our country. All of a sudden there was fear and there was talk of AIDS. Already in 1985 - I remind myself - there were the first deaths resulting from HIV infection. And this inevitably created panic and fear, an atmosphere of suspicion, in which everything and more was imagined; we spoke of drug addiction, anointing, divine punishment, unprotected sexual relations, that is, without the use of condoms, and more. Today, after so many years, with the discoveries that science has brought forward and with the new drugs, it has come to a serious first conclusion, namely that AIDS develops in several stages and acts mostly in a subtle and hidden way: it makes a subject become first HIV positive and then move to the last stage of disease. This differentiation, Mr President, today assumes a fundamental role, as it leads to a decisive element in diagnostic timing for the purposes of treatment. Diagnosticating in time - as already is specified in the motions - is the important theme: to diagnose as soon as possible an HIV infection means greater therapeutic efficacy; it means increase of life expectancy and decrease of the viral load with consequent mitigation of the infectious risk. Steps forward and results over time have been important, but even today the existing therapies do not allow a complete healing: however, they allow to keep the infection under control and a better quality of life. Today the condition of HIV positivity is no longer a death sentence, but unfortunately it continues to represent a guilty pathology, as caused, as many say, by unhealthy behavior. Therefore, the sick person becomes irresponsible and deserves reproach and shame. This leads to an extreme difficulty for those who accept the risk of manifesting their HIV-positive condition, because they can potentially become marginalized in the present or tomorrow. So, over the years, from a social and psychological point of view, nothing has changed. The unleashed fear is the same. Despite the information campaigns (very strong before and mitigated after) on transmission methods, scientific knowledge and prevention commitments, the "brand" is always the same. We have not yet succeeded in achieving a truly effective prevention system, in all senses. We're all talking about the disease. Therefore, it is at the center of communication as a malaise to be controlled and defeated, rightly, but the social implications present to which an AIDS patient or HIV-positive person encounters, still today, are very amplified and difficult to manage due to the strong vulnerability that this pathology induces. It was thought that, by improving information, greater knowledge would lead in proportion to greater prevention and behavioural change in terms of risk management, but we are still not there today. AIDS is still a disease that affects body and spirit: it risks loneliness, abandonment and isolation. AIDS, like many chronic and crippling diseases, still has a different value. Practically still today the pathology is connected to the pure biological meaning of the disease. The path to health in these cases continues to be inadequate if we look above all at separating the biological aspect, that is, the sick from the disease. In some cases it is possible, but in chronic diseases it is not useful; on the contrary, it is harmful. So, if viewed in a broader sense, this pathology obliges you to face situations that involve not only personal issues, but also family and social issues. Individual events, social roles and even a certain existential dimension are intertwined during the illness. New psychological and relational balances are being sought; this is the great difficulty. What, then, first of all, to do, apart from the strong communication needed, prevention practices, the search for more and more effective drugs? Today we should try to imagine organizing a regulatory path where attention is paid, in addition to all this, also to families, the existential dimension, family and social contexts and also to health professionals involved in the management of the disease as a whole. Greater attention means better functioning of specific prevention, assistance, information and training measures. There was talk of being able to work at school as far as information and communication are concerned. Mr President, every time in this House we talk about exquisitely health matters, we always talk about prevention, and every time we feel it is right and proper to emphasize strongly the need to remodel, once again, the whole system of prevention in Italy. Every time we have to say that we have to do prevention, that we have to spend resources on prevention, but we still probably spend it badly today; in fact, if we have difficulty in managing even the most basic preventive actions already at school, it means that the prevention system does not work or works badly. In these contexts, reorganising once again the service of school medicine and health education, precisely in the specific case of these diseases, is fundamental. Today, in particular for chronic diseases, we must ensure that there is a health culture (in this sense I want to break a spearhead in favour of the approval of the professional agreement), because at least we will be able to mitigate the strong technicalization that exists in health; but especially for these diseases we must make sure that the human factor is also present. Mr President, there is a risk of moving from a global reality to an inanimate reality in which equipment and instruments emerge, but this cannot and must not be the case. We need to unite together to think about the globality of interventions and people. That is why we shall vote in favour of all the motions that have been tabled, because we are convinced that they are all positive. [[Applause from the AP Group (Ncd-CpE). Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-783.ana.u22	Senator Romani Maurizio is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-783.ana.u23	Mr President, Mr Undersecretary, ladies and gentlemen, it is clear from what we have heard so far that, thanks to antiretroviral therapies, HIV disease has gone from being a lethal disease to a chronic disease in the last 20 years. However, in order to fully benefit from these therapies, HIV positive people must also be followed throughout their treatment path, in the so-called continuum of care, as this allows monitoring of the quality of care for people with HIV, as well as evaluating the extent of viral suppression at the level of the population. What always gives me to think, however, is the fact that every year at the approach of 1 December (World Day Against AIDS) is repeated the tired and obvious ritual of the publication of data on the development of the infection of the world. The risk is to be submerged by numbers accompanied also by some phrase of circumstance, but without, through the numbers, identifying the critical points and their responsibilities. The latest census of 2014 tells us that the total number of people diagnosed and treated is 100,049 (in 2012 there were 94,146), equal to 16 people per 10,000 inhabitants; of these, 72 percent are males, 28 percent are women; heterosexual non-drug addicts are 37.9 percent, so it is no longer the disease or plague of homosexual males, so much so that these are alone (although it is an important number) 31 percent. Of those who received retroviral therapy 80,600 achieved viral suppression at the last visit. Various statistical models have been developed in various countries, through which we have reached an approximate number of 14,000 people not yet diagnosed with HIV and 18,000 people diagnosed but not being treated. These, added to the people being treated at clinical centres, lead to the number of 130,000 people. We therefore have encouraging results with regard to patients on therapy and with undetectable viral load, but it is also necessary to develop a more valid system to increase access to care for people not yet diagnosed or who have been lost during the course of treatment. Statistically, the absolute number gives us information, but if there is no chance to relate it to the number of cases observed it does not give an indication of the phenomenon. Today we do not know the proportion of the new population with HIV compared to the one that did the test, and it is very heavy not to know. The observatory has been studied in this way: it receives reports of positive but not negative cases. Health policymakers know that there are always about 4,000 positive sides; the figure seems constant and does not generate alarm. But if we knew that, at the same time, the tests were reduced, the alarm would certainly be there. Therefore, it is not possible to build a health policy rationally, without a substantial figure. Maintaining the same order of magnitude does not alarm public health, because it gives the idea that the problem is under control, even if we do not know the denominator. In fact, another is if 4,000 cases are compared to only 8,000 tests, other if they are compared to 100,000 tests; that's a whole other thing. It should therefore be understood whether there is greater disinterest in HIV, so fewer people get tested, which would mean that the 4,000 cases per year are worth more. But, unfortunately, today we do not know. But if we knew that, at the same time, the tests were reduced, the alarm would certainly be there. Therefore, it is not possible to build a health policy rationally, without a substantial figure. Maintaining the same order of magnitude does not alarm public health, because it gives the idea that the problem is under control, even if we do not know the denominator. In fact, another is if 4,000 cases are compared to only 8,000 tests, other if they are compared to 100,000 tests; that's a whole other thing. It should therefore be understood whether there is greater disinterest in HIV, so fewer people get tested, which would mean that the 4,000 cases per year are worth more. But, unfortunately, today we do not know. 50 percent of people infected with the virus worldwide do not have access to any antiretroviral drug due to the high costs set by Big Pharma. The vast majority of these people live in Africa, but similar situations are present everywhere, even in the European Union. The initiatives of NGOs, foundations and institutions are increasing, but none of them, among those who could, dare to question the agreements on intellectual property, the famous Trips, established by the World Trade Organization, which, leaving ownership of the patent for twenty years to the pharmaceutical company that produced the new drug, allow that company to act in a monopoly position and to be able to determine the price at its total liking. An institutionalized injustice, supported by governments and certainly not compensated by the proliferation of charitable initiatives. If you combine the problem of hepatitis C with this, you will understand how important it would be, along with these motions, to approve also the motion on hepatitis C, which blocks this infamous trade on the health of people. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator Maurizio Romani, your time is over. The Presidency therefore invites you to hand over the remaining part of the text of your speech, so that it can be annexed to the report of the sitting. ROMANI Maurizio (Misto-Idv). All right, Mr. President. [[Applause from Senators Dirindin, Orrù and Puppato.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-783.ana.u24	Senator Puglia is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-783.ana.u25	Mr President, AIDS is a disease caused by a virus that interferes with the human immune system by limiting its effectiveness, making people affected more susceptible to infections and the development of cancers. This vulnerability increases as the disease progresses. HIV virus is transmitted in many ways, e.g. through sexual intercourse, contaminated blood transfusions, hypodermic needles, but also through vertical transmission between mother and child during pregnancy, childbirth and breast-feeding. Disease is an important health problem in many parts of the world; especially in Africa the problem sees its peak, due to several factors. Although treatments may slow down or stop the course of AIDS disease, there is no known cure or vaccine against HIV. Antiviral treatment reduces both deaths and new infections, but these medicines are expensive and are not available in all countries. Because of the difficulty in treating HIV infections, prevention is a key objective. The data tell us that AIDS is a disease that potentially affects a large part of the population, since over the years there has been a change in the mode of transmission of the infection, with an exponential increase in cases attributable to sexual transmission, which today represent 85 percent of the total. The problem of AIDS, in particular, certainly requires a medical and pharmaceutical response and yet this is insufficient, because the problem is deeper. It requires a change of behaviour: for example, sexual abstinence, rejection of sexual promiscuity, marital fidelity. In fact, to be effective, AIDS prevention must be based on sexual education. Here, which is the appropriate one for soliciting the right decisions, we must strongly reiterate that the work of prevention, in order to be both worthy of the human person and truly effective, must propose two objectives: to adequately inform and educate the responsible maturity. The personal dignity of man then requires that he be helped to grow toward affective maturity, through a specific educational work: we are State and must do so. Only with information and education that leads to a clear and joyful rediscovery of the value of love understood as agape - that is, the love that is given, as a fundamental sense of existence - it is possible that adolescents and young people have the strength necessary to overcome the behaviors at risk. It is for this reason that the state must devote no less energy to education than it devotes to health care in the fight against AIDS and suggest more effective behaviors to prevent the sexual transmission of the disease. Attention, I say this by stating that the problem cannot be overcome only with money (even if necessary, for charity), neither with the sole investment in drugs or the distribution of condoms; indeed, if you move your attention only on these last two points, putting in second order the education to live in a serene and serious way your own sexuality and the preparation for responsible and faithful love, the problem will not be reduced. [[Applause from Senator Paglini.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-783.ana.u26	Senator Rizzotti is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-783.ana.u27	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, we cannot fail to note that in recent years the fear of the infection of AIDS has fallen much, almost disappeared, as if it had been just a bad nightmare from which we have awakened because, thanks to antiretroviral drugs, this disease is dying much less. The newspapers are no longer concerned with the phenomenon, except sporadically, as in the case of the anointing of Rome, who has scientifically infected thirty girls and who, fortunately, has been condemned. Among young people there is no mention of it, there is no knowledge suitable for effective prevention; school and family do not know if they consider it a danger now exceeded and restricted only to high-risk behaviors such as homosexuality and heroin intake (and unfortunately it is not so, because addicts take precautions that are now forgotten in heterosexual relations). The virus infects eleven people a day. Statistics show that in Italy the spread of AIDS, after a collapse immediately between '95 and '99, is in very slow regression and the deaths remain almost stable. We are therefore witnessing a paradox, in this country that is at the forefront of the world for the study of AIDS and the search for a vaccine: let us not forget that the TAT vaccine has been developed in Italy by the National AIDS Center of the Higher Institute of Health, even if for some its results are controversial (more for ideology than for reality). This vaccine significantly increases T lymphocytes, which are less easily attacked by the virus, thus making antiretroviral therapies more effective. However, the data is much more worrying for everything that is submerged: at least 30,000 people do not know they are HIV positive, and this is because the test should be made mandatory. Think, for example, that 30 percent of HIV-positive women find that they are when they undergo first pregnancy tests and there has been a further peak increase in HIV-positiveness among women over fifty-five years of age, probably thanks to their husbands and viagras they have taken to accompany others. We must remember that the free movement of persons has increased the risk of contagion. In Europe the highest number of cases has been counted and in our country the incidence of the disease is also significantly linked to the phenomenon of immigration: there are 19.2 cases per 100,000 inhabitants among foreigners and 28.8 percent of the diagnosis is precisely on patients outside the EU. The fact that I personally am more concerned and that confirms us with every evidence that the danger of having forgotten AIDS is not theoretical, but unfortunately it is a concrete reality, is the peak of infection among young people around the age of twenty-five, males and females. This means that there is still a delay in diagnosis and that people are not aware that they have a duty to do this test, so therapies start late and can be less effective. This means that the relationship between the dead and the sick increases and means above all that a large part of the Italian population, especially young people, underestimates the risks and dangers of AIDS; but this is the fault of the lack of information, because in our country, as has been said several times, the guard has greatly lowered with respect to the information on this disease. We are trying to give this series of problems a solution, albeit a partial one, with our motion. The commitments we are asking the Government are very clear: to approve as soon as possible the national AIDS action plan and implement it concretely immediately afterwards; to continue to fund research, but at the same time to mobilise funding for prevention and information; to involve the most at risk populations and young people in a national information and accountability plan. Sexual information in schools, in high schools, for our children should be directed to this, perhaps neglecting a little the sexual information related to gender practice, which seems less important to me than the health of our boys. Teenagers, especially those belonging to families with poor financial means and who do not have the courage to talk about it at home, should, for example, be able to turn to family counselors, who, however, observe absolutely unworkable times for children leaving school. Those are the structures that should be assigned to provide further potential information on the problems of adolescents, rather than being reduced - as they are now - to abortion booking centres. I believe that they are possible actions, within the reach of the Government if only it has the political will, and which can lead to concrete results in a short time. I hope that this House will accept our motion, because we are talking about our health and our children. [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-783.ana.u28	She is registered to speak Senator Mattesini. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-783.ana.u29	Mr President, at last this morning, the issue of sexually transmitted diseases, which are all on the increase, especially among young people, comes back to the attention of Parliament, and therefore to politics: I am referring, for example, to the papilloma virus; so let there be the choice that the Government made to include the vaccine against the papilloma virus as compulsory and free of charge within the essential levels of assistance. Of course, however, this morning we are talking about AIDS, which is one of the most sensitive, an issue that has enormous human and financial costs: in fact, seven antiretroviral medicines are among the 30 most expensive medicines for public health. It is important that the theme of sexuality returns to the attention of politics and the media, because in our time there is talk much about sex and too little - almost for nothing - about conscious and safe sexuality. In addition to the silence on sexuality, there is the weakening of the consultors throughout Italy, which I believe are the place to intervene in promotion for a conscious and safe sexuality. I ask all the proposers of the motions to add this point, which among the many is not taken into account, while I believe that the strengthening of the consultors is the fundamental point for continuous work with a view to prevention. It has been years when attention to AIDS has led to its reduction and consequently fear has passed away, but the twenty years behind us without fear have made us forget that AIDS has continued to spread in the meantime. There was a sort of hood of silence that was broken only a few months ago by the clamor of a story with a thirty-year-old Roman in the center and the numerous girls infected by him. In the media simplification, the return of the so-called anointer has finally opened a gap on a disease that for many is confined in the 1980s and which is very current, but on which many prejudices still survive, starting from the fact that AIDS is still traced back to the categories at risk, that is gay and drug addicts. On the other hand, the reality is another one and the data show it: from 1984 to 2016, the proportion of HIV related to drug addiction has risen from 76 percent of the total to 4%, while today 84 percent of the new diagnosis is attributable to sexual relations without condoms. It is therefore essential to relaunch campaigns of real information and also the attention of the medical world on this point; I am talking about pediatricians, basic doctors and not just hospital doctors. It is necessary - I say this very clearly, as written in many motions - to fully implement Law No. 135 of 1990, because the challenge for public health also starts from the tests; if more people did it, the infectious chain would break down and in any case decrease. Often the cause of the lack of tests is to be found in the difficulty of accessing the tests themselves or the lack of guarantee of anonymity and gratuitousness. That is also why I hope that the national AIDS action plan will be adopted quickly. The consequence of this silence and difficulty is that there are 4,000 cases every year, as well as the fact that half of the new diagnosis takes place long after infection. In fact, in recent years the number of people arriving at the stage of AIDS has increased, ignoring their HIV-positiveness. This means that people who are unaware of being infected are circulating and, therefore, can transmit HIV without knowing it, thus increasing the number of infected people. I want to focus on young people, because this is a very important point. Young people know less about this disease and underestimate it. There are important researches that reveal how much it is for young people a taboo. This lack of knowledge on the part of young people is a paradox that belongs to us adults; in fact, if sex is no longer a taboo for them (they talk about it and practice it even early) there is a shortage of correct information on safety and sexual health, and that means something. On the other hand, these boys and girls do not talk about it with either the doctor or the parents; at the limit, they exchange opinions among themselves, which are often high opinions and information. We must then re-launch information and, I hope, correct information. It is essential to promote access to usable information and to more effective methods, by transmitting to children, in the discovery of sexuality, the help to understand the boundaries of a sexuality aware of the risks it entails, a conscious sexuality that takes into account, for example, the fact that sexually transmitted diseases are increasing. The world of adults, through services and operators, has the duty to accompany their natural discovery of sexuality, often accompanied by taboos, fears and shame that create real walls that prevent the full awareness and mastery of cultural and practical tools of prevention. From this point of view, I think we must learn to speak clear words: the only real instrument, of proven preventive effectiveness, is certainly the use of condoms. It is all too often an embarrassment, because it is lived as an element other than the relationship of couple, alien to the habits of young men, but above all of women, and not as a fundamental method of contraception and prevention. We know that most of the boys and girls who do not use condoms do so, as well as for the problems I said before, so that they also tie this difficulty to the availability of condoms and their high cost. We should think, then, about reducing costs from VAT. In conclusion, I think it is very important to identify real and permanent information campaigns in the places most involved in meeting the attention of our young people. For example, permanent information intervention within schools, universities and places of aggregation is a key point. Prevention is, in fact, fundamental, but - I insist - it is also essential that the places devoted to the reception of the whole family be strengthened with regard to the prevention and promotion of correct sexuality and, that is, the consultors. [[Applause from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-783.ana.u30	The debate is closed. I call the representative of the Government, and I would ask him to give his opinion on the G1 agenda and on the motions put forward.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-783.ana.u31	Mr President, Senators, the Ministry of Health, with the contribution of the National Commission for the fight against AIDS and the Council of AIDS Associations, has worked and continues to work in order to maintain constant attention and activities relating to the many aspects of HIV infection and its disease, such as prevention, research, diagnosis, treatment and communication related to HIV, as well as assistance, training and support for associations and the protection of the rights of people with HIV. The main objectives of the plan's interventions are the implementation of projects aimed at defining models of intervention to reduce the number of infections; the facilitation of access to the test and the emergence of the submerged; guaranteeing access to care for all; encouraging the maintenance of patients diagnosed and treated; improving the state of health and well-being of people; coordinating intervention plans on national territory; protecting social and labour rights; promoting empowerment and active involvement of the population and promoting the fight against stigma. The instrument for promulgating the plan is that of understanding in the State-Regions Conference. In fact, the adoption of national recommendations has not fallen from the top, but is strongly shared at the technical and political level with the Regions and the Autonomous Provinces, respecting their legitimate autonomy. Each year the Ministry of Health plans a communication campaign based on the general indications formulated by the two sections of the Technical Health Committee. As regards the taking of initiatives to include the fight against HIV and sexually transmitted infections in the curricula for the new generations, it is noted that on April 2, 2015, a Memorandum of Understanding was signed between the Ministry of Education, University and Research and the Ministry of Health. Then, of course, the Ministry of Health will promote the collaboration of the Regions and the Autonomous Provinces in order to provide support in the field of local health care for the implementation of health promotion initiatives for all children and adolescents. Finally, a joint table with the representatives of the two Dicasteries is working on the application modalities of the Memorandum of Understanding. The reorganization of primary care currently in place with the establishment of complex aggregational forms, continuing the road already undertaken with the national collective agreement for the discipline of relations with doctors of general medicine, places between the aims a new way of taking charge of the caregivers, overcoming the old model of the medicine of waiting for that of the medicine of initiative, in which the doctor becomes promoter to the population of correct lifestyles, with particular interest for the interventions of prevention, education and health information. The Higher Institute of Health intended to point out that the persistence of HIV disease is not exhausted in the country, but, on the contrary, the cumulative number of HIV-positive people grows progressively every year, with the effect of increased survival and reduced mortality of HIV-treated people. The Institute estimates that about 10-15 percent of HIV-positive people living in Italy do not know that they have contracted the infection and therefore do not cure or prevent the transmission of the virus to others, contributing to the persistence of the disease. This unawareness of your own infection means that about half of the people who discover that they are HIV-positive have an advanced state of disease, i.e. a state of high immunodepression. I now come to the opinion on the individual motions. With regard to motion No 494 (text 2), at the first signature of Senator Bencini, I welcome the rewording of commitment No 1 of the device in the sense proposed by the Ministry of Education, University and Research: In the second grade secondary school, it is possible to promote ways of raising awareness and knowledge of parental or sexually transmitted pathologies, within the framework of the plans of the training offer and respecting school autonomy, including through the presence of suitable professional figures. With regard to commitment No 3, I give a favourable opinion, provided that the initial part is reworded as follows: As far as motion No 717 is concerned, first signed by Senator Mandelli, I am in favour, provided that commitment No 3 is reworded as follows: "to promote the fight against HIV-AIDS and sexually transmitted diseases among the new generations and to support the information and active involvement of the most at-risk populations." With regard to Amendment No 740, at the first signature of Senator Gaetti, the opinion is in favour, provided that commitment No 3 of the operative part is reworded as follows: It will draw up specific guidelines on gender equality education, the prevention of gender violence and all discrimination so that schools of all levels, in their full autonomy in drawing up the three-year plans for training, and taking into account the role of families in collegial bodies, can promote the overcoming of any prejudice from that on sexual orientation capable of motivating violence and discrimination. As regards commitments Nos 5 and 6, as far as the Ministry of Health is concerned, a favourable opinion can be expressed provided that the following proposal for rewording of the initial part is accepted: It considers that initiatives should be taken, also in the light of the Protocol of Understanding 2 April 2015 with the Ministry of Education, University and As regards commitment No 8, the proposal for a rewording is as follows: In addition to the current table criterion based on the number of CD4 lymphocytes present in the blood, further objective parameters to be established in conjunction with associations and experts in the sector, consistent with existing budgetary constraints, should be considered. As regards motion No 741, at the first signature of Senator Barani, the opinion is in favour, pointing out with reference to commitment No 4, that a national plan for the eradication of HCV cannot but be focused on outpatient activity, rather than on hospital activity. As regards the G1 agenda, at the first signature of the Senator-Council, the opinion is in favour, provided that the second commitment of the mechanism is reworded, in line with the statement made in relation to commitment No 1 of the first-signed motion by Senator Bencini, of the same tenor, as follows: In the second grade secondary school, it promotes awareness and knowledge of parental or sexually transmitted pathologies, within the framework of the plans of the training offer and in compliance with school autonomy, also through the presence of suitable professional figures.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-783.ana.u32	Mr Faraone, you gave a favourable opinion on Senator Barani's first-signed motion, making an alert. Is your emphasis to be understood as a proposal for reformulation? FARAONE, State Secretary for Health. Yes, Mr. President. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator Bencini, do you accept the proposal for the rewording of motion No 494 (text 2) tabled by the Undersecretary?
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-783.ana.u33	Mr President, I would like to stress one thing.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-783.ana.u34	Senator Bencini, this way we can't vote. I ask you whether or not you accept the proposed reformulation.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-783.ana.u35	Mr Bencini (Misto-Idv). The reference to second grade secondary school is better than nothing. As they say, old husband better than nothing. In my opinion, it would have been important to do education already in the first grade secondary schools. In fact, we are talking about the eighth grade: when the kids finish middle school and get ready to go to the upper grade, there is that summer period during which their maturation begins (pubic and not only). In my opinion, it would therefore have been appropriate to provide for such education also in secondary schools of first grade (i.e. the famous eighth grade) and then... PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator Bencini, do you or do you not accept the proposal for reformulation put forward by the Undersecretary? Mr Bencini (Misto-Idv). I have already said that, in the absence of anything else, I must unfortunately accept it. However, also professional figures, nurses and doctors...
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-783.ana.u36	Senator Bencini, thank you. We have to vote by 1 p.m. and if we do so we will not be able to do so. Senator Mandelli, do you accept the proposed reformulation of motion 717 tabled by the Undersecretary? MANDELLI (FI-PdL XVII). Yes, Mr. President. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator Gaetti, do you accept the proposed rewording of motion 740? GAETTI (M5S). Yes, I welcome you, President. Senator Mazzoni, do you accept the proposal for an advanced rewording of your motion? MAZZONI (ALA-SCLP). Yes, I welcome the proposal for the rewording of motion No 741. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator Council, do you accept the proposal to reformulate the G1 agenda? COUNCIL (LN-Aut). Yes, I welcome the proposal for reformulation. PRESIDENT. - The debate is
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-783.ana.u37	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-783.ana.u38	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-783.ana.u39	COUNCIL (LN-Aut). Mr President, we have already said that this is a very serious issue which, in some respects, has been somewhat sidelined perhaps by thinking about the important research that has been carried out. Mortality is no longer what it used to be, and this has caused the bureaucratic apparatus to lie on its laurels, which actually do not exist. Mr President, I can think of how many times we have heard words like: 'Let's figure out!' I will never get the disease, because I don't do drugs and I'm not homosexual. However, we need to be clear about what is really happening: we do not need to be drugged or homosexual in order to risk contracting the disease, which, on the contrary, circulates much more among heterosexuals and those who do not use drugs. Nobody talks like they used to talk about AIDS and the HIV virus. At least in the West of AIDS you don't die anymore, even if things are a little different in African and Eastern countries. The people who have contracted this syndrome are increasingly similar to other chronic patients, so much so that a parallelism has been made with other diseases, which have little to do with the one in question: in fact, we speak of chronic patients, in need of continuous specialist medical care and expensive treatments. Mr President, there are many books which have been written on this subject and which constitute a full-bodied literature on AIDS, which for its strong social vocation and as a bearer of moral values has tried to represent the dangers of the disease, drawing the attention of science, discussing the suffering of the sick and denouncing their loneliness. It has been tried to highlight the lack of familiarity with the disease by subjects who often speak out of proportion and to explain that there are specialised centres in the major Italian cities, which carry out in-depth analyses, completely anonymous, to help those who fear having contracted AIDS and do not want to let it know. The school - which is the subject of the agenda we have presented - is absolutely called to play its part. In fact, teachers have the task of promoting the inclusion and subsequent integration of children who have contracted AIDS, who have the sacred right to education, but also and above all to support and comfort. It should be explained and clarified that these children do not pose any danger to their peers and therefore it is the task of educators and teachers to enforce the basic hygiene standards and to teach that children who have contracted such a disease can have a normal social life. These are children who are often HIV positive because they are the children of an HIV-positive mother. Mr President, talking to children is certainly not easy: it is not easy for school, let alone for families. Adults often make the mistake of making children talk about sexual health issues and of waiting for young people to ask them questions. Many of these young people, however, Mr President, will never ask adults such questions, because they fear putting them in trouble, perhaps because sometimes the necessary confidence between the child and the parent is lacking. When this dialogue is lacking and everything is handed down to the school, there is a great opportunity to make sure that within the family there is the ability to talk to the children and to teach them the risks of very serious diseases, through relationships that are absolutely natural, especially among children of a certain age. Mr President, I would like to end by thanking the Government for the attention it has shown on the agenda proposed by us and, more generally, for the fact that attention to an absolutely serious disease can be revitalized. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-783.ana.u40	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-783.ana.u41	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-783.ana.u42	DIRINDIN (Art. 1-MDP). Mr President, the data we have been talking about this morning tell us that new human immunodeficiency virus infections have fallen dramatically worldwide, as well as the number of deaths that have been reduced by 42% since 2004. However, the number of patients in treatment worldwide increases. Today there are almost 16 million patients in therapy and just think that in 2010 there were about half of them. On the other hand, there are 36 million people suffering from HIV in the world and some 25 million of these are in sub-Saharan Africa - a major problem affecting relations between the North and the South of the world. This means that less than half of the sick have access to treatment. As far as our country is concerned, as has been said, in Italy there are about 4000 new cases every year and this is a number that struggles to go down, indeed, it keeps more or less constant over time. This means that people do not protect themselves from infection as they might and that there is an important presence of unknowing carriers of the disease. This is a worrying signal, which makes clear the lack of disease prevention initiatives and justifies the attention that we are all giving today in this House to the motions that have been presented. What then? The weapons we have are known, but they must be continuously supported, improved and updated in order to make them more effective. What needs to be done can be covered in three main areas: first of all, access to therapies, in particular innovative medicines that in recent years have allowed great improvements in the clinical conditions of patients and in their life expectancy. Our country has demonstrated, in the past years, a relative excellence in the treatment of HIV and AIDS. This excellence must be supported and consolidated, monitoring the availability in all regions of new innovative medicines. The second area of intervention concerns what is needed beyond therapy because therapies are not enough. As one African doctor who has worked in Congo for a long time with these patients says, the fight against AIDS is not just about safe sex. In the simple challenge against the virus it is, unfortunately, an integral promotion of human development, primarily among young people. We must focus on marginalization, poverty, discrimination against women, the conditions of prisoners in prison, the situation of immigrants and not only the promiscuity of relations which, as has been said, only marginally affect them. This is also true for Italy. It is therefore necessary that the programme announced in December 2016 by the Ministry of Health provides for greater support for the integration between the health component of the care to the sick and the social component, in order to allow a global responsibility of the person. The sense of loneliness, stigma and economic difficulties, social isolation are factors that must be explicitly considered, as well as clinical manifestations of the disease. The third area in which to intervene is prevention. The many data that have been brought this morning show that prevention needs to be done much more than it has been done to date. For some years in our country the guard seems to have lowered, especially among young people, where it appears a knowledge of the disease and the poor or even erroneous mode of transmission. I would like to add a recommendation to the Government: it is not enough to rely on this work, which is excellent, which has made many non-profit associations. The institutions must take the responsibility for dealing with the problem in the first place with the resources and capacities that only they can put in place, primarily through the strengthening of the role of the consultors. For these reasons, the Group of the Democratic and Progressive Movement declares its adherence to the motions which are being discussed this morning and which promote initiatives to prevent and combat the spread of AIDS. [[Applause from Senator Gatti.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-783.ana.u43	Colleagues, I must, of course, make provision for a four-minute reduction in voting time in order to allow the voting to take place.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-783.ana.u44	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-783.ana.u45	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-783.ana.u46	D'ANNA (ALA-SCLP). Mr President, I have nothing more to add than what has been said in the general debate and repeated several times by my colleagues, even with a wealth of details and considerations. I believe that the wisest thing to do is to declare the vote in favour and abstain from any other comment. [[Applause from Senator Pagnoncelli.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-783.ana.u47	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-783.ana.u48	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-783.ana.u49	Mr Bencini (Misto-Idv). Mr President, first of all, I would like to point out that the motion highlights certain specific points which, not only to me, appear important in terms of prevention, starting with promoting within schools since the last year of middle school (I say this in this way because I belong to the old category, being forty-eight years old, and at my time middle school and high school were held, while today there is the distinction between secondary school of first and second degree). The government invites me to modify the first point of the device by inserting the second grade secondary school, so this information will begin to give children starting from the first grade. On the other hand, I think it is important to start informing young people about infectious diseases with sexual transmission in eighth grade and, therefore, in secondary schools of first grade, because in the last year young people are an age for which they are developed and approach sex for the first time. It would therefore be important to make them aware of what is going on when you have an unprotected relationship, so as to prevent it. This can be done at school through professional health professionals (infirms and doctors). The teaching of teachers is also welcome, but I believe that they are sufficiently overburdened by everything they have to teach. Teaching this type of subjects in middle schools, where there are no figures, would, in my opinion, be a task to be assigned, with targeted meetings, to subjects belonging to health care such as nurses and doctors. Another point in the motion that I was interested to highlight is advertising. It seems to me that the government has also taken this into consideration. A third point, which has been corrected in the motion, is the forecast within the ASL of information consultants in the field of infectious parental diseases. In this regard, it has been explained to me - and I agree - that each Region has its power to act. Therefore, it is only possible to invite the Regions to put themselves in order and to anticipate these consultors. I must say that the Tuscany Region in this is virtuous, because this is already there. All the motions commit the government with certain important points, so we will vote in favour of the motions presented, in addition to mine.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-783.ana.u50	On behalf of the Assembly, I greet the teachers and students of the Istituto complesso (General Gonzaga) of Eboli, in the province of Salerno, who are attending our work. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-783.ana.u51	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-783.ana.u52	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-783.ana.u53	AIROLA (M5S). Mr President, in this debate, we have heard some hallucinating figures from colleagues: 36 million patients worldwide, more than 2 million new diagnoses in 2015. Our country is in second place in Europe for deaths. There were 40,000 deaths only in 2014 and the information is completely absent both in newspapers and on television. HIV is a virus that nourishes of ignorance: this is how it increases and spreads especially among young people, because the most affected are precisely the under 30. Most of the cases are attributed to unprotected sex: we speak of 85 percent. This is very serious. These few data are enough to understand the madness of a state that has given up in information and that is indifferent to the 4,000 new cases per year of Italian citizens who get sick. By now the day of 1st December is a commercial with a more than scientific propaganda tenor, so the only real weapon for prevention is to inform every day through televisions and newspapers, waiting that only 35 percent of Italian boys usually use condoms. (Senator Airola shows a condom.) Gentlemen, let's show this to the kids: it is important that you find it in schools, in the places of aggregation most frequented by young people, just like in a health care center you can find the tools for prevention. In the 1980s there was very little knowledge of the virus, it was only discussed in the scientific consensus; however, in the 1990s, with deaths of great stars and famous characters, it began to talk about it. In the two thousand years of AIDS no longer dies, at least in Western countries, even if HIV-positive people have to face very heavy therapies. Over the last decade drugs have become more and more effective and the result is that the infection is no longer spoken of, dear Government. It's been 30 years, science has gone on, patients have gotten a lot, but AIDS remains the pandemic that reaps the most victims in the world. In order to reaffirm the commitments contained in motion 740 (text 2), there is no form of education for sexuality in schools; in particular, the taboo which limits the use of condoms continues. There are also illegal discriminations in the workplace, ignorance reigns supreme: still today 33% of young people believe that they can get sick through saliva, while 13.9 percent of adults are convinced that they can be transmitted with the bite of a mosquito (they are data of Caritas Ambrosiana). Of course it's all fake. Condoms cost too much. We know that the government will increase VAT on everything, so the proposal to decrease that on condoms may not be taken into account: imagine, however, that you will give the nation, especially for the health costs that we will have to face, as well as of course in terms of the health of the citizens. I would like to make two more small invitations. In addition to the proposals we have made, we ask the Government to comply on time with the commitment referred to in Article 8 (3) of Law No 135 of 5 June 1990, reporting annually in Parliament on the state of implementation of the strategies activated to deal with the infection. We are faced with a very serious indifference and the silence of Ministers of Health who have followed for the last ten years that have propaganda ignorance for contiguity with the great pharmaceutical companies or subalternity with religious preconceptions, also of the Catholic Church, which can no longer be accepted. On the notes of this wretched silence, the only ones to celebrate the thousands of new patients are the big pharmaceutical companies: so let's start stopping them from today. Of course, we will vote in favour of all motions. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-783.ana.u54	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-783.ana.u55	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-783.ana.u56	MANDELLI (FI-PdL XVII). Mr President, of course my speech will be brief so that we can vote on the motions, which is the most important thing. Certainly the debate was interesting and important, but we must ensure that it is not just one of the many days that has passed to deal with the problems of the country without being able instead to put in place effective action. I would therefore like to mention a number of fundamental issues. First of all, we need the new national AIDS plan, which will soon be sent to the Permanent Conference on Relations between the State, the Regions and the Autonomous Provinces of Trento and Bolzano, to be approved quickly: this is a fundamental fact that I really hope the Government will follow very carefully. There are certainly three other points: early diagnosis, which as we have said is fundamental, prevention, which is equally fundamental, and information. The latter is the weak link in the chain, the one on which we really need to focus in order to make sure that our words this morning are not just a sterile exercise and an end in itself. With this intention, we will vote favorably for all motions, abstaining on that of the 5 Star Movement.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-783.ana.u57	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-783.ana.u58	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-783.ana.u59	WHITE (PD). Mr President, quickly I would like to sum up, at the global health level, the HIV/AIDS phenomenon, citing a very concise but formidable expression that we find in the slides accompanying the UNAIDS 2016 report: • AIDS is not over but it can be • AIDS is not defeated, but it can be defeated; that is what they tell us worldwide. The report goes on to say that millions of lives have been saved but there are still important milestones to be reached, barriers to be broken down and borders to be overcome. The result of the reduction in AIDS deaths, of which we heard this morning, comes from the availability of increasingly sensitive services and diagnostic means, which facilitate secondary prevention, the availability of therapeutic strategies with antiretroviral drugs also used for prophylactic purposes in the manifest conditions of risk. Drugs able, when used promptly, to control viral replication and the consequences on the cellular immune system, thus ensuring survival with good standards of quality of life, which allow the reconnection of infected individuals to normal standards of social, relational, working and sexual life. This is the picture that gives us the success of medicine. The Italian data that, as we know, are quite punctual because AIDS reports have become real notifications, collected by the AIDS Operations Centre (OA), at the Higher Institute of Health, define an extraordinary platform to understand the evolution of the natural history of related HIV diseases, its strengths that, as we have just said, are mainly the services and medicines available, but also its points of weakness, in the contrast strategies of which we have felt the incidence. I would like to add this: in the Italian population, the new cases of AIDS concern 77.4 percent males, with a median age of thirty-nine years (thirty-six among women); in 85.5 percent of the cases the contagion was determined by unprotected sexual relations: of these, a little more than the heterosexual half and a little less homosexual male. The other important fact, according to a recent SWG survey, is that only 57 percent of those interviewed in age groups 25 to 34 years old, where the incidence of AIDS is 30 percent, show that they know the mode of infection and only 37 percent consider HIV to be treatable, but still it is unbearable stigma. Mr President, undersecretary Pharaoh, as well as the motions, referred to the National AIDS Plan of the Ministry and I believe that the motions points are all enough within this National Plan, so I do not repeat myself and I do not, of course, repeat the contents. I would just like to remind you that, as has been said, health policies cannot only be policies to combat AIDS: integrated policies of information, training and education, welfare and social policy are needed. All these elements I find, compete and integrate in the various motions. That is why I am announcing the vote in favour, with the rewordings proposed by the Government, of the Democratic Party Group to all the motions on the agenda. [[Applause from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-783.ana.u60	Before proceeding to the vote, I warn you that, in line with established practice, motions will be put to the vote in accordance with the order of presentation. We shall now proceed to the vote on motion No 494 (text 3). SANTANGELO (M5S). We would like to ask that the votes be taken simultaneously by electronic means. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of motion No 494 (text 3), tabled by Senator Bencini and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (see Annex B). We shall now proceed to the vote on motion No 717 (text 2). I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request for simultaneous voting by electronic procedure is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of motion No 717 (text 2), tabled by Senator Mandelli and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (see Annex B). We shall now proceed to the vote on motion No 740 (text 2). I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request for simultaneous voting by electronic procedure is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of motion No 740 (text 2), tabled by Senator Gaetti and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (see Annex B). We shall now proceed to the vote on motion No 741 (text 2). I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request for simultaneous voting by electronic procedure is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of motion 741 (text 2), tabled by Senator Barani and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (see Annex B). We shall now proceed to the vote on the G1 agenda (text 2). I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request for simultaneous voting by electronic procedure is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of the agenda G1 (text 2), tabled by Senator Council and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (see Annex B). Our work has therefore been completed and, having regard to the timetable, the speeches on items not on the agenda will be taken at the end of another sitting.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-783.ana.u61	The motions, questions and questions received by the Presidency will be published in Annex B to today's report. I remember that the Senate will return to meet in public today, at 4.30 p.m., with the agenda already printed and distributed. The sitting was closed at 12.30 p.m.
