ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-793.ana.u1	The sitting was opened at 11.04 a.m. The Minutes shall be read. Mr SIBILIA, secretary, read the Minutes of the afternoon sitting on 23 March.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-793.ana.u2	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-793.ana.u3	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-793.ana.u4	GAETTI (M5S). Madam President, as has already been pointed out to many group leaders last week, given that only 14 motions of the 5 Star Movement have been scheduled and that therefore, even from the statistical point of view, ours are not in fact scheduled, from now on, in all the sessions devoted to the motions I will continue to ask for the verification of the quorum so that there is respect for the percentages. I therefore request the vote on the Minutes, subject to a quorum check.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-793.ana.u5	I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators, by electronic procedure. (The request is supported). I therefore call on the senators to make their presence known by electronic means. (Follows the quorum check.) The Senate is not a quorum. I therefore suspend the sitting. (The sitting was suspended at 11.07 a.m. and resumed at 11.28 a.m.)
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-793.ana.u6	We shall now proceed to the vote on the Minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-793.ana.u7	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-793.ana.u8	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-793.ana.u9	GAETTI (M5S). Mr President, with the reasons just announced, I renew my request for a quorum check.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-793.ana.u10	I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators, by electronic procedure. (The request is supported). I therefore call on the senators to make their presence known by electronic means. (Follows the quorum check.) The Senate is not a quorum. I therefore suspend the sitting. (The sitting was suspended at 11.29 a.m. and resumed at 11.51 a.m.)
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-793.ana.u11	We shall now proceed to the vote on the Minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-793.ana.u12	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-793.ana.u13	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-793.ana.u14	SANTANGELO (M5S). Madam President, I renew my request for a quorum check. Verification of quorum
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-793.ana.u15	I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators, by electronic procedure. (The request is supported). I therefore call on the senators to make their presence known by electronic means. (Follows the quorum check.) The Senate has a quorum. Resumption of the debate on the Minutes I put the Minutes to the vote. It's approved.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-793.ana.u16	The list of senators on leave and absent on assignment received from the Senate, as well as further communications to the Assembly, will be published in Annex B to today's Minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-793.ana.u17	I would warn you that qualified votes can be taken in the course of today's sitting by electronic means. Therefore, from this moment on, the period of 20 minutes from the notice provided for in Article 119 (1) of the Regulation (at 11:53 a.m.).
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-793.ana.u18	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-793.ana.u19	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-793.ana.u20	D'Ambrosio Lettieri (CoR). Madam President, Emanuele Morganti is the name of a 20-year-old boy who was brutally slaughtered a few days ago by a pack of animals in human form. President, today in Alatri (the country in which this boy lived), the city was proclaimed mourning to honor his memory, but also to draw the attention of the country and the institutions against all forms of violence, bullying and even omerta. I leave it to you, Madam President, during the sitting, when you consider it, to consider whether you should devote a minute's suspension of work to assign our mindful thoughts to this boy. PRESIDENT. - The debate is Thank you, Senator, for reminding us of such a gruesome fact.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-793.ana.u21	The next item is the debate on motions 1-00751 tabled by Senator Mandelli and other senators, abbreviated pursuant to Rule 157 (3) of the Rules of Procedure, 1-00753, tabled by Senator Barani and other senators, 1-00754, tabled by Senator Bignami and other senators, and 1-00755, presented by Senator D'Ambrosio Lettieri and other senators, on Down syndrome. I call Senator Mandelli to explain motion No 751.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-793.ana.u22	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, on 21 March, in New York, at the United Nations headquarters, the World Day of Down Syndrome was celebrated, an international event officially sanctioned by a UN resolution. The choice of the date of March 21 is not at all random, because Down syndrome is also called trisomy 21 and is characterized by the presence of an extra chromosome (three instead of two) in the chromosome pair number 21 within the cells: hence the choice of the date of March 21. Even in view of the limited time available to me, for many reasons, I would like to explain the objective of the motion at my first signature, which is to make it clear that Down people have the same desires and tensions as we do, they want to receive an education that is up to them, to have a job and even affective life opportunities. For me it is important to emphasize how it is necessary to think of them with inclusive projects of independent life. Today's sitting also gives us the opportunity to reflect together in this House on the fact that on 18 March, in the Official Journal, the essential levels of assistance (LEA) were published. One of the facts that I would like to bring to the attention of this House is that, with the new LEAs, some diseases that were thought of as rare, are now thought of as chronic diseases. This penalises the care of people suffering from these diseases, because, for example, the choice to exclude from the list of rare diseases Down syndrome results in the loss of specificity of this syndrome. Therefore, that framework, which was necessary to make these people enjoy a network of reference and take charge, with the transition from the nave of rare diseases to that of chronic diseases comes a little 'to get lost. Instead, we need the person with Down's syndrome to have a precise reference during the course of the disease. Another problem I would like to mention is the fact that, with the transition from rare disease to chronic disease, research, which when it comes to a rare disease is supported in a particular way, loses the possibility of being subsidised through donations; therefore, there could be a slowdown in the research activity itself and, more generally, a loss of attention and centrality of this syndrome. This is also the time to point out that in Annex No 8 of the essential levels of assistance, the specific indication of the health benefits to which these persons are entitled will be identified by the individual regions and not by means of a precise and detailed list, which can be found within the LEA itself. This will pose a number of problems that colleagues can well imagine, because they know well that our health care is declined differently from Region to Region. I would therefore like to list the three points that characterise the meaning of the motion at my first signature. Firstly, the Government is committed to taking measures to ensure the assistance of parents of children suffering from Down syndrome in the structures responsible for the diagnosis of this disease and to provide them with adequate information on all support measures and conditions of school, social and professional inclusion currently available to people with this syndrome. The Government is then committed to taking initiatives to encourage, in financial terms, research activities for the reasons I have mentioned above and the development of projects and programmes to support children with cognitive and learning difficulties, especially in the evolutionary age, redefining the guidelines for assistance to people in this condition, precisely for that concept of taking charge that I remembered at the beginning of my speech. Finally - and I end - we intend to commit the Government to putting in place initiatives that improve the living conditions of people with Down syndrome, taking into account their increased life prospects. [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-793.ana.u23	I call Senator Barani to explain motion No 753.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-793.ana.u24	Madam President, on the occasion of the celebration of the World Down syndrome day on 21 March 2017, my Group also tabled a motion on trisomy 21. In Italy, there are 40,000 people affected by this disease and there is talk of a new born every 1,000, although we believe that their number is less. Because of the heart and respiratory defects that such subjects have and their difficulties in integrating them into society, school and the world of work, there is a need to ensure that they are properly integrated into the family and to trust their parents after us and after them. A draft law of initiative of the undersigned has been able to become law: I refer to the Act of the Senate 292, absorbed in the measure become law 22 June 2016, n. 112, which includes provisions in the matter of assistance in favour of persons with serious disabilities without family support, which therefore bears my signature. Basically, we helped. I would like to sum up the motion that we have tabled, since we recognise that Senator Mandelli has just described it in a very precise and serious way. The motion aims first of all to commit the Government to taking initiatives aimed at encouraging, in financial terms, research activities and the development of projects and programmes to support children with Down syndrome. The representative of the government is a little distracted and I would like to point out that, although it is not written in the motion, we believe that much must also be done on the issue of prevention during gestation. At the time the disease is diagnosed, you can let the woman and parents decide whether to continue, or stop pregnancy, but the important thing is to put in condition all pregnant women to know if you are in the presence of trisomy 21. Our Group is there and supports this form of prevention in an important way. Secondly, the motion intends to commit the Government to implement initiatives that improve the living conditions of people with Down syndrome, taking into account their increased life prospects. Those suffering from Down's syndrome today reach sixty years of age, while forty or fifty years ago the average life was ten or twelve years. Now there are cases of people over seventy years of age. The motion therefore intends to commit the Government to putting in place appropriate investments aimed at strengthening the independence of people with Down syndrome who, moreover, translate into a great social gain, as well as to promote policies for the promotion of sports practice in favour of these subjects with physical and intellectual disabilities, in order to increase the level of social inclusion. We also call for school inclusion to be encouraged and for the bullying of the unfortunate citizens affected by this syndrome to be reduced. We have already mentioned family tranquillity, referring to the law on the "After us". We also commit the Government to proceed with the definition of the essential levels of benefits in the social field to be guaranteed to people with Down's syndrome and the related health programmes to be provided in their favour and - last point - to assess the opportunity to widen the audience of beneficiaries and to ensure that the time and methods of concrete implementation of services and direct support for people and families of people with Down's syndrome are clear. Of course, we too, as has been done by the United Nations, on 21 March each year we commit ourselves to raising public awareness of this tragedy, in order to meet the girls and boys affected by this serious syndrome, which now, with cardiological and cardiorespiratory therapies, is also able to guarantee a good living condition.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-793.ana.u25	I call Senator Bignami to explain motion No 754.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-793.ana.u26	Madam President, I have in my hands the United Nations Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities which we, as a State, have signed. Article 10 concerns the right to life. Senator Barani, the right to life! [[Applause from Senator Castaldi.]] We're talking about people, not gestation products. And, if they have become one in a thousand, it is also because the number of abortions has grown, which also increase out of ignorance. Everything Senator Barani mentioned earlier is certainly also due to physical problems, such as heart disease: half of people with Down's syndrome are born with severe heart disease that did not work ten years ago and therefore - it is true - that before there were two, three, five years of life. The problem is another: it is true that they are now born less but, if we are to talk about conceptions, they remain constant; it means that simply increases the number of people with Down syndrome who are thrown away. [[Applause from Senators D'Ambrosio Lettieri and Giovanardi]] I take my motion. The premises are more or less the same as those of all the other motions presented and, therefore, I do not dwell on the small time available. There are, on the other hand, points on which I would ask the Secretary-General to pay attention. The first concerns the commitment to adopt the ICF standard assessment. We are also fighting on the front of the recognition of the care giver figure and we have the difficulty of counting the very serious situations (I am not just referring to Downs, but I am talking, in general, about those who have disabilities, intellectual or not). In the second point, we call for measures to be taken to ensure the care of the families of people with mental disabilities or Down's syndrome, by strengthening, or establishing, where necessary, the structures of the National Health Service. We may not know, but the South and North of the country speak two completely different languages. If a person has a child suffering from Down's syndrome in the South, he has to go 60, 80 kilometers of road to do some therapies; whereas in the North the concentrations of structures are at more human levels. We try to have maps on the territory and really understand what services we offer, if they are really the same for everyone and distributed with the same homogeneity. We also call for adequate information at national level on the support measures (and I hope that we will not send Senator Barani); for initiatives to improve the living conditions of those who assist these people; to ensure that all the existential process of the person affected by Down's syndrome is taken care of; in fact, these people are usually taken care of with great care just born, but, after finishing the upper classes, they are abandoned and, sometimes, abandoned even earlier, because neuropsychiatrics do not have the funds and there is no more money to pay the educator. I speak from personal experience, because since January of this year my son has recovered and no longer has any kind of assistance, and not because he is no longer suffering from Down's syndrome, but simply because the funds have run out, Mr. Undersecretary. There are also forecasts of the Erasmus programme, as part of its regular reviews: children with Down's syndrome who have everything - with enormous success - only count on the fingers of one hand and, therefore, are asked to have such a possibility for them as well. Then there are very practical and not theoretical indications that, however, if put into practice, they could really give these people the opportunity to live a little more dignified existence. In particular, I would like to mention two points that I particularly care about. I am referring in the first place to the provision of relief for these people who have a romantic life, live in copy and are autonomous, but they hardly find anyone who rents them a room, a house, a home, because there are still so many prejudices and we live in the horror of having to give their home to people who, on the other hand, have skills and who, if they are able to go to ask for a rent, are probably also able to manage a home. The motion then contains a whole series of predictions for the school. Finally, it is very important that these people go to work but - as Senator Barani said - because they live less, it is unfortunately not foreseen that the contributions they pay are recognised from the point of view of social security. [[Applause from the Mixed Groups and M5S, and Senators De Biasi and Lucio Romano.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-793.ana.u27	I greet Dr. Paolo Virgilio Grillo, president of the Italian Association of Down People, who is following our work. This is a very special day and I thank the President for being here with us. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-793.ana.u28	I call Senator D'Ambrosio Lettieri to explain motion No 755.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-793.ana.u29	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, Mr Undersecretary, I would like to ask for a few more minutes in advance, because my Group will not be intervening in this debate.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-793.ana.u30	The Presidency authorizes it to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-793.ana.u31	D'Ambrosio Lettieri (CoR). Madam President, a Checco Zalone commercial recently received great success and attention from the public and the Network in favour of research into spinal muscle atrophy, which is a rare disease, very different from the Down syndrome we are dealing with today. However, what unites them in that spot is a characteristic and I would say essential element of the message launched by the famous Apulian comedian: the normality with which Zalone treats the child protagonist of the television clip. Normality is what people with disabilities are entitled to. Well, my colleague, Laura Bignami, did talk about people with disabilities. Normality is the key word together with awareness: awareness of the fact that diversity is normal; awareness that disability, in a different way, with different entities and in different periods of life, is nevertheless an integral part of the life of all of us (just think of the common visual defects or the cognitive and motor difficulties connected to the advancement of age or to a particular customary work); awareness of the fact that alongside every disability there is a skill, that behind every disability there is a person and that the person does not coincide with the disability that he has, simply because he is something else from it, is a potentiality and even - for those who believe - a gift of God. Respect for dignity, individual autonomy, freedom to make one's own choices and independence are fundamental and indispensable values, which must find in everyday life concrete tools of equal accessibility to the opportunities of life, also for the person carrying Down syndrome. I will not quote figures, but I will quote the chapters that represent the sides to which the House, politics, the political decision-maker in general, Parliament and the Government must pay attention. Work, education, the future of these people and territorial inequalities are the areas on which we must obviously take a substantial step forward. You see, industry legislation is absolutely neither fragile nor inadequate; of course, it can improve. The UN Convention, which became the law of the Italian State in 2009, also provided for the establishment of a national observatory on the condition of persons with disabilities, which should, Mr. Undersecretary, be set up with some urgency. Then there is the issue of funds. I realize the objective difficulties at a particular time for the economic stagnation of the country, but it is necessary to allocate some additional resources and above all to spend the resources better. To do what? We begin to think - for example - of the need for a standardised assessment of the status of the person with disabilities, in order to have homogeneous behaviors also on the application of the rules throughout the national territory. Then there is the assistance to the parents of children with Down syndrome or, more generally, intellectual disabilities, with overcoming the state of loneliness in which all too often families live. Knowledge of support measures needs to be promoted, because there are so many good things to be done, but too little is known about them: a window should be set up to provide more effective information to people who need access to services and services, including those relating to school, sports, social and professional inclusion. It is necessary to integrate LEAs with appropriate measures to promote scientific research, support for integration projects and redefinition of the criteria for assistance; and to promote initiatives to improve living conditions, taking into account increased life prospects. It is also important to redefine a more favourable relationship between the level of disability and employability, which represents the entry passport within the recognition that our community must devote even more effectively to these people. It is necessary to facilitate access to training traineeships, with tax reward measures for employment-enhancing companies. Then there are the social security measures, both those aimed at revising the requirements for access to social security benefits, relating them to the working and contributory capacities of the people to whom we refer today, and those aimed at promoting complementary forms of social security, which allow, even through voluntary payments, to be able to allocate a small, richer piggy bank for the future of these people. Support for families is also an important aspect, with a facilitated social security scheme in relation to the period of care actually provided. These are the proposals that we in the Conservative and Reformist Group make in our motion, Mr Undersecretary, Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, so that on 21 March they may also give back their rights to these people, who may not be unfortunate, but who have conditions that we need to care more about and to which we need to give some attention and greater respect. [[Applause from the CoR Group and the Senators Bencini and Bignami.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-793.ana.u32	On behalf of the Assembly, I greet the teachers and students of the Scientific High School Niccolò Copernico in Bologna, who are attending our work. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-793.ana.u33	I call the President-in-Office of the Council.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-793.ana.u34	Madam President, this agenda is in line with the motions that have just been put forward. It speaks of people who are not self-sufficient, who are still considered to be subjects of extreme social fragility. There are some critical issues which have not yet been specifically addressed, such as architectural barriers, inadequate welfare and recreational responses, the absence of services aimed at full family responsibility, the lack of home services, etc. It is clear that all too often the rights of these non-self-sufficient people run the risk of being unenforced. We cannot talk about people who are not self-sufficient without talking at the same time about the families who follow them daily. Citizenship rights of non-self-sufficient persons cannot be limited to access to health services, education in schools and universities and the provision of forms of support. With this agenda we asked to expose the false equation "you're a happy guy if you don't have Down syndrome, while you're unhappy if you have it," also because today it's almost true the opposite, as some American studies show: out of a hundred Down guys, 98 are considered extremely happy. [[Applause from Senator Bignami.]] That equation, therefore, is absolutely not true. We talk about lives that throughout their duration require care, patience, attention and perseverance, and also a lot. Normally you are born healthy and you die sick, and the best I become the worst; this "sick" instead, as sometimes is called a Down boy, gives you awareness throughout your life. Who judges what is best, Madam President? Maybe someone who has blue eyes and a particular intelligence? Maybe not. I met Senator Bignami's son, when he came to the Senate for a demonstration, a pussy of the Madonna, with a pretty butterfly and a white shirt, and her mother was proud to introduce me. This must in no way make our colleague proud, to whom I will then give that applause which I could not do before, at the end of his speech, because I was writing my own. Well, who judges what is the best? We can't do that. Someone who has had the ability to interpret in a very positive way the welcome of a child does so. If life is helped in its achievement and sustained in its difficulties, surely it can be absolutely richer for those families and even a little 'for all of us. A family must be supported and protected in its fragility, in the course of life, if it happens to them; it will find solutions and walk by itself, becoming tinted with help and support for the future. An investment, then, on this issue, on children with Down syndrome and their families is an investment that we make for our future, Madam President. If the state can do this, it will make sense for all of us. On our agenda, we call for the government to commit itself to ensuring tax benefits that support disabled people in general, but specifically for the syndrome mentioned; to adopt, with all the tools at its disposal, the issues related to the labour law of disabled people; to put in place initiatives that improve the living conditions of people with Down syndrome; to guarantee these people a project of individualized life and a system of protection and global assistance; to promote a renewed culture of life, adopting initiatives aimed at taking care of the parents of children suffering from Down syndrome. Let us always remember that behind these people there are families, there are subjects working around their world and there is a need for certainties. It is only with proper attention to these issues, with a document that we have drawn up - the four motions presented are all of the same tenor - that we can do something good. Perhaps in these cases politics has the ability to put together all the thinking heads and to do something good about a serious problem. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group and Senator Bignami.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-793.ana.u35	Every now and then we distract ourselves and use language that is not appropriate to this House. I therefore urge the senators to always be very attentive to the language they use, even if in the case of the Senator Council it has been done with affection towards the boy they were talking about. I call Senator Panizza to explain the G2 agenda.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-793.ana.u36	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, representative of the Government, first of all I would like to thank all the Members who have presented the motions and who have wished to raise a subject that is very closely relevant to our territory, as indeed the whole country. I have to say that I have appreciated all the motions and documents that have been tabled, to which we wanted to add our agenda only in order to specify certain aspects that are particularly important to us, some of which I felt were missing from the other motions. I immediately assume that the Italian welfare model has enhanced the role of people with intellectual disabilities with Down syndrome and especially with Law 104 has taken a big step forward. Many interventions, therefore, have been carried out and on the territory there are associations that work very well and with great quality, supported by the public body and also by the private, who put in the foreground and directly involve the families concerned. Last Saturday I participated in an open day of Casa Serena in Trento, a structure of ANFFAS, which manages and supports some subjects suffering from Down syndrome. I must say that the impression has been that of a well-organized reality and that guests have a good quality of care and an excellent quality of life throughout the day. It is clear that the family is at the center of all interventions, also because the family has a great impact, of course, on the presence of a child with intellectual disability and Down syndrome. That is why the points we have included on our agenda are first and foremost about the issue of pensions for parents and mothers in particular, who are assisting their children and are therefore shocked by all their work, which must be neglected. We are already studying, together with the ANFFAS Trentino and the ANFFAS Nazionale, a draft law providing for the introduction of this measure. I believe, however, that if today the Government accepted the commitment to consider the problem, it would take a very important political step. Today we have only made a few proposals. In particular, it is asked that under particular conditions - I have indicated certain criteria that can then be changed - parents who assist children with intellectual disabilities or with Down syndrome, with disabilities established under Law No 104, who are close to the retirement age and have paid at least fifteen years of contributions, can obtain the minimum pension. It is basically a matter of restoring the rules before 1992, when this was the requirement to obtain the minimum pension. I then added another requirement: the demonstration that they have been devoting themselves to the child with disabilities for ten years. The second aspect that interested me was planned and that is not contained in any of the motions presented is about regular involvement, a kind of good practice in the active involvement of reality and the most representative associations in the national field that deal with intellectual disabilities and Down syndrome. There are many who work, who have direct experience in this field and it is the realities that directly deal with it. We therefore believe that this commitment should also be included in a law and formally provided for as a good practice. The last commitment is to ensure support for people with intellectual disabilities or Down syndrome to promote their self-determination, supporting movements and self-representation platforms. Today there is a movement that tries to group people with Down syndrome, but they are able to decide their own future. It is not about overtaking families, but about being able to enhance, make protagonists and put at the centre the people who are able to decide, suggest and choose what they want to do. This movement, therefore, must - in our opinion - be supported at the moment when there are people who are able to be autonomous, without dependent on families, but avoiding to disown the role of the latter which is absolutely central in this field. If the Government wants to take account of the commitments we have made to it, we will be happy to take note of them, while at the same time supporting the commitments of the other motions, which are all absolutely acceptable. [[Applause from Senator Bignami.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-793.ana.u37	I declare the debate open. Senator Council is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-793.ana.u38	Madam President, I apologise for the expression used in my previous speech, but it is the one with which Senator Bignami presents Gian Antonio to her friends and now we have also discovered his son's name. President, there are about 48,000 people suffering from Down's syndrome, and therefore with an intellectual disability, who are trying to make sure that you say enough to the prejudice that wants to see them only as weights and people to be assisted and cared for. They are saying enough about discrimination, and they are doing so by becoming more and more protagonist and awareness of their fundamental rights. There is a cultural change that must change - and must do so profoundly - that social context in which it does not always happen. At the heart of the changes must be the children with the disabilities in question. There are still too few people with Down syndrome who have access to the world of work and have the chance to move on with their studies. Senator Bignami told us before that at some point it suddenly heals due to lack of funds. Even in the school context, there are always few means of ensuring full inclusion. These people are not always put in the optimal conditions to best express the enormous potential they possess and, not rarely, even today, there are phenomena of bullying and stigmatizing definitions. It is a test, Mr President, of great ignorance, if not even of pure malice. Many programmes and different guidelines have led to an increasing push towards greater emancipation of people with trisomy 21. Thanks to these changes, individuals suffering from Down's syndrome have the possibility of achieving sufficient autonomy both at work and in social life, and many of them take a diploma, and some even graduate, while others open activities with great success and do paid work. These people, even if they need to be managed and accompanied in order to deal with the simplest problems, demonstrate for a great capacity for self-determination in common life. They need extremely favorable care and family environments. It is very common for vocational training to promote their serious integration into society. These are extraordinarily positive aspects, especially as regards the start of the school course for children. It happens very often that people with Down syndrome tend to varying degrees to remain dependent, from a psychological and practical point of view, from parents, relatives or more generally from the reference figures that are outside the family. It is very important then that the person suffering from Down's syndrome develops a fully and early self-image as realistic as possible, because knowledge of their limitations and abilities will make it possible for them to adapt better to social life. And, in this regard, he first recalled some projects, such as B&Bs run by kids with Down's syndrome, which gave perfect body to the ideas that society can put in place for them. What we have all embraced is a mission that has the objective of social inclusion: true inclusion, however, made up of concrete things, human relationships and daily life, in order to ensure to the children a serious and complete opportunity for life and work and to concentrate, also in school and in family life, attention to the principle of equality, very often proclaimed, flagheaded, but not always fully realized. Madam President, I would like to return to the content of the motions before us and to our agenda. If people affected by Down's syndrome are increasingly integrated into society and organised communities, such as school, health care, work and recreational and social activities; if families are informed, if they are helped and a whole range of others are involved, then we have to ask ourselves: and if what we do, what the State and society do, is not enough instead? If the State, when could it do so, does it not intervene to improve the situation? What if even more adequate training is needed? What if, thanks to health projects and medical technology that have led to an increase in life expectancy for such subjects compared to the past, the contribution of parents is no longer sufficient, because they also grow old at the same time? And if it is not allowed that listening to these families can take place in a serious way and access to health care, including bureaucracy, is really simple? If, after so many people, Madam President, we do not have the capacity to interpret in a positive way the motions for our examination and to ensure that something happens, then I personally can only conclude with a 'if' my speech. [[Applause from Senator Bignami]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-793.ana.u39	He's enlisted to speak Senator Count. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-793.ana.u40	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, getting a proper education, finding a job, going to live alone: needs that no one would dream of defining as special except when talking about people with Down syndrome. "Not special needs" is precisely the hashtag chosen by the international associations for the World Day on Down Syndrome, celebrated last March 21, to underline the need for normality that these people need. In Italy there are about 40,000 people suffering from the syndrome, with an average age of 25 years. The condition affects about one new born in a thousand and if at the beginning of the twentieth century the average survival was ten years, now about 80 percent of the population exceeds fifty. In Italy it is estimated that average survival has reached sixty-two years, also due to improvements in the medical field, which - for example - are now able to correct much of the heart defects that often occur in those suffering from the syndrome. The expression "special needs" is a widespread euphemism to talk about people with disabilities and their needs. But, to look good, people with Down syndrome have the same needs as anyone else: studying, working, having opportunities, making their voices heard and being heard. Of course, they may need support, which sometimes means real assistance, but that doesn't change the nature of those needs, in the sense that it doesn't make special needs that are simply human. A person who needs help in speaking, writing or being understood has the same need as all of us, that is, to communicate. The only thing different is the degree of assistance or the way to satisfy that need, not the need itself. In Italy we have made an important legislative path, which started from school integration and then arrived at the law on employment integration. And also the law on the "After us" wanted to enrich the issue of rights and the response to the needs of people with Down syndrome. At the legislative level, however, sufficient resources are still lacking to ensure that laws are enforced. Even at an international level, there is a move towards inclusion, although in many countries everyone's right to attend school is still substantially denied. Only Italy and Spain have laws that provide for total inclusion. In most other countries of the world there is still the double channel: schools of all and special schools, with the orientation of children, from time to time, from one side to the other. Not to mention some countries where the special school is absolutely prevalent, such as Japan or the countries of the East. In addition to the necessary level of education for people suffering from Down's syndrome, other issues relating to their lives today are relevant to the legislator's eyes. For example, with the care available today, we are seeing an increasingly adult population. One of the hottest themes at this time is to ensure resources and services for life away from home, because people with Down's syndrome will survive their parents and, therefore, will need residential solutions for the after us. But there will also be people who, once they become adults, will simply want or need to get out of the house. In recent years, a lot of work has been done to make people with Down's syndrome as autonomous as possible, so surely something has changed. Today we see people taking the bus alone; also some experiences of low-intensity apartment group. But it is also true that a person with Down syndrome (which, remember, is a person with a variable degree of intellectual disability, but who is still present) needs some supports that accompany him a little 'over his life. Two important scenarios open after school. One is the theme of work: only 13% of people with Down syndrome, however those in contact with associations, work, and could be many more. And of course, those people who have such difficulties that they cannot go to work, however, must guarantee employment activities that allow them to live peacefully. And there's still so much to do about it. Then there is the whole theme of residential solutions. It is clear that we need a great deal of commitment from the state and local authorities, in the sense that it is not conceivable that a family can bear the costs of a residential solution on its own. Working on the possible autonomy already in adolescence will allow you to interact with adults who know how to cover their basic needs (washing, dressing, cooking a meal or going shopping) and who only need support with regard to the organization of the long term, the economic budgets and the management of unexpected events. If, on the contrary, we do not work with these people of teenage age, we should think of structures with care figures all day long. The objective to be pursued, both through legislative activity and through social awareness actions, is to contribute to a profound change of attitude towards people with Down syndrome and, more generally, towards the world of disability. We want to give our children opportunities and tools that can guarantee them a peaceful future and convince them that they must be themselves to claim it, making their voices heard directly. Let's break the prejudices. Integration is a primary right of persons with disabilities and not a gesture of human benevolence linked to the willingness of the various social operators to welcome those defined as disadvantaged. As evidenced in so many spheres of human action, people suffering from Down's syndrome are, very often, united by the deep will to show the whole world that they can do and donate so much to others. May their tenacity and stubbornness be rewarded and not hindered by old barriers. Let's start from this point, learning from them: we would definitely have a society with a more human face. [[Applause from the AP-CpE Group and Senator Bignami]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-793.ana.u41	Senator Bignami is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-793.ana.u42	Madam President, I would like to touch on a number of aspects that I have not been able to deal with previously on time issues. Why are we here? Because in LEA Down syndrome goes from rare disease to chronic disease. What's the difference? Change. They change the investments and the money, the funds available. Here's what changes: money for research changes. I would use, then, these five minutes for the meaning of the word "research." What is research? Is it just the pharmaceutical one, just the one in the field of medicine? I would extend the meaning of the term to scientific research. Why? How? Simple. You all said it: there are guys with Down syndrome who follow the class program. Is there any research on this? Anyone interested in figuring out why these kids are doing better than others? What are the keys of time, such as learning, what are the teachers of support who sit near them? Why are there kids with Down's syndrome coming out of high school and can't tell the syllables? This is the research that a Undersecretary must do: he must understand why there are kids with Down syndrome perfectly able to manage their lives with complete self-determination and others, instead, completely dependent. That's the research. Why are there kids with Down's syndrome working? Here you have to do the research: what did you do to get a job? Other types of research: why do some manage to be completely autonomous and others not? We leave out those who have pathologies that aggravate their situation, but here we are simply talking about mental retardation and how this delay is treated by everyone, by all the people around them. Unfortunately, none of us is what it is without the people around it: we are the result of all the interactions we have with the people who are close to us. That's where we need to research. We need to do research on the type of people who are close to these people and on what their weight is in relation to the goal of learning and mental enhancement of people. I like the origin of the word "persona": phersu. Why is only 5% of gyms accessible to disabled people? 5 percent is a scary figure, yet healthy mens in healthy body. There are very few teachers who make themselves available for these boys to take courses not for them but for everyone, because where there are these boys the environments improve. These children are not genetically predisposed to evil and therefore all environments, even those working, are improved by their presence. Above all, they improve managers, managers and leaders, because the presence of these people forces them to do important things that should be done with everyone: to have the ability to listen, to put themselves in place of the other and to get into communication. We therefore thank the fact that these people exist, which give us the opportunity to discover worlds, which otherwise would be completely unknown and obscure to us. Mr Secretary, I therefore want to offer you the keystone and the solution, which lies in the ability to make difficult things complex. Here you don't all have the same IQ (IQ), the terrible thing that is attributed to these boys with mental discomfort and that is written to them on the forehead, because the IQ is not equal even between us. A high IQ always solves all the difficult solutions, but any type of IQ can solve the complex situations simplified by people with a high IQ, which can turn them into a path made up of small steps, lined up one after the other. Even if it is 12, 15 or 20 steps, these small and simple steps can compose a complex situation. Pretending instead that you have zero-time performance, which requires you to put cognitive skills in play that unfortunately not all have, leads to situations of cognitive difficulty. I therefore call on you to turn difficult situations into complex situations in all areas and we will see that we will certainly be able to achieve so many results by taking small steps. However, trained teachers are needed, while the school allows people with no experience and no qualifications to work as a support teacher, in possession of a simple degree. I'm sorry, but that's not enough. How is it not enough to take a guy of this kind and throw him into a working environment, without having first prepared the people around him. This is therefore the keystone: we must provide competent people in every area... [[The microphone automatically switches off]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-793.ana.u43	Senator Bignami, you have to conclude: I have already given you well beyond the time at your disposal.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-793.ana.u44	BIGNAMI (Misto-MovX). All right, Madam President. [[Applause from the Mixed Group and the Council and Divine Senators.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-793.ana.u45	Senator Rizzotti is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-793.ana.u46	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, I take the opportunity of the World Day of Down Syndrome to address today a number of problems related to this syndrome. There is no doubt that great progress has been made in recent years. There is no doubt that you do not remember when having a child suffering from Down syndrome was considered a shame and I am not talking about too many years ago: when these children were called mongoloids, when their sociality was very difficult and it was unlikely, if not impossible, their school integration. I still remember, a few decades ago, when at a plastic surgery congress some American colleagues proposed, in order to promote integration, surgery on the Mongol pplica and macroglossia, which was one of the first causes of death by suffocation and pneumonia to ingestis, precisely in order to facilitate integration, because through it you have a remarkable increase of the famous IQ. Certainly there are the gruesome facts of news, bullying and violence that make us understand that this work of integration, culture and civilization is far from over, but in any case we must think that these people always ask us to do more. It is clear that the improvement of living and health conditions has raised their life expectancy, which at the beginning of the twentieth century was nine years, only thirty years ago it was twenty-five years and today it has reached sixty years. We must therefore devote a greater share of funds, not only to the most sensitive part of the syndrome, namely prenatal diagnosis, but to making great efforts in two very precise directions: on the one hand, we must increase the funds for research on rehabilitation and the progressive elimination of elective deficits and learning disorders, especially in the stages of growth; on the other hand, we must support the efforts of families, educators and schools, remembering that a State that helps people with disabilities in practice is a necessary and indispensable condition for the general growth of society. Families must be faced with new problems and challenges, as the average age of people suffering from Down's syndrome increases, as well as new tools to access. There is talk of nearly 40,000 families, with hopes and difficulties, their dramas and triumphs. In this regard, of course, the inclusion of Down's syndrome as chronic disease in LEA and no longer a rare disease will lead to a reduction of funds for families who often experience excessive difficulties or are not sufficiently informed about support measures. With this motion we today ask the Government for funding, measures and assistance that can further improve the living conditions of those who suffer from Down syndrome in Italy. [[Applause from the FI-PdL XVII Group and Senator Bonfrisco]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-793.ana.u47	She is registered to speak Senator Fasiolo. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-793.ana.u48	I apologise to my colleagues, but I will be strict about respect for the times because we are at the end of the sitting.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-793.ana.u49	Madam President, I would like to stress that today's occasion is absolutely important, as is the first-signed motion by Senator Mandelli, whom I have signed, and the other ones I welcome. The World Day of Down Syndrome, which took place on March 21, is absolutely significant, because it intends to spread a greater awareness of the syndrome and promote maximum integration for those suffering from this chromosomal anomaly, trisomy 21. It has to be said that scientific research has made enormous advances in diagnostics, i.e. the early stages of prenatal and medical diagnosis, as well as in psychopedagogy. The improvement in the living and health conditions of Downs over the last few years has already been widely highlighted, which are able to reach adulthood in an overall state of well-being. In this regard, I would like to stress how important it was to have started early and targeted self-learning interventions in the school world, thanks also to the intervention of multimedia, in order to allow Down boys and girls to acquire skills and knowledge. This was unimaginable until a few decades ago. As has already been said, the extension of schooling has highlighted unsuspectable resources and abilities a few years ago, as well as attitudes and interests that have led some students to reach high levels, not only in the area of autonomy, but also by obtaining a diploma and a degree. In the light of my experience in the world of school (I have had the opportunity to be part of the provincial interinstitutional working groups and also to direct training courses for support teachers), I have to say that the world of school has grown a lot and, thanks to the good school, we have recruited many teachers with skills that will certainly be growing more and more. And I'd like to stop your attention here for a moment on the world of research. Surely you need to invest more in research for new possible development areas for children and girls Down. Here the government's commitment is already there and it would be good if there were even more in the future. It should be said that school and social inclusion has greatly improved, as well as employment integration, thanks also to the success of the protected laboratories. In addition, we must remember that we have started important reforms, launched by the Renzi Government, on social agriculture, and on important opportunities provided by the alternation between school and work. I know that time is running out and so I will try to sum up my speech which - alas - is a little complex and too analytical. I would like to point out that it is very important to focus on good practices, on those methods that have been most effective, such as cooperative learning, peer education, mentoring work, collaboration and cooperation within the class among students. Certainly the function of the teacher is fundamental: it must monitor with corrective interventions and reinforcement. One aspect that I would like to highlight very quickly concerns some experiments in schools, such as facilitated teaching: this type of methodology should also be deepened and monitored. Then you have to look at the needs of your parents and support them. Parents certainly need assistance and support. We therefore need an inclusion which must not be limited to the school dimension, to the stages of schooling, but must also extend to adult life, to the world of work, to the paths that reach until after us, the law that is so important recently adopted in Parliament.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-793.ana.u50	Senator, I still apologize to you. I authorize you, if you think, to hand over the written intervention. Senator Bonfrisco is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-793.ana.u51	Madam President, it will take me very little time to say something which, in my opinion, is of great importance. The debate on this morning's motions, which will end, after the Government's replies, with our explanations of vote, has seen so many analyses and proposals; but perhaps to us, of today's debate, it remains a small concrete act, which I have the pleasure to announce here, now, in the Chamber. I got to know the activity of Special Olympics, which tries and manages to involve in sports a large number of girls and boys with differences or mental disabilities. Thanks to the patronage of Special Olympics, but above all to the sensibility and attention of the Senate, the President Grasso and the Mixed Group (and I thank the leader Loredana De Petris for all the collaboration she is giving), we have made sure that two young people, a boy and a girl, bearers of these disabilities, of whom one with Down's syndrome, start in a very early stage, in a few days, at the Mixed Parliamentary Group of the Senate of the Republic. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-793.ana.u52	Senator Bonfrisco, this really seems like an interesting initiative. The debate is closed. I would like to refer to the continuation of the debate on motions for a further sitting, which will, of course, be decided by the Conference of Leaders.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-793.ana.u53	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-793.ana.u54	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-793.ana.u55	CANDIANI (LN-Aut). Madam President, I believe that the situation needs to be considered: it is at least unusual that a debate on such a sensitive subject has begun and has not continued until the vote. I believe that we can proceed to the afternoon sitting by voting. We do not want to stress this, but it is clear that if we could not proceed this morning it is because of a lack of the Senate Assembly. Please continue the vote and the closure of the measure this afternoon, otherwise this will be yet another bad example in which it remains hung, waiting for a future to come, a measure for which, on the other hand, the sensitivity and general statements had expressed a contrary understanding [[Applause from the LN-Aut and Mixed Groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-793.ana.u56	Senator Candiani, I understand your observation, but, as you know, in the afternoon sitting there is a discussion of a decree-law that expires. The interest of this House and of all the groups seemed to me to be very broad and I think we will soon be able to conclude the examination of the motions. I would remind you that the Secretary's reply and all explanations of vote have yet to be taken, so it is clear that we need some time, given the importance of the subject.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-793.ana.u57	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-793.ana.u58	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-793.ana.u59	MARTELLI (M5S). Madam President, just as regards what is happening here, I would like to understand why we are changing the timetable, because if the debate on the motions on Down's syndrome has been opened, this must be concluded because it is included in the timetable before another point. The timetable for the work of this House reports this; if that is the case, we cannot close and reopen the examination of this point on the basis of a supposed request for confidence that has not yet been made.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-793.ana.u60	Senator, if you look at the agenda, you will notice that the motions on Down's syndrome were scheduled for this morning; as you know, we had to start the discussion at 11 a.m. and instead we started after noon, so we couldn't finish the point. The timetable already sets out what I have announced, so we must proceed according to the timetable we have. [[Senator Martelli's comments.]] Senator, you can check the agenda. Everything is okay, but it says on the agenda that the motions are due to be discussed at 11 a.m. and at 4.30 p.m. the continuation of the discussion of the immigration bill. MARTELLI (M5S). They're scrollin'. It's not like that. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I would say that we can conclude this debate.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-793.ana.u61	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-793.ana.u62	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-793.ana.u63	Mr Calderoli (LN-Aut). Madam President, pursuant to Rule 55, seventh paragraph, of the Rules of Procedure, the Assembly may, at the end of each sitting, decide, either on a proposal from the President or at the request of the Government or of eight senators (and, if necessary, ask you to verify the applicants), in relation to situations which have arisen or are urgent to include on the agenda topics which are also not included (so obviously also those included) in the programme. It is clear that the fact that there has been a lack of quorum for a number of times prevented us from concluding the debate on motions, so on this proposal I would ask you to check the presence of the eight requesting senators and to have this House express itself.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-793.ana.u64	In fact, I would have closed the debate and from this point of view you know that the agenda for the afternoon sitting includes the examination of a decree-law that expires. [[Senator Calderoli's comments.]] However, let us proceed with your proposal, because I have no reason not to follow the Rules of Procedure on the basis of what you are proposing. We therefore check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). We shall therefore proceed to the vote on the proposal put forward by Senator Candiani.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-793.ana.u65	We're asking for a quorum check.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-793.ana.u66	I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators, by electronic procedure. (The request is supported). I therefore call on the senators to make their presence known by electronic means. (Follows the quorum check.) The Senate is not a quorum. Appreciate the circumstances, postpone the continuation of the debate on motions for a further sitting.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-793.ana.u67	The motions, questions and questions received by the Presidency will be published in Annex B to today's report. I remember that the Senate will return to meet in public today, at 4.30 p.m., with the agenda already printed and distributed. The sitting was closed at 13.08 p.m.
