ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-781.ana.u1	The sitting is open (9:34 a.m.). The Minutes shall be read. Mr Pegorer, Secretary, read the Minutes of the afternoon sitting of the previous day.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-781.ana.u2	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-781.ana.u3	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-781.ana.u4	DIVINE (LN-Aut). Mr President, I would like to ask for the vote on the Minutes, subject to a quorum check. Verification of quorum
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-781.ana.u5	I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators, by electronic procedure. (The request is supported). I therefore call on the senators to make their presence known by electronic means. (Follows the quorum check.) The Senate has a quorum. Resumption of the debate on the Minutes I put the Minutes to the vote. It's approved.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-781.ana.u6	The list of senators on leave and absent on assignment received from the Senate, as well as further communications to the Assembly, will be published in Annex B to today's Minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-781.ana.u7	I would warn you that qualified votes can be taken in the course of today's sitting by electronic means. Therefore, from this moment the period of 20 minutes from the notice provided for in Article 119, paragraph 1 of the Regulation (9:38 hours) begins.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-781.ana.u8	Ladies and gentlemen, pursuant to Rule 56 (3) of the Rules of Procedure, I have the reverse of the agenda in the sense of anticipating the examination of draft law n. 2067 and related, in the matter of amendment to the penal code, the code of criminal procedure and the penitentiary order.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-781.ana.u9	The next item is the continuation of the debate on draft law Nos. 2067, 1844 and 2032, already approved by the Chamber of Deputies, 176, 209, 286, 299, 381, 382, 384, 385, 386, 387, 389, 468, 581, 597, 609, 614, 700, 708, 709, 1008, 1113, 1456, 1587, 1681, 1682, 1683, 1684, 1693, 1713, 1824, 1905, 1921, 1922, 2103, 2295 and 2457. I would remind you that at the sitting of 27 September 2016, the rapporteur, Senator Casson, took place. I call the rapporteur, Senator Cucca.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-781.ana.u10	Mr President, it is not easy to reply at such a long time and in such a sudden way. I believe, however, that some words must be spent on what emerged during the general debate which took place on the date you referred to. I will do so in a very schematic way, referring to the statements made by some of my fellow senators who have spoken. I am referring in particular to the interventions of Senators Stefani and Bisinella, who have spoken a lot about the tightening of the sanctioning framework, considering it not to meet the requirements of justice. It seems to me that the framework is perfectly suited to those needs. The request to expand the field of self-defense, made by Senator Stefani, seems to me to have even led to consequences for some verses even aberrant. These measures, in fact, far from enabling the objectives I have mentioned to be achieved, i.e. responding to the demands of justice, would run the risk of opening the way to situations from Far West. Fortunately, we live in a rule of law and it is the State itself that protects public order. It is therefore not possible to allow the individual citizen to take justice for himself. Senator Falanga in his speech raised the objection that there would be many parts destined to be filled by virtue of a blank delegation contained in the measure. This too seems to me to be the result of a perhaps hasty reading of the text because the delegations, far from being blank, are indeed very limited and will have to move, through the decrees, within government activity with well defined and very precise limits. The burning theme of all the reasoning made during the discussion was that of prescription. Senators Nugnes and Ricchiuti and Senators Tosato and D'Anna spoke about this subject on different sides and with different visions. I must point out that - in my opinion - a very important objective has been achieved: the right duration of the process has been ensured and, with the suspension regime provided for in the measure, it has also ensured that the instrumental extensions of the times and the possibility of not defining the process within strictly defined deadlines are avoided. I repeat, therefore, that this was a very hot subject, which was the subject of very long discussions, on which I believe the Commission has found the right balance in resolving the opposing demands. Nor do I intend to reply to those who have argued that it is an ad personam law with reference to the subject of interceptions. It is true that relatively recent facts have helped to give an answer on those issues, but it is absolutely laughable to say that an ad personam law has been drawn up; this is absolutely absurd. Among other things, there has also been talk in this case of delegation in blank; I remember instead that the text, even in the case of interceptions, contains very precise and exhaustive limits within which the delegation must be exercised. Equally ludicrous is the observation that it was intended to tie hands to prosecutors. I believe that this issue should not even be taken into account because it was arguments that were out of any logic and, indeed, in many circumstances we have given very precise answers, which were, among other things, shared by the Commission as a whole. These too are therefore more instrumental and demagogic arguments, with purely populist intents, which seek a benevolent captatio by the electorate. Senator Mineo said that this measure would not be discussed enough. Frankly, it would be enough to read the report of proceedings in the Commission to refute this statement. In fact, there was a very thorough debate and, for this reason, during the general debate, I also thanked my colleagues in the opposition, who made a very valuable contribution, among other things with the presentation of many amendments, which were discussed and, in many circumstances, also adopted, after a close discussion. It does not seem to me that there has been enough discussion and, indeed, some arguments have been distorted, on the basis of a serious and in-depth discussion. With regard to interceptions, this is a burning issue, which has been the subject of lengthy discussions during the Commission's work in the referee. Frankly, it seems to me that the accusation that one wants to interfere in some way with the work of the prosecutors is absolutely unfounded. In fact, the investigation activities are largely precautionary and without prejudice and are tending simply to respond to the need, widely manifested on several occasions by citizenship, to offer greater protection to the confidentiality of communications and conversations of those persons who are accidentally involved or who are related to facts not relevant for the purposes of justice. Again, the criteria are strictly predefined. The regulation, which has long been called for, of the use of the so-called Trojan devices, which has been discussed for a long time, also in the introductory report and then in the course of the general discussion, also moves in this area. I conclude by saying, therefore, that what we are considering is an excellent reform, even if it is dealt with in different attitudes. On the other hand, all representatives of the world of law enforcement agree that this reform was actually needed and it was therefore necessary to address it. As always, it will certainly not be the perfect reform, but it is a perfectable reform. In any case, it represents a very strong signal, which is also intended to give to the world of legal practitioners, through the discussion of extremely burning issues, which have been discussed for years, which are finally regulated through the law delegation to our examination. On the other hand, the reform under consideration continues the path begun by the Government, through a series of reforms already implemented: in fact, it represents a further step in this direction, in compliance with the program of governments that have succeeded each other during the present legislature. It is also necessary to point out - although since we had interrupted the work on this measure, the Government has done something about it - that the measure under consideration will have the best effect if the system is to be properly strengthened: I am referring, for example, to the increase in administrative staff, given that this sector suffers from a considerable shortage of staff. I repeat, however, that competitions have already been launched for an important number of posts and others have been announced by the Government and the same is being done with competitions in the judiciary, which are finally systematically banned for a significant number of posts. Thanks to the strengthening of administrative staff and the judiciary, this reform will be in a position to produce the best effects. Finally, I would like to make a clarification on a subject which has been the subject of many discussions during the last period, namely the content of Article 12 of the draft law under consideration on the procrastination of crimes against property. I must reiterate that in the preparatory work it is clear that the reference to crimes against property is exclusively directed against crimes against the assets of the code system, i.e. those provided for in the penal code, making no reference to the same kind of offences covered and provided for by rules contained in special laws. This too had to be stated so that it would remain in the proceedings on the measure. Finally, Mr President, allow me - and I do not remember if I have done so before - to thank all the Members of the Commission, but also the staff and officials of the Commission, Dr Cavallucci and Mrs Smurra, and Dr Annecchiarico, who, as always, have made a very valuable contribution to carrying out the troubled but very in-depth work carried out by the Commission on the procedure. PRESIDENT. - The debate is He asked the Minister for Relations with Parliament, Senator Finocchiaro.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-781.ana.u11	Mr President, I would like to speak in order to announce - as has already been done at the last Conference of Leaders - the government's deposit yesterday of an amendment, the content of which is known to many members of the Justice Commission, but which I very briefly illustrate to give the House its content. It is an amending proposal that intervenes on the current discipline of the expenses relative to the services, referred to in article 5, paragraph 1), letter i-bis), of the decree of the President of the Republic n. 115 of 2002, on the obligatory performances rendered from the operators of communication and the services functional to the operations of interception. The amendment introduces rules for the reduction of the costs incurred in respect of compulsory services for interceptions, obviously carried out at the disposal of the judicial authority, with a saving target of at least 50% compared to the tariffs of the current price list. It is also expected that the performance of interception operations will be typed in order to redefine the corresponding tariffs correctly through special ministerial decrees. There is an intervention on the rules on the liquidation of justice costs, as set out in the same decree of the President of the Republic, in order to rationalise and optimize the relative management by the judicial offices. Finally, the typing of the services functional to the interception operations is expected to redefine the corresponding tariffs by means of a special ministerial decree, which will have to re-determine them, for each type of performance, to an extent not exceeding the average cost of each, as noted in the previous two years, to the outcome of the monitoring carried out by the Ministry of Justice. In conclusion, the implementation of the measure under consideration expects expenditure savings that can be quantified at 10 million for 2017, 20 million for 2018 and 50 million for 2019. It is of course entrusted with the evaluation of the amendment to the competent Justice Commission.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-781.ana.u12	The Presidency accepts the amendment and, in the interest of discussion, pursuant to Rule 100 (11) of the Rules of Procedure, provides for the provision and postponement of the amendment submitted by the Government to the 2nd Standing Committee, which will have to report on this at the afternoon sitting on Tuesday 14 March.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-781.ana.u13	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-781.ana.u14	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-781.ana.u15	PALMA (FI-PdL XVII). Mr President, I would like to thank the representative of the Government for informing the House that there had been a pre-announcement of the amendment at the Conference of the Leaders. This finally makes the decision that you, Mr President, made on the reversal of the agenda, which seemed to us prima facie yet another authoritarian act completely emptied of motivational premises, having you limited yourself to saying that, as the Rules allow you, the President decides to reverse the agenda. Now we are faced with the presentation of an amendment and its decision, in the total silence of the House, which could, if possible, fully agree with the text of the amendment and with the referral back to the Commission. Mr President, allow me to say that this is a completely unjustified decision, because if the House were to speak with a certain favour from the beginning with respect to the amendment, this would not slow down the debate on it. Indeed, if we were to meet precisely the reverse of the agenda, it would speed it up because we could start immediately with the explanation and the vote on the amendments. Then why is this happening? I know that the Council of Ministers has already approved a vote of confidence. I imagine, therefore, that, in a hypocritical form of respect for practice, we intend to return to the Commission in order to have the okay in the Commission and thus also put confidence in the part relating to the amendment. On the other hand, the scan of the time you have indicated - the process in the Commission should be completed by Tuesday, if I have understood correctly, so as to allow the continuation of the course of this draft law - seems to me to be laying down in this respect. I would like to say to my fellow Members in the New Centre that the imposition of a vote of confidence on this measure means that you are going to vote on all the rules on the limitation you have so far opposed and that they are basically the reason for the blocking of this bill both in the Commission and in this House. You have reached your agreements - I hope so for you, but I certainly do not hope so for the country - and your clinging to the majority I believe will also allow you to vote on those rules that you have opposed throughout your political career and that - to tell the truth - are not in tune with your political history. Mr President, there are two problems I want to raise. The first is the following. [[Comments of Senator Caliendo]] Senator Caliendo, please be serene, too. Which obviously doesn't mean that I don't want to see her or that we shouldn't see each other in the next parliamentary term. That's clear. As I said, the first problem is the following. The amendment is so complicated that it requires a passage to the Commission so as not to tire out the process of this bill. This means that the Commission will have to be engaged on Thursday, Friday, Saturday, Sunday and Monday in the debate on this amendment and then in the preparation of the relevant amendments, being the basis of its reasoning to be demonstrated, namely that there is opposition from the House to the adoption of this amendment. Mr President, by 13 March next Monday, the 2nd Commission and the 1st Commission will have to prepare and submit amendments to the immigration measure. You will say that you will work a little more and prepare the amendments. You can say all this, Mr President, if there is - alas - a small precedent. The President of the Commission, Justice, initially proposed the deadline for amendments to the draft law on the surname of children, which would seem to be much less complicated than the amendment tabled by the Government. But when we pointed out to the President of the Commission that he could not indicate the 13th of this month as the deadline for tabling amendments, because there would have been a overlap with the work that we should have done with reference to the immigration bill, President D'Ascola, with the institutional sensitivity that we all recognize him, agreed and moved the deadline for tabling amendments to 20 of this month. Therefore, I do not understand the reason why you too, Mr President, should not show similar sensitivity or should maintain a decision that goes in stark contrast to that of the President of the Commission. With regard to the second point, Mr President, I believe that you referred to Rule 111 of the Rules of Procedure. MALAN (FI-PdL XVII). Article 100 (11) of the Rules of Procedure. PALMA (FI-PdL XVII). Excuse me. Rule 100 (11) of the Rules of Procedure is suggested to me, to be precise. I basically made a summary of the whole speech. Mr President, my suggestioner tells me that it says in the Rules of Procedure that the President can put aside and refer the Rule back to the Commission with the amendment. In the present case, you would only refer the amendment back to the Commission, which clearly sounds anomalous in several respects. Firstly, the Government has always tabled amendments in the Assembly; sometimes, depending on the presidential sensibility, a small season has opened for sub-amendments and the government's initiative has been quietly absorbed within the Assembly. I imagine that all this has happened to facilitate the process of the bill, not to transmit to the Commission at least the entire article. The second anomaly, Mr President, is that you make an assessment of the admissibility of the sub-amendments which - I would like to say - are not yours. In fact, when the amendment goes to the Commission, the decision on eligibility is the responsibility of the President of the Commission Justice, who will be able - for example - to make eligible sub-amendments which, when touching the Government's amendment, also touch other elements of the articles. You cannot exclude that there can be a link between the amendment tabled by the Government and the text of the entire article concerning telephone interceptions. Consequently, should you ever persist in your decision, I would ask you, Mr President, in respect of everyone's rights, to imagine a different term from that indicated by you for the objective impossibility, already certified by President D'Ascola, to be able to table serious amendments in useful terms, after the necessary deepening of an amendment that is so complicated that you yourself have to refer the text back to the Commission. This is my first request. Secondly, Mr President, if you want to continue your decision, I would ask you to forward to the Commission the entire article on telephone interceptions and not just the amendment tabled by the Government, which clearly cannot be imagined that there is no link between an amendment to the article and the article itself. In fact, if there were no such interconnection, the amendment would not be presentable as inadmissible because of the extraneousness of the object. My two requests, therefore, are, first of all, to allow a slightly more reasonable period for the debate on the amendment and for the presentation, illustration and vote on the amendments; secondly, to set aside and transmit at least the entire article to the Commission.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-781.ana.u16	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-781.ana.u17	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-781.ana.u18	FALANGA (ALA-SCLP). Mr President, I do not want to repeat what has already been fully stated by Senator Palma. The first point, for the truth, concerns his decision. Mr President, you have arranged for the subject to be dealt with differently in this House on the basis of something that has not been understood. The Rules of Procedure allow it, which provides that the President of the Senate may change the discussion of the subjects, just as eight senators can, and, if the President considers it, question the different treatment. You didn't even consider opening a debate on your decision, actually. I cannot imagine a reason why I should be able to anticipate the examination of this measure compared to that for the fight against poverty. I understand, however, that, beyond the determinations of your Office and your Presidency, there are agreements and understandings with a political part of this House which, in my opinion - albeit with due respect - can put some shadows on the third party of the Bureau which you authoritatively chair. As a second point, Mr President, the Minister for Relations with Parliament, Mr Finocchiaro, has tabled and presented an amendment - I asked to read it, but the assistants of the House tell me that it has not yet been printed - which concerns the issue of interception. I think I understand that there is a substantial need for saving expenditure and costs. So the text of the amendment has only come to me at this moment. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. It's been copied. The press takes a little longer. FALANGA (ALA-SCLP). Of course, but I'm only reading it now. Why is there a need for a senator to read this amendment? First of all, it must understand the impact of the proposal on the whole article and on the whole measure, because with an amendment, an article can create imbalances in the whole measure. So, how can one imagine that a measure will only return to the Commission for the examination of that individual amendment? Senator Palma pointed out the need for the whole article to be referred back to the Commission, but there is no need for further reporting. The rule of the Rules of Procedure, in fact, does not allow to refer the measure back to the Commission only for the examination of that amendment, so much so that, in Article 100 (11) of our Rules of Procedure, we read: In the interests of discussion, the President may decide on the provision and referral of individual articles and amendments to the relevant Commission, and not on the individual amendment. But when does this happen? Rule 100 of the Rules of Procedure states that this is in the interest of the debate. This morning the debate has not yet begun. How, then, can a decision be taken which provides that, at the end of the debate, the need for referral back to the Commission may arise? Why is it referred back to the Commission? We've all figured it out. We're not fools. We refer you back to the Commission to examine this amendment, to approve it in the Commission if necessary, to return the measure to the House and to put the trust in order to pass the package as a whole, because in it there is the burning issue of limitation. I do not allow Mr Cucca - and I do not want to do so - to talk about quick reading of the measure. If there is anyone who thinks in haste of solving such delicate issues, this is not my own, but I am the rapporteur and his majority. On the subject I have been careful and there have been in-depth readings, so much so - dear Senator Cucca - that on the subject of prescription I had proposed the solution. You have not been able to say no to the prospect of including crimes against the public administration in that basket that allows the head of the judicial office to speed up its proceedings. You could not say no but, falling into obvious contradiction, say to do these trials before others. This does not take away, however, that the term of the prescription extends: by one verse tell them to do it immediately and, for another, say that you do not have the time, with the risk that they prescribe. In conclusion, an amendment must be seen, analysed and studied in terms of its impact on the whole measure. So, Senator Palma's proposal to refer the whole measure back to the Commission seems to me to be wise, in the interest of those who want to take legal measures that are also technically correct. If, on the other hand, we want to achieve special alchemies in order to isolate a political part which composes this majority of government and to silence it with a vote of confidence on such a sensitive subject, it seems to me that an operation is being carried out which you, Mr President, cannot lend. You, Mr President, must guarantee the third-party status of your office, and this morning you cannot arrange for the order of business to be reversed and for the measure to be returned to the Commission even before your debate, without a senator having had the opportunity to read it not so superficially - as Senator Cucca probably does - but in depth, as - I say very humbly - Senator Falanga usually does. [[Senator Milo's applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-781.ana.u19	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-781.ana.u20	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-781.ana.u21	CALIENDO (FI-PdL XVII). Mr President, I will be very brief: I have not understood on the basis of what you are putting this measure back to the Commission. I'll explain. As both you and Mr Finocchiaro will remember better than me, the text of the amendment - I have not read it, but for what I understand - largely corresponds to the text presented by the Centre-Right in the past legislature. When I was Undersecretary, on the interceptions I presented a very similar text, because there was centralization of purchases or the possibility of supplying. Having said that, I wonder what the subject of today's confrontation is: is that what the Democratic Party did against those norms, saying that there was a will to restrict prosecutors, or is there a debate that has not been reflected in Parliament? Has there been any debate between the Democratic Party and the New Right Centre or has there been a debate that escapes us? Why are we going back to the Commission? Let us first see this amendment, let us set a deadline for submission of sub-amendments to this House. What is the need to go to the Commission? If we are to go back to the Commission, then we will look at the whole article on wiretapping. I don't understand. I didn't talk to anyone, and no one explained to me the reasons for all this: do I have to follow up, make a trial of intentions, establish that this is probably a subterfuge to put trust? I didn't get it. Mr President, do not lend yourself to this because it is an issue that has fascinated the political debate of the last parliamentary term: we have come to a clash within Parliament. Even the Democratic Party accused the center-right of wanting to limit the powers of the prosecutor with a provision like this. And what's the fight about today? We didn't even start arguing! If, in a week or ten days' time, we are discussing this amendment by the Government in this House and you are aware that there is a close debate on the matter, then you will rightly decide to refer it back to the Commission, but we must start discussing it in this House. We do not yet know whether or not there is a need for further study in the Commission; it may well not be there. If, then, you, apart from this which seems to me to be just a common sense remark, wanted, for reasons that escape, perhaps by agreements outside this House, to impose a return to the Commission, at least give us the opportunity to reason at times that are possible, which next week does not allow. Madam Minister, I want to give all possible cooperation, as I have done for every legislative measure, but next week it is absolutely not possible to examine this issue if we want to make serious amendments to the immigration decree-law and to the provision on the surname of children. Otherwise it means making fun of us and pretending to work and we can't accept that. I hope that the President, in his wisdom, will realize that this is an act of prevarication of the majority, because there has been no debate that can legitimize a return to the Commission.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-781.ana.u22	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-781.ana.u23	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-781.ana.u24	GIOVANARDI (GAL (GS, PPI, M, Id, E-E, MPL, RI)). First of all, I am obliged to remember that the last precedent of forcing the agenda to change was at the end of July, when the President decided that we should vote to send our colleague, Senator Caridi, to prison at the end of July (it is March: more than seven months have passed). Of course, our decision was made first... president. Senator Giovanardi, I must correct you: not to send you to prison, but to make the Assembly decide whether or not to send you to prison. Be precise. GIOVANARDI (GAL (GS, PPI, M, Id, E-E, MPL, RI)). The President changed the agenda for the House to decide at the end of July and the Assembly decided before the review court, in mid-August, examined the situation. So, we certainly influenced and conditioned the review court's decision. Well, the other day - as you know - the cassation cancelled with delay the order of imprisonment for Mr Caridi. We will see how this will end, but I would like to remind you that the accelerations and the forcings put this House in a very awkward situation, as happened in the face of the development of a situation that could well have been addressed at the end of August, when the review court would already have spoken. [[Applause from Senator Rizzotti]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-781.ana.u25	Look, it's the cassation, maybe... I'm sorry to interrupt you, Senator, but this is not the subject of the speech we're having.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-781.ana.u26	GIOVANARDI (GAL (GS, PPI, M, Id, E-E, MPL, RI)). President. - The debate is closed. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator Giovanardi, please be precise in your statements. GIOVANARDI (GAL (GS, PPI, M, Id, E-E, MPL, RI)). You're the President of the Senate here, not the magistrate. So, I as a senator... president. You're not a magistrate, either. And I'm sorry to interrupt. GIOVANARDI (GAL (GS, PPI, M, Id, E-E, MPL, RI)). No, I'm the senator who, in front of the news, if you want, or history denounces situations that have occurred. When historians go to see how it was possible to deprive a senator of personal freedom, through a mechanism of anticipation, they will give their judgment. These, however, are fundamental political issues of relation between the freedom of senators and the initiative of the judicial authority. Here too, we are talking about issues such as prescription or interception, on which we have discussed several times, and through which we want to impose on a citizen not to know if within five, ten or twenty years he will be considered innocent or guilty, but he will be brought to thirty or thirty or thirty-five years. We are discussing a measure that involves for a citizen accused of something at the age of thirty to reach sixty-five years without the law being able to tell him whether he is guilty or innocent. If these are not important things for the life of a country, for a sense of justice that this country must have! Then, of course, we also read and we remain disappointed that, in a case of blatant and obvious rape, in ten or twenty years one cannot complete a trial, because it remains grounded between the first degree and the appeal. Perhaps there will be the responsibility of someone who, in 20 years, cannot finish a trial! But it is not that, bringing the prescription to thirty - five years, the problem is solved. This is the content of the measure that we have for our attention. For five years I have been a Minister for relations with Parliament and it has never happened - go see the acts - to witness such forced acts. We have absolutely important measures on the agenda, as my fellow Members have said: we have to table amendments on a'marginal' issue such as immigration, which is a historic one, in order to get to this House to discuss this issue in a comprehensive and informed manner; then we have another measure for which we should have postponed the deadline for tabling amendments for a few days; and today we are told, on a presidential initiative, that an amendment by the Government is being tabled and, while it is being distributed, we must already decide to send it to the Commission in a rush and then send it back to the Chamber, because perhaps someone has made an agreement outside Parliament. I do not know then the New Right Center, which had told the House that never and never, after the increase of the penalties for the crimes concerning the public administration and which already involve immediately the prison, would have accepted, after the forcing of the prison immediately, also an eternal prescription, what agreement he made. It is evident that this is an absolutely important thing, which people only notice when it comes to them. The other day, Mr Mannino was present here. If you remember, he was arrested in 1994. I went to visit him in prison eight or nine months later and he looked like the abbot Faria; then he was acquitted, then he was put again on trial, then he was acquitted again: we are in 2017 and he is still on trial; his judicial affairs have yet to end. Twenty-five years have passed and meanwhile Ingroia has gone to do what he is doing and we read in the newspapers. If this is a system that has to go on like this, it is to be really outraged at what is read in the newspapers about certain situations. I denounce these things, and perhaps I denounce them in vain, but it is my duty to do so and, therefore, I associate myself with my colleagues in opposing the type of forcing that is taking place.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-781.ana.u27	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-781.ana.u28	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-781.ana.u29	LO MORO (Art. 1-MDP). Mr President, I take the floor to express an absolutely positive attitude, apart from the fact that you are exercising your powers, which are determined, and therefore disregards statements of favour or opposition. I would like to say very quietly to my colleagues that I find this debate inappropriate. Meanwhile, the amendment we are debating concerns not interceptions, but the rationalization of wiretapping expenditure. And I am also saying this because the subject is not unrelated to the parliamentary debate: a debate has already taken place in this Parliament on the subject, amendments have been tabled, and an amendment by myself and my colleague Mr Ricchiuti - obviously on behalf of the PD, at other times - posed the issue that is being addressed today. We cannot deal with the issue of interceptions always talking about terms and not about another theme, a nagging problem that is often overlooked: that of spending. It is said that there is an abuse of wiretapping by the magistrates, but in reality the rates are differentiated according to the judicial offices. Today, therefore, we intervene in order to homogenise and make the tariffs in the North and the South, in all judicial offices, equal. This is a topic that we welcome and the Government has done well to put it in this area. I believe that the President had no other way but to support the adoption of this amendment in the Commission. Then there are those who think that this amendment is going back to the Commission because there is already - we read it in the newspapers, but we all know it - an authorization from the Government to apply the question of trust. All right, all the more reason to go back to the Commission for this amendment. If this option were to be exercised, we would like this amendment, after the Commission's assessment, to be incorporated into the measure. Therefore, if there is confidence in this measure, we would like it to include the additional article included in amendment 38.0.500, which contains a comprehensive and comprehensive framework. This amendment, please, has been brought forward to the Groups and to many of us, and in particular it has certainly been anticipated to me, who was a signatory to a measure on this matter. Mr President, at the moment, some very misleading arguments have been added to the debate. It has been said that you exercised such power on another occasion to put a colleague in prison: you simply exercised this power and it was the House that decided to authorise that arrest; if you had not done so, the Senate would probably have been accused by politics and citizens of defending themselves and caste. Things can be read in many ways. I was convinced of your decision on that occasion and I am convinced of it now. [[Applause from the Art.1-MDP Group and Senator Zanda]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-781.ana.u30	Thank you.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-781.ana.u31	FALANGA (ALA-SCLP). Bravo! PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator Falanga, please.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-781.ana.u32	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-781.ana.u33	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-781.ana.u34	Mr Calderoli (LN-Aut). Mr President, I am not a lawyer or a magistrate, luckily for me, and therefore I am not a member of the Justice Commission. I'm taking the Senate's rules to get things in line. You, Mr President, have decided to reverse the discussion of the items on the agenda pursuant to Rule 56 (3) of the Senate Rules of Procedure. This is absolutely in its readiness to do so, and to provide, in accordance with Article 100 (11), that an article - we understand that an amendment from the Government has been tabled - is to be put aside and sent to the Commission for examination, setting the deadline for next Tuesday to report to the Assembly. I would point out to you, Mr President, that it is precisely in order to assess the appropriateness of the time limit within which the Commission must report to this House. I would remind you that the Committee on Justice and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs is examining the so-called Minniti Decree, which is not really a small measure. I believe that at the same time examining the additional article in question and the decree-law makes it difficult for the Commission to be entrusted with the task of justice. At this point, however, I wonder what is the continuation of our work. I have noted that the article we are debating is 38-a and, therefore, is added to the bottom of the measure. If this amendment to include an article were to be referred back to the Commission, it would of course be prevented from discussing all the content of the measure which has a direct link. However, this is not the case - for example - with Article 1 of the measure, which deals with the issue of repair pipes. So it is very good to refer the amendment back to the Commission. At this point, however, since we are examining the articles, I would ask you to proceed with the examination of the amendments to Article 1 and to continue until we come to some article whose examination will be precluded by a possible reference to Article 38-bis. Otherwise, someone has to propose, even if it is out of the question, a suspensive issue on which the House must speak. If this is not the case, we must continue with the examination, since Article 1 does not have any connection with Article 38-a. So, Mr President, I would ask you to continue with your examination of the measure. Then I heard in the various speeches in this House that it is written in the newspapers that the question of trust will be raised. Great. But, at some point, does the government want to be a little serious? The question of trust arises on a measure. But, if the Commission has not yet examined the amendment to introduce the additional article, has the Council of Ministers authorised confidence in what? On the title of the measure? As such, this seems to me to be a matter of dubious positivity. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-781.ana.u35	Ladies and gentlemen, if there are no other speeches, let us try to make it clear. The reversal of the discussion of the items on the agenda and the provision and referral back to the Commission were in the interest of discussion, in order to rationalise and buy time. That's the motivation. If it wasn't clear, I think it's very clear now. All this - and I say this particularly to Senator Falanga - has been done in full transparency. So all the groups, precisely because they were also mentioned at the Conference of Leaders, were informed and many senators, who are members of the Justice Commission, were also informed personally. Of course everything is sub iudice. GIOVANARDI (GAL (GS, PPI, M, Id, E-E, MPL, RI)). He's saying something that's not true! PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator Giovanardi, don't be a city guard, please. Sit down, I'm talking now, and when you intervened, I didn't interrupt. I have said that most of those who are members of the Justice Commission have been informed of this. In any event, the Conference of Leaders was informed of this and, therefore, politically all were informed of the possibility, which serves to rationalise and buy time, to give the maximum opportunity for discussion in the Commission and to submit sub-amendments. Then, when the debate on the draft law is resumed, at the afternoon sitting on Tuesday 14 March, it will be the President of the Justice Commission who will report on the work that has taken place. If then something different happens, it will be the Government that will determine what to put trust, if to put it, if to pass to the examination of the articles. At the moment, of course, because the amendment has been tabled, it is the only quick way to resolve the possibility of holding a debate, of subemberating and speeding up (and not delaying) the examination.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-781.ana.u36	The 2nd Commission is authorised to convene as early as this afternoon and, therefore, the President of the Commission is largely free to make any summons he considers necessary to comply with the deadline set on Tuesday 14 March. It seems to me that this is a reasonable time for any Commission, although we know that it has other measures under consideration, in order to be able to deal with an amendment and any sub-amendments.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-781.ana.u37	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-781.ana.u38	Senator Caliendo, you've already spoken. Now I'm talking, if you'll excuse me.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-781.ana.u39	CALIENDO (FI-PdL XVII). But so we take on the commitment to work at night until Monday.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-781.ana.u40	I am addressing the President of the Commission who has been entrusted with the presidency's task of dealing with an amendment and its sub-amendments, from here until the afternoon of Tuesday 14 March. It seems to me that these are times not so short, but rather appropriate. In any profession there is a moment of commitment where you work also on Saturdays, Sundays and Mondays. And you, Senator Caliendo, who has been a magistrate, knows very well that there are no fixed working times or possibilities of detachment: when necessary, you work. [[Senator Caliendo's comments.]] It will be the President of the Commission who will report on what you can do in the Commission. I have already decided on the provision of the amendment, and I would then turn to Senator Palma, who, once he has made the requests, does not even have the delicacy to wait for the answers and leaves the Chamber. To Senator Palma I say that this is not an amendment to the article, but an additional amendment, as Senator Calderoli said well. Therefore, it has an independent life and has been sent to the Commission without the need to refer the entire article back to it. As far as the examination of the amendment in the Commission is concerned, there will be every possibility of examining it, submitting it and working to refer it back to the House in such a way that the debate can be resumed. This is the decision that seems to me the most rational one to speed up the process and allow the maximum of democratic evaluation of the amendment presented by the Government, which, among other things - certainly I do not have to say - concerns an issue - as you yourself, Senator Caliendo, has remembered - that is and has been to the attention, that is to rationalize the tariff of telephone interceptions. That is the amendment. CALIENDO (FI-PdL XVII). All right, I'll take it. We're not going to make sub-amendments. CARDINALI (PD). Don't make all these stories all the time, Caliendo! Go to court and do the shows, not in the courtroom. CALIENDO (FI-PdL XVII). One works every day and then you have to hear that! PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator Caliendo, I understand that there may be other arguments, because these elements seem absolutely rational to me. I repeat that the Justice Commission has been authorised to convene this afternoon.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-781.ana.u41	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-781.ana.u42	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-781.ana.u43	D'ALI' (FI-PdL XVII). Mr President, I would like to clarify the order of business. The Rules of Procedure provide that anyone who can make a proposal not to move on to the examination of the articles and it seems to me that this happens in practice when the replies are over. After the rapporteur's reply, you gave the floor to the representative of the Government, but he did not speak in response. I would therefore ask you when this proposal can be put forward: on Tuesday, after this amendment has been presented, when the general debate is finally closed, can we still ask that we do not move on to the examination of the articles?
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-781.ana.u44	We are at an interim stage, so there is provision. D'ALI' (FI-PdL XVII). So we can consider the general discussion not finished, because the replies have not yet been there. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. The general discussion is over. D'ALI' (FI-PdL XVII). But normally, before we move to the Rules of Procedure, we have the right to request that we do not move to that stage. PRESIDENT. - The debate is When we resume, the matter will be addressed as soon as the President reports on the Commission's work on this amendment. D'ALI' (FI-PdL XVII). So, at the moment, is it not possible, under the Rules of Procedure, to ask for a non-version to the examination of the articles? PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Sure. It seems to me that the debate has ended. I therefore refer the following to the discussion of the draft law at another sitting.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-781.ana.u45	The next item is the continuation of the debate on draft law Nos. 2494, already approved by the Chamber of Deputies, 2241 and 2437. I would remind you that at the afternoon sitting on 7 March there was an examination of the single article of the draft law, in the text approved by the House of Deputies, and of the amendments and agendas submitted to it.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-781.ana.u46	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-781.ana.u47	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-781.ana.u48	Mr Bencini (Misto-Idv). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, this bill on combating poverty puts in place insufficient resources, as everyone has repeatedly pointed out. We are talking about 1.2 billion euros for 2017 and 1.7 billion euros for 2018. On the basis of these figures, I would like to reflect on what we could economically dispose of if we were able to stem an evil rooted in our country. In the chronicle of these days, on several fronts, the so-called clever ones have been revealed - it is to be said - because the correct definition would be "farabutti" or "ladri" and I am not just referring to those who hold political positions or have covered them in the past; I am also referring to a whole series of workers - it is a euphemism - of the public sector and of the companies involved by the State. These days in the newspapers and in the media there have been reports of convictions for regional or European reimbursements by elected persons who had no right, of false stamps for the detection of the presence at work or, again, of inflated purchases of material for health companies, with the alleged donation of bribes. I do not want to make a whole grass a bundle: the responsibilities - as is often said - are personal. In this country, however, it is unfortunately happening that the poor, the real ones, are increasingly poor and there are unemployed in increasing numbers. Then, however, in parallel, there are people who have two jobs, evidently with the power of ubiquity: they stamp on one side and go to work, strictly in black, on the other, scamming twice the State, for flawed and for escape. All this does not make our country and its honest citizens virtuous, to which I address in particular, because fortunately there are many, even if they end up in this cauldron in turn. 10:39 a.m. (Benchini followed). These attitudes help to ensure that the state's coffers are increasingly exanguised, unable to provide resources to cope with a welfare of primary need. It is therefore a priority to take serious action against illegal behaviour within the public administration as well as evasion. If we ergonomized resources, saying "no" to evasion, "no" to illicits and waste, we would have much more money to invest and redistribute. In all cases - as has already been said in general discussion - we in Italy cannot fail to vote in favour of this measure, hoping that in the near future the commitment and economic investment will meet the real needs and poverty.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-781.ana.u49	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-781.ana.u50	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-781.ana.u51	ZIZA (CoR). Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the Government, this measure finally arrives in this Chamber, which we do not judge sufficiently in relation to the real need that Italy has for poverty today. It is also an insufficient measure from the point of view of labour policies, because with the return of the 80 euros, which about one million Italian citizens are returning these days, on the one hand it is given and on the one hand it is removed. No aid can be granted and then returned. We have tabled a number of amendments in this House which, however, have not been accepted, which, from our point of view, does not make the measure organic in relation to our general draft. The bill under discussion is nothing more than yet another delegation to the Government, nothing more than the umpteenth proof that the past Government - and I hope that the current government will take the necessary distance from that way of lawmaking - has proposed laws containing delegations to exonerate Parliament's legislative function more and more. In fact, in spite of the Government's announcements, the measures against poverty launched with the latest laws of public finance seem largely insufficient to guarantee all those who today live in a condition of difficulty and do not set themselves the objective of finding structural and universal instruments to fight poverty in the medium and long term. The proposed legislation includes measures which, on the basis of the planned delegation, only remodulate existing instruments, not a more inclusive welfare, but only a shift of resources from one audience to another. There are many problems that can be highlighted: from the rather approximate identification of the selective criteria for determining who should or should not have access to State support, to the criteria establishing an extension of beneficiaries to be identified primarily among families with minor children or with serious disabilities, with established pregnant women or with persons over fifty-five years of age who are unemployed. I would like to comment on two points, calling on the Government to reflect. The first concerns the discrimination of the age of fifty-five of persons in unemployment, referred to in paragraph 2 (d) of Article 1, since the fragmentation of work introduced by the so-called jobs act has led to a dramatic increase in unemployment among young people and paradoxically, among the highest age groups, citizens over 50 and women; in fact, there is a sharp increase in unemployment in this age group and this law does not go in that direction. The second critical point is that of the use of the ISEE as a key parameter for the identification of beneficiaries. It is now clear that the new ISEE is inadequate to certify the real economic situation of the families; moreover, if one is in a state of poverty, it thinks of everything except to compile paperwork to show that it has nothing to eat. As a result of the first application, in many parts of this Parliament too, it has been pointed out several times that the new ISEE has in fact excluded millions of families from access to facilitated benefits, which, on the other hand, would need them: families which now appear to be wealthy, but which are not, in fact, families with uncomfortable situations that the ISEE is not able to detect and evaluate adequately. The Government has yet another delegation, on an important issue such as the fight against poverty, using an instrument, such as the ISEE, to which it will necessarily have to put its hand, also following the recent decisions of the Council of State, making in fact unworkable the delegation that we are preparing to vote on. For this reason, with great regret, the vote of our Group will not be in favour. [[Applause from the CoR Group and Senator Giovanardi.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-781.ana.u52	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-781.ana.u53	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-781.ana.u54	DIVINE (LN-Aut). Madam President, Minister, Madam Undersecretary, both during the general debate and in subsequent speeches we felt an excess of euphoria, together with the announcement that the instrument to combat and combat poverty has been found. Colleagues, I invite you to be careful: little or nothing is being done, in the sense that almost nothing will be resolved. Regions, municipalities and local authorities do their best to overcome local emergency situations, needs and poverty, which they may also know well. At local level the problems and their causes are known and it is also known which families are in real difficulty and which, on the other hand, are not, even if, on paper, they may seem in similar conditions. Close up you can understand the situations, while centralizing, as you intend to do the measure under consideration, you risk throwing everything into a single "warm". When you are far from problems, you are normally unable to solve them. Minister, you must explain to us: we are putting aside EUR 1 billion and it may seem an important figure. Let us, however, look at the statistical data, according to which the absolute poor - I am not referring to those in a band at risk - are about 4,400,000, out of just over 60 million Italians. If we divide the amount that has been allocated in a fair way for all the absolute poor - when we talk about absolute poor, in fact, we cannot say that one is poorer than another, but they are all in the condition of being assisted - we can deliver just under 19 euros per month for each one that, divided by 30, is 60 cents of euros per day. For those in a situation of absolute poverty, in poverty, in a dramatic family situation, I do not believe that the payment of 60 cents a day makes the difference. The League considers therefore scandalous that to an Italian who is in this situation we are able to give 60 cents a day, while for anyone who arrives in Italy - whether refugee, immigrant or illegal: the denominations do not interest us - we are able to set aside and distribute a figure equal to 35 euros a day. If we compare these two figures, we can only think that this is a mockery: what we are doing is scandalous. So let's go back to the numbers: the Conference of Regions and Autonomous Provinces, estimating the areas of intervention with leopard stain, says that would not be enough 7 billion euros. Other offices of the Regions, which have deepened these issues, argue that the billion euros that will allocate the Government plus any other 7 billion euros cited by the Conference will not be enough yet, so it will not be enough 8 billion euros to give serious answers. I trust the calculations that are made at regional level and I ask a question: where do we go to get those 8 billion and more that will serve to give an answer, if you want to give it? During the evaluation of the provision in the Chamber, the term selective universalism was deleted. To remove this term, and in particular the adjective "selective', means that there will no longer be a selection and the provision will produce a rainfall. We are talking about just under 20 euros a month, a kind of low-income citizenship that, however, we have never liked. Between the state that must think of everything and the market that must regulate everything (the two opposite political thoughts of social organization), as the North League we have always preferred the median non-statist and non-merchantist way, with a State that gives the tools and the possibility to every citizen to be himself part of the productive life of his country with his work. In Article 36 of the Constitution, which exhausts the list of rights, there is no right to have a prebenda. Article 36 of the Constitution says that there is a right to remuneration proportionate to the quantity and quality of the work done; it speaks of work, of pay and not of prebenda without any kind of counterpart. As I repeat, our vision is that poverty problems will never be solved with minimum incomes, but if anything by finding solutions to offer more jobs. We must make a call because with the same euphoria the famous 80 euros Renziani have been announced and constantly flagged. Everyone understood that they were electoral propaganda, but a certain amount was allocated to those who were in less favourable conditions than other citizens. We also criticized that operation and today we can say that we have a few more elements of judgment. First of all, the real needy have not been touched at all, because it was an operation that was going to change the tax deductions. Therefore, those who were in the worst condition, i.e. they were in the no tax area and did not pay taxes because they had one of the lowest incomes, did not even benefit from the 80 euros. The news has simplified in recent days, but about 2 million Italians - they are perhaps a little less and I have done the calculations too - have been called to return even the 80 euros. It's a mockery for a person who took that money and maybe even spent it, because those who are in those situations have no predisposition to saving. Therefore, requiring them all back of a bang could really cause people to hold something up to go and do their mini-revolution towards the State. I would like to combine this with an operation that the Left criticized, which started in 2008 with the last Berlusconi government of center-right, which introduced a social card. In that case, too, no large figures were given: it reached just under 500 euros a year; it was 80 euros bimonthly that were loaded on a social card. What was the point of that card, which was then extended and which - it seems - is moving on? The social card allows you to spend that money in food or in any case basic necessities, but also to pay services at rate, bills and anything else. This means that that money is immediately spent and returned to the circuit. Instead, when you tax an income, it could happen that a person who works puts all his savings back in a foreign country: that money will come out of Italy and will never come back; there will be no relapse. Therefore, it was doubly foolish to introduce that kind of intervention which - I repeat - on the test bench today can say that it did not work. Other colleagues have touched on the question of the indicator of the equivalent economic situation (ISEE). PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Divine Senator, I've already given you an extra minute. Begin to finish your speech. DIVINE (LN-Aut). Thank you, Madam President, and I begin to conclude. We are very opposed to that system because we consider ourselves to be the first house, which must instead be favored: every Italian or worker must be encouraged (with savings, loans, etc.) to become independent of public aid, public housing and anything else, and not penalized. If the citizen has "hanged" to raise a mortgage, committing everything he could, he cannot consider the first house as such a heritage that does not allow him to no longer be helped in a time of difficulty. That is also a very critical issue. In conclusion, the country is impoverished and at this point the initiative and the involvement of people are discouraged; the problem is not solved because the 80 euros are an inezia and for the most part will be to be returned; above all, they centralize and cancel those few forms of local assistance that, on the test bench, still work today. Therefore, we can only be against this measure. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-781.ana.u55	We greet the students and teachers of the Istituto professionale per i servizi socio-sanitaria - Marie Curie - Garda, in the province of Verona. Welcome to the Senate. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-781.ana.u56	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-781.ana.u57	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-781.ana.u58	WAR (Art. 1-MDP). Madam President, Minister, I think it is important to start with three initial considerations. Whatever indicator is used to analyze it - whether it refers to absolute or relative poverty or serious material deprivation - poverty in Italy appears to be high compared to the European average and, above all, constantly growing. In the face of this alarming situation, ours is the only country in Europe of 15 that has not yet equipped itself with a national and universal measure to combat poverty. The only other country was Greece until recently which, however, is introducing it. Thirdly, the national measures, which have been activated over time, largely insufficient in relation to the need, are of a category nature: they give support, that is, only to certain types of subjects, such as the social allowance for the poor elderly or the cheque to poor families with at least three children. In this context, the Article 1 Group - Democratic and Progressive Movement welcomes the approval of the draft delegation, which constitutes an important step forward in the path towards the implementation of the programme to combat poverty that is still lacking. The positive aspects - in our view - are as follows. First of all, it sets up a national programme for the first time. This is in line with a fundamental principle of fairness, namely equal treatment of people living in different parts of the country - not by chance, we are talking about an essential level of performance - but also about an equally fundamental principle of efficiency, namely avoiding geographical mobility to areas where greater protection is guaranteed by decentralised bodies. Positive is also the fact that the new inclusion income will also be addressed to legally resident immigrants, provided that they have a minimum residence requirement. Positive is that the income of inclusion is not only an economic subsidy, but also has the ambition to be a social and work integration program. We believe it is important that the family that benefits from the monetary transfer should have the opportunity to conclude a pact of integration with the social services of the local authorities, including by undertaking to respect it. This is a pact that also engages the other party at stake. Social services, for their part, are committed to promoting with accompanying services the process of inclusion and social activation of all members of the core. And they also undertake to act on the network, activating, for their respective competences, the actors operating on the territory: the employment centres, called to promote participation in the labour market by adults, also through training experiences and professional retraining; schools and the health system, in order to ensure the fulfilment by children of the school obligation and compliance with the protocols of pediatric health visits. Such an approach is what distinguishes this from other measures. It is not an income conditional solely on activation at work and is therefore potentially aimed at people who cannot be activated at work, because they are engaged - for example - in care activities, or because they are elderly or ill. Such measures require patient construction, which increases the skills of decentralised administrations and raises the awareness of citizens, so that they can then walk on a truly solid basis. For this reason it is good that the proposed measure can and wants to exploit, to improve it further, the experience of the experimentation started since 2013 in 12 cities with more than 250,000 inhabitants. It is important not to go back, as the Berlusconi Government did, after the experimentation of the minimum income of insertion promoted by the central-left governments at the end of the last century, assuming an income of last resort, inspired by principles quite different from those of active inclusion, which the center-right then has been well guarded from realizing. Finally, it is good that the strengthening of the inclusion services that must accompany the monetary transfer, enhanced in the regional programming of services, is supported by the national share of the European Social Fund intended for the objective of social inclusion. The measure that is introduced today does not, however, still meet a requirement for us: it is not a universal measure that allows all those who are in poverty, whether or not they belong to a particular category, sufficient resources to be able to afford that basket of goods and services that can guarantee a decent life. I would remind you that when we talk about absolute poverty, we are talking not only about food and clothing, but also about home, education, health, housing, social participation, etc. A measure of this kind - we know - would require 7-8 billion. The resources allocated are, therefore, insufficient. It is not enough to say that they are more than they have ever been in the past, which is true. It must be said, but it is not enough. It is also necessary to undertake immediately to strengthen the measure in order to enable it to respond to an increasingly widespread need. It is necessary to give the regime of this programme a priority in the field of action on the agenda and to define certain times for the steps that are still necessary in order to really equip our system with a support network of last resort, that does not leave in desperation any individual and no family who are in serious economic difficulty. This is the request that, in announcing our positive vote on the measure, we feel to forcefully place the Government: a real commitment. The poverty levels in our country tell us that we can no longer afford to wait. [[Applause from the Art.1-MDP Group and the Senators Bencini and Favero.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-781.ana.u59	I am pleased to address, on behalf of the Assembly, a greeting to the representation of the citizens of the Municipality of Tolentino, present in the gallery, a city recently hit - as we have unfortunately read in our chronicles - by the earthquake of Central Italy that has put its inhabitants to the test. [[Applause]] We have done what we have to do in this House, and we have approved the measures to deal with the emergency. So let's hope that, as soon as possible, there can be a strong and real signal to you and start reconstruction actions. Welcome to the Senate and thank you for your visit. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-781.ana.u60	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-781.ana.u61	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-781.ana.u62	Mr Barani (ALA-SCLP). Ladies and gentlemen, perhaps for the first time since the end of the post-war period, the social situation in the country has undergone a regression of this magnitude. The previous crises, which have punctuated the history of our country, have also marked moments of retreat. In the 1970s - for example - there had long been discussions about the two-thirds society - I do not know if you remember, Minister - indicating by this expression the world of the excluded, apart from the classic contrast between capital and labour. Not by chance, in the Assembly of Rimini called by the then PSI - of which I still carry the flagship with pride - had focused the merits-needs binomial, in order to fight the new and the old poverty, where, precisely, the concept of new poverty tried to give a face to all those who did not even have a hope to place in the class struggle as a main instrument of social emancipation. Today we are even worse. The social elevator has long been blocked, especially to the detriment of the younger ones. Not only did hope fail, but also the desire to continue to engage in the search for a possible individual response. It is the mass of the so-called discouraged, Minister, of those who do not have a job and do not even look for it and abandon themselves to naivety. If you look at the statistical data, you have the impression of being in front of a confused spot, formed by those who have pulled the oars in the boat, but who then re-produce on the market only when the smallest signal of recovery brings back a pinch of hope. That stain, then, first increases in volume and then deflates. But, in the meantime, many people are throwing in the towel to take refuge abroad, in the belief that now ours, from their point of view, is a lost country. I believe that we should take charge of these problems and not just spend a few minutes of our time in a parliamentary debate that is always occasional and perhaps colored only by delegation. On the contrary, this concern should be a sort of polar star that guides us in our daily activity. The social data of the Italian crisis are alarmed, Minister. We are witnessing a sharp fall in per capita income, which is second only to Greece. To give just one idea, Irish per capita income is now almost twice that of Italy. And Ireland is a country that has suffered dramatic blows for its banking crisis, to whose solution Italy itself has contributed, offering the necessary resources. It is, of course, a much smaller economy and therefore easier to manage, but the example is nevertheless significant: it shows that only by implementing the necessary reforms, with the continuity that they require, can we cope with the financial impact that has characterized all the most advanced countries. The fall in income per capita in Italy, according to data provided by the Bank of Italy, on family budgets, resulted in a strong compression of the social pyramid. Its summit has fallen, with significant losses also for the upper class - the most wealthy - and its base has expanded, extending the area of poverty both absolute and relative. In short, as in the sinking of the Titanic, no one was saved: neither the lords of the bridge of command, nor those who slept in the holds. The result is a general feeling of protest, which is expressed in the growth of consents that characterize populist movements, the movements of comedians, the movements of those who have as dominant idea the "so much worse, so much better." At the same time, that feeling of generosity, which has always characterized our people, has given way to growing intolerance. Just look at what's going on about immigrants. Addressing problems of this scale is therefore not easy. The measure before us, from this point of view, moves from a traditional perspective: it allocates resources to try to contain the most serious phenomena. It does so, however, passively: money to the most deprived, when instead an active policy would be needed, that is to use public funding as a lever to change subjective behaviors marked, too often, by individual renunciation; the first step leading to that poverty trap from which, then, it is difficult to get out. We are therefore not opposed to the intervention itself. How could it be otherwise? We do, however, take the limits of approach, both in the short and in the long term. This is a government that is not prone to reform and must have more courage. From this point of view it is easy to say that it is not with the assistance, no matter how sophisticated the mechanisms of supply of resources, that solves such complex problems. Social shock absorbers serve if their use is limited over time. As in cars, they cushion the blows of a disused road surface, but this happens only if the car walks: if it stays still, the same shock absorbers become a useless piece of iron and plastic. The same goes for the social sector: state intervention is necessary to overcome the crisis, but then it is the economic system that must start again, thanks to the necessary reforms and the hope of a more serene international horizon. I am always calling on you, Minister, to age health, to give confidence to young people who can enter the world of work, to age school and the world of teachers when they are over sixty-five years old; if we block classes for two or three generations and make sure that entry into the world of work takes place at forty years, it means that the State has failed. We invite you to this invitation, but we are faced with deaf people. That is why I said that we must deal with the fight against poverty continuously and do so not only today, but when we discuss the law of stability or the banking crisis, because the solution of those problems, which are upstream, then depends on the perimeter of social well-being or malaise. From this point of view, the years behind us are not to be regretted. In fact, there is no continuity in government action and the main faults - I regret to say - fall on the relative majority party that does not have a reformist DNA within it and has failed to find, as the most recent facts have shown, the necessary programmatic cohesion. For too long they have co-inhabited different cultures, even opposing cultures, which have curbed the necessary reform process and prevented wider majorities from forming in Parliament, which can ensure greater cultural cohesion, even before political cohesion. There's a fact that should make you think. There are two major exceptions to the European crisis: Germany and the United Kingdom. In those countries the rate of development has been higher than in the other countries and the phenomenon of social exclusion is much lower. They are countries that have given continuity to the reform action: Margaret Thatcher marked an era, but her reforms were not then dismantled and contradicted by the action of Tony Blair or Gordon Brown, when the electorate decided that it was necessary to switch from conservatives to Labour. The same happened in Germany with the interventions of Gerard Schröder on the labour market, the dowry that Angela Merkel found herself inherited and that she was well guarded from dissipating. It is the exact opposite of what happened in Italy throughout the course of the so-called second Republic - I remind you, Minister, that in 1984 Italy was the fifth economic power in the world and had also surpassed the United Kingdom - with a right and a left always ready to start over, after destroying what had been previously achieved. As long as this perverse attitude does not change, we will continue to talk about poverty and marginalization, and we will do so - as we have done today - but we are aware that we are discussing an issue to which we are unable to give the solutions that would be necessary. That is why, given that a little is better than nothing, we cannot fail to vote in favour of this measure. I therefore welcome the Group's vote on this glass of water which is given to thirsty people. [[Applause from Senator Langella. Congratulations to Senator Eva Longo.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-781.ana.u63	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-781.ana.u64	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-781.ana.u65	PAGE (AP (Ncd-CpE)). Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, representatives of the Government, the data on poverty, despite the documentation that comes to us, are difficult to consider as exhaustive to the full, because they deal with a largely submerged phenomenon. Italy, in fact, is the only country in Europe, together with Greece, to be deprived of a universalistic national measure against absolute poverty that, in recent years, coinciding largely with those of the economic crisis, has increased to explode. In the report on poverty in Italy, Istat has once again highlighted the dramatic situation in which millions of Italian families live: more than 4.1 million Italians live in absolute poverty; of these, more than a million are minors. A similar photograph is provided by the European Statistical Institute (Eurostat), which calculates the incidence of individuals in serious material deprivation, i.e. unable to purchase goods considered necessary for a dignified life, such as a phone or protein meal at least once every two days. Italy is the European country in which, during the crisis, this index has grown most among the countries of the euro area (+ 65.7% from 2007 to 2014): 7.1 million individuals are in condition of serious material deprivation, about 11.6 percent of the resident population. Of these, more than 1.4 million are under eighteen years of age. These figures underline the existence in Italy of a social problem that we believed solved, and instead it is as important as little present in the public debate: absolute poverty, which also suffers a very large number of children and girls. In order to effectively combat the risk of poverty and social exclusion, other European countries - with the exception of Greece - have long introduced guaranteed minimum income schemes. Italy, in the last twenty years, has made some timid step in this direction, but followed by rapid marches back. Thus, the trial started in 1998 of the minimum income for inclusion has not been extended to the entire national territory, and some experiments carried out at regional level - in Campania, Friuli-Venezia Giulia, Lazio and Sardinia - have been interrupted after the first stages of application. Today, some Italian regions are again moving on the theme of minimum income and the fight against poverty. However, this happens in scattered order and with the risk of weak coordination with the national level, which instead is engaged in the enlargement of active inclusion support to the entire national territory. The analysis of these experiences would show how one could move along two directions of action: on the one hand, considering how many people, in their singularity and individuality, are truly on the threshold of absolute poverty, and, on the other hand, considering how many and what families are involved. In fact, there is no doubt that there can be greater solidarity and greater opportunities for mutual care in the family. It is precisely when we think of the poverty of households that we must remember the role that families have played in recent years: they have really been the most important factor of social cohesion, but also the most effective system of social cushioning. We know how the younger families have been able to survive the difficulties we have experienced in recent years thanks to the contribution of the pension of the grandparents, thanks to the contribution of the house and those immediate resources that were made available to them. In any case, I would like to point out that, if in the past the question of poverty (and in particular the implementation of minimum income) has never been a political priority, in recent years it has been the subject of increasing attention; reflection that has led to the law of stability for 2016 which, with paragraphs 386 to 390, has marked a change of pace in the field of the fight against poverty and social exclusion. In particular, this regulatory intervention has provided for structural funding - thus standing among public finance interventions - for this sector and the adoption of one or more legislative measures aimed at unifying existing performances and defining a single measure to combat poverty. The law of stability seems, then, to have closed the trial season and opened the possibility that Italy finally gives itself a structural measure of income support aimed at the poor. In summary, it is necessary to remember that the set of interventions provided for by the law of stability for 2016 and by this bill of delegation has undoubtedly marked a change of pace in an area, such as the fight against poverty, which has traditionally struggled to enter the political agenda and in which the policy instruments are weak. For the first time, structural funding has been provided for this sector and we are facing an attempt to introduce a universal measure to combat poverty. In addition, the delegation intervenes on governance by outlining a multi-level and multi-stakeholder system and promoting cooperation between different institutions and between local authorities. Despite the importance of these elements, it remains to be understood whether the delineated shift will actually find room for full realization. Two points are particularly significant: the first concerns the resources front. These must not only be confirmed but also extended, if we want to create a plan to combat poverty that will allow, in the coming years, to reach out to all the poor and to achieve, therefore, a truly universalistic measure. The second point concerns services and, more generally, the capacity of local authorities to ensure that users are taken care of. From this point of view, it is desirable that support for local authorities should be further strengthened. Another reflection that seems interesting, when we stop to talk about absolute poverty, is the one that concerns the condition of the so-called homeless: they are people with complex and difficult stories and past, often aggravated by marginalization and social isolation. Although it is difficult to reconstruct the number quantitatively, we know that this is an expanding phenomenon, which concerns not only foreign citizens, but also an increasing number of Italians. They are people who certainly make more news in winter, when the cold is sometimes able to cause their death, people to whom we cannot reach, because there is no structure able to take charge of them, people assisted almost exclusively by the subjects of associationism, even Catholic, and the third sector. At this time, the exclusion parameters refer not to social exclusion, but to exclusion from the measures that will be implemented. This bill, insofar as it deals with the phase of monitoring and concrete evaluation of needs, through the reorganization of measures, also takes into account the risk that among the poor there may be a tendency to moral hazard, a mentality that leads to take advantage of all possible situations, considering its condition as the most disadvantaged and penalized and, therefore, claiming an absolute right to receive support and aid, but, by necessity, they are resources to be calibrated and distributed according to a graduation of different situations. At the same time, we must focus on a close correlation between the provision of a subsidy and the conditions of activation and active support of the individual. In other words - as has already been mentioned during the general debate - we must put in place all the most effective instruments to avoid the trap of poverty and inactivity. We need to achieve that conditionality that wants the link between the benefit and actions aimed at including people, subtracting them from a condition of degradation and leading them to a recovery of active life. In addition, we need to reflect on the complexity of the phenomenon of poverty, typing out the different conditions. For example, a couple of elderly people, although they may be property owners, may find themselves in serious difficulty, due to too low pensions to cope with the costs of everyday life or home care. These fundamental assessments can only be carried out by enhancing the concept of proximity. As the rapporteur and President Sacconi have pointed out, we can actually determine what is the condition of absolute poverty and degradation only if we are able to go deep and fall into the reality of every single case. With equal income, conditions of inclusion or exclusion can be established: for example, the presence or not of a solid Community family environment and a network of neighbourhood relationships, which must be regarded as a parameter of dignity at least equal to that which is purely redditional. We will ensure that this approach, which encourages the widespread capacity in the territories to prevent and combat poverty, can be implemented in the implementation of the delegations. In conclusion, we are faced with a measure that marks the beginning of a different approach, compatible with the resources currently available. This is certainly a measure to be developed from the regulatory point of view and the financial basis, but it is finally going in the right direction. Choices have been made to establish the guiding criteria for the drafting of delegated decrees: decisions that are as delicate and in some respects divisive, but always inspired by the objective of beginning with the weakest and according to a national and structural perspective, so that no citizen in difficulty should be excluded or feel abandoned by his own State. For these reasons, I am voting in favour of the People's Area Group. [[Applause from the AP Group (Ncd-CpE) and Senator Favero.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-781.ana.u66	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-781.ana.u67	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-781.ana.u68	BAROZZINO (Misto-SI-SEL). Madam President, I would have expected, at least on such an important subject as the one addressed in this delegation - we are talking about poverty - a genuine and frank debate, because this is something that everyone should care about, but I see that this is not the case once again. And the excuses that are used by the majority - "there is no more time" - "we are the ones we want to give, the others instead want to put only the flag" - I think you could also save yourself. In order for everything to remain in the record - now we have to do this - we remember what happened. In the years 2011 and 2012 Italian Left (then SEL) collected the signatures - the undersigned did so as a worker - to promote the bill on guaranteed minimum income, presented more than three years ago in Parliament. The majority never wanted to discuss it, despite the numerous insistence on incardinating it. Senator Parente, I turn to you, who is the rapporteur. From the first moment - and I am not sure, but I know you can't - the Italian Left and, therefore, the undersigned said in the Committee on Employment, Social Security that, as poverty is a very important issue, we would be willing to put aside our bill provided that we spoke seriously about the subject and gave concrete answers to the approximately 1.6 million Italian families who are in absolute poverty conditions, for a total of almost 5 million people. Those who did not want to talk about this issue were, once again, the majority. Senator Parente, in your report of truth there is only the fact that we audit so many associations. However, audience means listening, while we - indeed, you and especially the majority - clearly do not listen. During the various hearings the President of INPS told us that poverty is not only not fought by this government, which does not do a real fight, but is even increasing. The representatives of so many associations have told us that the resources are totally insufficient. Moreover - and this is told not by the opposition, but by the auditors we have heard, many of whom are close to the majority - it has been argued that, to give a real breath of oxygen to families in difficulty, we need at least EUR 6-7 billion, as we are talking about an unprecedented social disaster in Italy. This is said by everyone. I'd like to move on to practical things and ask a question. About one billion euros is allocated to the delegation of poverty. Let me give you an example. People who used a job exchange the previous year or who, thanks to your jobs act (the themes are in fact parallel), find themselves without social shock absorbers, and are on the threshold of sixty years and, if all goes well, have benefited from an annual income of 6,000 euros, will they be able to access the benefits provided by the delegation? No, they won't. Once again, you foment a struggle among the poor. This is a very depressing thing and I do not know if it is clear to you - I really hope so - what is happening in Italy. I'll give you some data. When in 2011 SEL collected signatures to promote the presentation of the bill on guaranteed minimum income, it was already two, three years of crisis. Minister Poletti, in 2008 unemployment in Italy stood at around 8%, while today it is 12%, but only because you gave ISTAT inputs under which a worker who receives a voucher in a given week is busy. This means that real unemployment is higher. In 2011, youth unemployment stood at 29 percent, while today about one in two youngsters find no work. We're talking about an unprecedented social disaster. What are you doing? The report says that there are no resources, but that is an excuse. If this majority and the government want to find them, there's money. I want to remind you that you have used EUR 20 billion for the jobs act. Speaking of which, Minister Poletti, I take advantage of your presence to ask if you know that a worker who had a liver transplant was fired yesterday. Thanks to your jobs act, the company can fire him. Do you know that? That's what you're producing. Mr Poletti, Minister for Labour and Social Policy. No. BAROZZINO (Misto-SI-SEL). No? Then, since you are the Minister of Labour, take a stand on this. [[Applause from the Mixed-SI-SEL and M5S Groups and Senator De Pin.]] These are the figures, they can be compared and each of us can make his own assessments; I would like to deny that, Minister, and if so, I will apologise, but that is what happened. For this delegation, allocate a billion. I have already given some examples of what this will mean: if everything goes well, you will respond to the needs of families of three or four people with 400 euros a month - we are talking about this - and this measure will cover one third of families in absolute poverty. So, I'd like you to tell me very simply those other two-thirds what they're gonna do, because I didn't get it. Do you want to start a struggle among the poor? The bureaucratic tricks will decide who is poorer and who is entitled to a plate of pasta and who is not? I consider this to be a very depressing thing, which I do not think is equal to the world. It is because we must not think of putting flags, a guaranteed minimum income that has a decent form of this nature, Minister Poletti, would be of considerable importance for all Italy, but above all for the South. The Svimez data, which I hope you accept, tell us that in a few years (ten years now) 4.2 million people in the South will be forced to leave their lands in search not of luck - it would be a mirage - but of underpaid, undignified and precarious work. A guaranteed minimum income that has a decency would allow these lands not to be depopulated and, therefore, not to be left to degradation and this money - it was also said by someone before me and it is one of the few true statements that I have heard - would be immediately put into circulation, and paradoxically would also help the economy. They are resources that, remaining in the territories, would help the economy of all Italy as it would not happen if they were given to those powerful people who in fact pay taxes also abroad. What are we talking about? I consider this really a class struggle backwards. We have always said that we were ready to discuss a delegation like this, because we were talking about the dignity of people, but you once again - I say this with regret, because I really wanted an inclusive delegation - do not give dignity to people, but give them some poor charity and trigger a struggle among the poor, to whom we have always been opposed. We will vote against this delegation because we are for the dignity of people and dignity, if this is the Government of a democratic country like Italy and according to our Constitution, we would have wanted precisely this: to restore dignity to our citizens, who deserve it because they are not in certain conditions for their own fault, but for the bad choices of this Government and the previous ones. [[Applause from the Misso-SI-SEL Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-781.ana.u69	On behalf of the Assembly I greet the teachers and students of the Istituto comprensivo "64° quartiere Rodari-Moscati" in Naples, who are attending our work. Welcome. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-781.ana.u70	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-781.ana.u71	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-781.ana.u72	CATALFO (M5S). Madam President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, after listening very carefully to you, I must tell you that this has seemed to me the waltz of hypocrisy. It seems to me the waltz of the hypocritical words, with which we speak theoretically of the poor, which instead are a reality in Italy and, while they fight every day to overcome the economic and social difficulties they encounter, they must hear words, words and still words that do not correspond to any real fact that can really change their lives. The facts are that this House, in the last three or four years, has not wanted to face poverty in Italy in any way. There are the vows of all who testify and it has remained written in history: he did not want to do it. In recent months we have had the opportunity to study and deepen the bill on poverty that is being debated by this House today. I must say with great regret, Minister, that this is yet another missed opportunity to resolve the problem of poverty in our country. With this measure you will create again poor of series A and poor of the B series: this happened because you prevented any kind of constructive debate on the subject, denying the possibility of making the slightest improvement to the text of the draft delegation law under consideration. The government delegates itself to issue a decree: Mr. Minister, do you want to tell us that this is democracy? In three years you have prevented the House from considering a measure such as that on citizenship income, which would give dignity to Italian citizens, in order to make a micro mouse that should fight poverty, but do not grant Parliament the priority, the possibility, the opportunity or the right to do so, because this is the right: Parliament legislates, not the Government. [[Applause.]] NUGNES (M5S). Bravo! CATALFO (M5S). But that is not all: the citizens who will be able to take advantage of this bonus - we cannot talk about real income support, but about the usual bonus - will continue to remain poor, while the poor citizens who have been excluded from it will continue to have no help, abandoned once again by a hypocritical state, who pretends to think of poverty in Italy. With this measure we will continue to deny any protection - for example - to young people or pensioners, just as you are waiting to conclude this legislature in order to have the right to vitality (what you call "pension" is nothing more than a masked vitality, and you know it well); to poverty in Italy, however, we can devote nothing. Yet, Minister, the data on poverty, unemployment and the lack of opportunity in our country are before everyone's eyes. The situation is critical, to use a nice word: youth unemployment has exceeded 40% and in some regions of the South it even breaks the 60% ceiling. Come to the South, Minister. Let's take a tour together and I will show you what happens to young people in those areas: every year 100,000 people leave our country, one third of whom are young, those young people to whom you have dedicated unhappy words. More than one and a half million pensioners receive a pension of less than EUR 500. In recent years 400,000 pensioners have abandoned our country to go abroad and seek a dignified life. Poverty has exploded, reaching 2005 levels; 17 and a half million people are at risk of poverty or social exclusion, 28% of the population, not to forget the 11 million citizens, Minister, who no longer manage to access medical care due to lack of resources. We are among the countries with the highest child poverty rate; 17% of the child population, equal to 1,700,000 children living below the poverty line. Here we are making a measure "topolino" that will not help all Italian families and all Italian minors. Explain to me: which child has a right and which child has no right? Let's discuss it here. What is the child who has a right and what is the child who has no right? How about SIA? If you have a minor child who is two years old, you have a right; if your child is three and a half years old, I am sorry, but you no longer have a right. You're starving. It was hard, but you did. You made a law that was meant to help the weakest, forgetting the weakest, showing a shameful and total lack of interest in solving the problem. What do you do anyway? What did you do? You have also eliminated and cut 211 million from the Social Policy Fund, which is, however, income support funds that the municipalities should provide and 50 million from the Non-self-sufficiency Fund. Tell me what the game is? Let's get out of here, put something in there, then reorder the performance, connect to the ISEE and everything changes so that nothing changes and we have not solved the problem of poverty in Italy. Minister, if I were you, I'd be ashamed. It is clear to everyone that on this occasion what is lacking is the political will, and this is evident above all from the very few economic resources that are intended to finance this measure. We are talking about a little more than EUR 1 billion in the face, at least, of EUR 7 billion in order to combat absolute poverty, of EUR 15 billion that would be necessary to counter the situation of all the people who currently live at risk of poverty in Italy. So we are talking only about about 8% of what should be allocated; absolutely insufficient resources. However, you have been deaf, in the haste to get this measure to the House, where it has remained because it is also here, there is the general debate, then we interrupt, there are the amendments, then we interrupt again, we have to listen to your needs because we do not have to bring certain measures to the Chamber, and then we interrupt again and we have the debate; now, well, right, what do you do? Just because you were in a hurry, you declared all the 5 Star Movement's amendments inadmissible. In this House, during my reply as a minority rapporteur - I wanted to deposit it, because we clearly have a clear and serious idea to combat poverty in Italy - I asked the Budget Commission why they had declared that amendment 1.57 was inadmissible. This amendment, which would have allocated 2 billion more to the Social Exclusion Fund, has been declared inadmissible. It was an amendment, Minister, which reduced the percentage of deductibility of interest payable to banks and insurance companies (in short, the government's friends). We had quantified this amendment in 2 billion, but by the Ministry of Finance's report it was even quantified in 2,183,000,000, 2,830,000,000 for 2018 and 2,838,000,000 for 2019. So, deliberately in this House they did not want to spend 2 and almost 3 billion more on poverty in Italy. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] And we're still talking about poverty. Briciole, then. Yet our country is the taillight for welfare compared to other European countries, and you, Madam President, allow me at least to finish my speech, since the income of citizenship does not schedule it. You, Minister, go to Europe and do what? Talking about the European pillar of social rights in January. Well, Minister, I have already pointed out that in the annex of the Commission to the pillar of social rights... PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator Catalfo, I remind you that I've already given you an extra minute. I therefore call on you to come to an end. CATALFO (M5S). I shall conclude, Madam President. So, Minister, in point 15 of the annex, we talk about minimum income, pointing out that the countries that provide it cannot remove the beneficiaries of the measure from poverty. All these characteristics, highlighted in the annex to the social rights pillar, will ensure that the measure will not go into effect as it should and, therefore, will not be able to combat poverty in Italy. If I have to finish my speech, I would ask that I be able to deliver the full text of my speech, so that it can be annexed to the report. However, I remember, Minister, that there is also something in the technical report. What we want, Minister, is for the issue of poverty to be addressed in Italy in the correct way. There are 9 million poor people waiting for a serious measure, which is the income of citizenship. The income of citizenship, in fact, is a measure of contrast to poverty, for the insertion of work, in connection also with social services, that allows the updating of the citizen, that restores dignity and allows the families to have a dignified life and to build a real project of life. This is how we really deal with the poverty of Italian families, Minister: everything else is nothing. Our vote will therefore be abstaining. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] . Congratulations). PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator Catalfo, the Presidency authorizes you to deliver the full text of your speech.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-781.ana.u73	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-781.ana.u74	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-781.ana.u75	BERTACCO (FI-PdL XVII). Madam President, Minister, Mrs Undersecretary, ladies and gentlemen, this is a measure which we all looked forward to and perhaps, naively, we hoped to be able to contribute to its drafting. Unfortunately, the Gentiloni Government acts in continuity with the previous one, resetting our work in the relevant Commissions and rejecting all the amendments tabled. The Gentiloni-Renzi Government and the majority party have emphasized, in recent days, the introduction in Italy of a measure against poverty. It is the income of inclusion which, according to the intentions of the majority, should be the decisive measure to address this social condition. The resources made available to respond to the economic difficulties of millions of people, who are poor or at risk of poverty, are €600 million for the first year and €1 billion for the second year (2017). These figures are ridiculous and I do not understand how they can be hailed as a measure against poverty. There have been a number of loans for banks and to protect those responsible for the disasters that have occurred on the shoulders of thousands of savers: this comparison makes it possible to clearly determine where the government's greatest attention is actually being paid. Therefore, the umpteenth law of delegation is proposed: it is a broad delegation, a blank bill of exchange that, in order to be implemented, requires the adoption, within six months, of numerous legislative decrees for: the introduction of a national measure to combat poverty, understood as being impossible to have all the goods and services necessary to lead a decent standard of living, and social exclusion (this measure, called income of inclusion, is identified as an essential level of benefits to be guaranteed uniformly throughout the national territory); the reorganization of the benefits of a welfare nature, aimed at the fight against poverty, except for the benefits addressed to the elderly population, no longer of working age, for the benefits in support of parenthood and for those related to the condition of disability and disability of the beneficiary; the strengthening of the coordination of social services interventions, in order to guarantee throughout the national territory the essential levels of benefits, within the principles of law 8 November 2000, n. 328. Luckily, the attempt to lay hands on social pensions and survivors has been blocked in the bud, but - as mentioned earlier - this is a Government of Robin Hood on the contrary: it takes away the poor to give to bankers. Drafting legislative decrees is certainly not an easy task, but I hope that it can be dealt with by the Government with due attention, perhaps drawing from the many propositive interventions of the oppositions expressed in these days in the Commission, as in the Assembly. Unfortunately, however, given the acceleration given to the measure in recent weeks, I fear that legislative decrees will come out very similar to campaign slides. Since the beginning of the crisis, people in absolute poverty in Italy have increased by 155%: in 2007 there were 1.8 million, while today there are 4.6 million. Behind the numbers are the faces and stories of hundreds of thousands of families; to these people we are not able to give an overall answer. They are people who have lost their jobs or have fallen into discomfort because of problems related to ludopathy, drugs, alcohol or simply because they have faced a separation that is not consensual; they are men and women who struggle every day to regain their dignity. A State worthy of this name should take care of these Italians, complying with what our Constitution states in Article 3. For us, the aim is to provide concrete answers to poverty, not through welfare, but through the creation of real job opportunities that can contribute to the development and growth of our country. The delegation law does not allocate additional resources to support the measures indicated, in addition to those already provided for in the Stability Act. Any additional resources will have to be found by the competent administrations (so, Ministry of Labour and local authorities) through a different allocation of ordinary human, financial and instrumental resources, to the state of endowment to the same administrations. It is reported a few days ago that more than 22.3 percent of tax revenue comes from the boom of games collections. In fact, it is EUR 2.5 billion more. Could they not be made available to this bill? On the other hand, once again, local authorities are being asked for efforts after a season of cuts that has no equal in the history of the Republic. What can I say? This is a left that has abandoned the unions, the teachers, the workers, the disabled who have put in great difficulty with the reform of the ISEE. The measure today in approval provides multidisciplinary teams that will have to evaluate application by application, person per person the audience of the applicants of the benefits granted by this law. I make an estimate: in ten years there will still be users waiting for evaluation. Was it not better to use the social services of the municipalities perhaps transferring dedicated resources to this purpose? Furthermore, who will be monitoring the beneficiary persons? Do you really think that those who live the problem of ludopathy, drug addiction, alcoholism will go looking for a job and that the contribution they will receive will spend it for noble reasons? Attention, I would like to avoid any possible doubt: we are not opposed to the establishment of income support policies, but we would have liked to confront each other with something concrete. Senator Parente, we would have appreciated a majority able to discuss, to confront ourselves, perhaps giving us the opportunity to actively contribute to the drafting of the bill. Poverty is a problem for all. It hits cross-cuttingly. There are no preconstituted truths and, much less, holders of the truth. Dear colleagues in the majority, make it clear: no one has absolute truth, much less you. The blank bills almost no longer sign them; only blackmailers, blackmailers and fools remain to do so. You will always find us ready when you have humility, but above all the courage to confront you on ideas and not on sadly white sheets. Do not continue to say that this is a historical measure because in history it will enter us for having again mocked the Italians. I conclude with a thought that I hope will open hearts and minds, a thought that I hope will help to reflect on the task that we are here to carry out. Care is a creative act; it is a gesture that changes the existing creating beauty. It is a revolutionary act that changes the gray flow of things with the colors of attention, listening and love. It is, like art, unique, unrepeatable, engraved in history and space; and, like art, it is a fully human need. By declaring the Group of Forza Italia's vote against, let me say that a prerequisite for defining a civil society is the ability to take care of its people. [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-781.ana.u76	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-781.ana.u77	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-781.ana.u78	LEPRI (PD). Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, today is a historic day: we are about to finally approve, for the first time in our country, a national measure, progressively universal, of combating poverty, that is, income of inclusion. It is a historic day because it has been expected for a long time: from experiments, motions, proposals of the vast world of associationism, from appropriations, to a law that includes a measure and a national plan. So let us mark a point of no return for Parliament. It is a historic day because we will be able to give a system response, no longer parcelled or limited, to the many concrete situations of growing poverty in our country. It was this Parliament's duty to intervene, and perhaps - I am right to some colleagues - we could have been faster. However, we have not been firm in recent years. The 2016 Stability Act had allocated 1 billion, while the 2017 Budget Law has put 1.6 billion in the field, which comes to 2 billion if we add the funds for the purchase of food and European ones for the strengthening of social services. Beyond the right emphasis, we must first of all remember that we are not starting from scratch, we are not in the year zero; it is not acceptable the thesis, repeated also in this debate, so so far in Italy we have done too little in the fight against poverty. Although not always fairly and with different contradictions, the Italian protection system intervenes, and not for a short time, in favour of the elderly through social benefits, integration to the minimum and fourteenth; in favour of persons with disabilities or not self-sufficient, so that they can not only benefit from a compensation measure, but also counter the risk of falling into poverty or abandonment; in favour of families with dependent children, especially with family allowances and deductions for dependent children; in favour of those who have lost their jobs, with the so-called passive policies of work, reviewed in an innovative way during this legislature. If we add these four strands of social spending, we get more than EUR 60 billion a year. Of course, they are not all spent on the poor; of course, much of this expenditure is covered by workers themselves and businesses. But the majority contribution of the state through general taxation is indisputable. It is therefore incorrect to describe a still Italy so far. We do not want to forget the fundamental work of the municipalities, in a single and associated form, which often give priority to the fight against poverty in the destination of their spending. The extraordinary commitment of millions of volunteers must also be borne in mind. [[Applause from the PD Group),]] of the various third sector entities, which continue every day a centuries-old tradition, embodied in the spirit of brotherhood and solidarity that characterizes our country; a people who has been able to organize themselves in a national alliance against poverty, which has contributed decisively, with many ideas and just stimuli, to the result of today. We do not want to forget also the great role of families in cushioning the many labors, and not only of material order. And, however, in the national social protection system, at least two major types of citizens have so far remained outside: the long-term involuntary unemployed and families with dependent children and parents in incapience, or under unemployed conditions of employment. These are precisely the situations that see a priority commitment of income inclusion. It is precisely to these categories of people that the income of inclusion tries to give an answer as it is particularly vulnerable. Let us be clear: programmes that can face a condition of serious deprivation are essential. This measure is first of all designed to respond immediately, without waiting, to the dramatic survival needs of many families who struggle to buy food, to dress, to pay rent and bills. The challenge, however - on this we agree with all the colleagues of the parliamentary forces who spoke before me - is just after that of autonomy, as far as the possibilities of each one are concerned. Personalised projects, in agreement with the beneficiary, will have to be defined precisely in order to promote all forms of empowerment. Today's allocations make it possible to intervene, under the scheme, for about 400-500,000 households, i.e. for about 1.5 million people. It will start with those most in difficulty, but we, as Parliament, commit ourselves to a gradual increase in benefits and beneficiaries. A few things are being said: first of all, the appropriations are not enough. It is true - we have said this and we have also written it in the delegation - and, however, 2 new structural billions are a huge financial effort. [[Applause from the PD Group]] It is, to be sure, a measure that complements the interventions carried out in recent years to strengthen the purchasing power of medium-low incomes. Now it is up to those who are really poor, with figures that can reach up to 400 euros per month in the case of five components the core. A second criticism - and I am going towards the conclusion - is known: poverty is fought with work, not with subsidies. It can be answered by recalling that employment in recent years has grown by 700,000 units, but in reality we are often faced with people who, due to low schooling and deprivate environmental and economic context, find it hard to find a stable job, even with the best active labour policies. This will also require a major national programme to ensure the right to what former President of the Council, Matteo Renzi, called citizenship work. Of course, we think of models that are profoundly different from those that fail with socially useful works. It should also be added that the income of inclusion is not in contradiction with future citizenship work, because the measure we are about to approve is mainly about the coverage of family burdens. The two measures, on the contrary, can be completed. A third criticism concerns the amount that will be given to the beneficiaries: the one given today with the trials is not high and perhaps it will be able to grow a bit, not by much however, because otherwise you risk falling into the trap of poverty, something would certainly happen with the expected model of the income of citizenship of the 5 Star Movement, which - not by chance and not by party - has been severely criticized by us. When, in fact, generosity becomes exaggerated and is done with public money, then it is no longer good. [[Applause from the PD Group. Comments from the M5S Group]] It should be noted that their proposal would make very great contributions. Those who are unemployed with family duties and who do not find work, even if they are active, could for years receive a subsidy far higher than the income of the majority of Italians who work even with high skills. [[Comments of the Senators Catalfo and Paglini.]] So, while determined to help those who struggle hard, today we confirm that there is no right to idleness and that they do not convince us the solutions that favor indolence, among other things with a huge overall estimated expenditure and with largely non-existent covers. [[Applause from the PD Group. Comments of the Senators Catalfo and Paglini]] From tomorrow it will be up to the Government to quickly and effectively complete the draft that the law delegates to it. [[Protests from the M5S Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-781.ana.u79	Gentlemen, please, no one has interrupted your speeches, which have not been sensitive to the other side. So let's all talk, please.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-781.ana.u80	Mr Paglini (M5S). It's unheard of! LEPRI (PD). From tomorrow it will be up to the Government to quickly and effectively complete the draft that the law delegates to it. [[Senator Paglini's comments.]] It will not be easy to complete, especially to apply, such a demanding delegation. That is why we ask the Government to pay special attention to this challenge, simply because the poor people cannot wait. Mr Paglini (M5S). You don't know what poor people are! You try to be with five dependent children! LEPRI (PD). In conclusion, the income of inclusion that we approve today does not discourage commitment. In particular, it covers the costs of supporting dependent children. It relies on the development of social services and employment, but tries not to multiply the requirements. In essence, it is a good step forward in our system of social protection, made in the awareness that, as the philosopher Paul Ricoeur reminds us, "You can be with the poor only if you are against poverty". [[Applause from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-781.ana.u81	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote in dissent from my Group.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-781.ana.u82	I take note of that and give you the floor.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-781.ana.u83	SACCONI (AP (Ncd-CpE)). Madam President, in disagreement with my Group, I shall abstain from voting on this measure, because I am in favour of the allocation of important financial resources to families in absolute poverty, but I am critical of the possible lack of a necessary link between the grant and the implementation of the inclusion path. As I have already said, we have a duty to avoid the trap of poverty, inactivity, dependence, which implies the conditionality of the subsidy to what they consider useful those close to, with warmth, relate to people and families in need. The subsidy may in some cases fuel dependence on drugs, play and alcohol or may encourage addiction to passivity. In these cases, it is better to provide vouchers to access the satisfaction of primary needs or premiums at work when it is a source of income below the threshold of non-taxation. Minister, I trust that you will implement the delegations in the sense that I have also indicated with an agenda accepted by the Government, because we must always reject the inevitable fate of exclusion and always pursue, for each one, an active life.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-781.ana.u84	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote in dissent from my Group.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-781.ana.u85	I take note of that and give you the floor.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-781.ana.u86	BULGARRELLI (M5S). Madam President, thank you very much for the floor, which was badly taken away from me the other day. Randomly - I have to say to myself - we deal with poverty at the end of the parliamentary term, already in the electoral campaign, as it happens. Will it really be a coincidence, given that the subject of poverty for three years could have been quietly discussed in the Commission's work? You could have done it then, three years ago, but you do it right now, as it happens now that we're back in the election campaign. It really looks like the usual policy of economic bonuses to get you to vote and I think it's really sad to ride poverty to create consensus in the election campaign. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] Just in case, right now we're talking about employment centers. Perhaps you did not notice that the employment centres are being completely reformed in our draft law. And, by chance, there are all active policies (always random). Only now, however, is this subject being discussed in the election campaign. The income of citizenship should have introduced it Renzi during the reform of the job. VOICES FROM THE PD GROUP. He's not dissenting! BULGARRELLI (M5S). As it happens, labour reform has touched on everything except the only important thing: the employment centre and active policies. Europe asked for it, and we didn't say it. Just in case, then no and now yes. And it's not like we haven't told you in three years. We said it in every way possible, and you told us that there were no covers, that our bill was... [[Protests from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-781.ana.u87	Colleagues, you have asked for the floor in dissent. He's declaring his dissent and then we'll see if he'll finish it.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-781.ana.u88	BULGARRELLI (M5S). I shall, of course, vote no to this electoral march, in dissent from my Group. [[Protests from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-781.ana.u89	If you do not disagree with the Group, I shall take your word for it.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-781.ana.u90	BULGARRELLI (M5S). May I conclude, Madam President? However, I have not interrupted anyone, I have not faked and, therefore, I hope that the House will allow me to conclude. [[Protests from the PD Group.]] VOICES FROM THE PD GROUP. He's not dissenting! BULGARRELLI (M5S). For three years, you told us that our bill had no cover and favored idleness. Gentlemen, idleness is not included in our citizenship income at all. Starting with the fleas that have been made there, we change the section of the bill: it is not a citizenship income, but a guaranteed minimum income. Are you happier? Do you approve of it now if it is a minimum income? [[Applause from the M5S Group]] You read it, you knew it was a guaranteed minimum income! [[Applause from the M5S Group]] The really sad thing, with regard to our bill on the income of citizenship or guaranteed minimum income - we will change the heading of the bill - is that you have not even managed to get the General Accounting of the State - it is now clearly no longer a technical but political body - to approve a technical report against it. The note of the General Accounting of the State makes fleas on our covers... [[The microphone automatically switches off]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-781.ana.u91	Senator, finish.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-781.ana.u92	BULGARRELLI (M5S). He gave his other colleagues an extra minute. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I already gave it to him. Get it done. BULGARRELLI (M5S). We say that we increase the single treasury levy (PREU) and you say that if we do, the revenue will not increase, but will decrease. But if VAT goes up to 24%, do not give this speech. In addition, you tell us that we are only operating through decrees of the President of the Council of Ministers. You give us fleas on our covers, not on the sums, but only on the procedures and that means, therefore, that the covers are there and it would be time to stop with this speech. I'm just gonna do this because otherwise he's gonna take my word off. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-781.ana.u93	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote in dissent from my Group.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-781.ana.u94	I take note of that and give you the floor.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-781.ana.u95	Mr Paglini (M5S). Madam President, my explanation of vote will be in disagreement with the 5 Star Movement Group, even though the decision has been taken very hotly. As a member of the 11th Commission and having had the opportunity to follow closely the course of this measure, I would have preferred something else. Then, however, I thought about it because, coming to Parliament, I was sent by the Italian citizens who are outside of this House, who - good or bad - must also have a result from my work, from my work. I understand that many of my colleagues here have absolutely no idea what it means to live in conditions of difficulty and poverty. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] They have no idea what it's like to live with 400 euros of social pension per month. They have absolutely no idea what it's like to go with their heads down and ask for alms with the saucer in hand in front of someone who, in return, always asks for a vote, maybe for some charity. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] Madam President, with these ears I have heard things I never wanted to hear. I have heard from some colleagues that our proposal for citizenship income is highly dangerous: is it because people are given a chance to live decently? We did not say that, but high, very high European bodies such as Eurostat, which defined poverty and its parameters. So, we didn't do it. Madam President, I am not making fun of us and millions of people as you are still doing today. Therefore, I will vote firmly against this scumbag, thought not now, but three days after the constitutional referendum. Remember that all the time. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] But the Italians have given you a lesson that will turn against you. You were sent home in 20 million in that referendum. This time there will be 40 million Italians who will no longer believe your empty words. Madam President, I am going to vote no firmly. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-781.ana.u96	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote in dissent from my Group.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-781.ana.u97	I take note of that and give you the floor.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-781.ana.u98	[[Protests from the PD Group and Senator Buemi.]] Colleagues, the Rules of Procedure are clear: Senators can speak in dissent from the Group. So it's no use for you to keep yelling. Please, Senator. NUGNES (M5S). Madam President, there is nothing else to add. I agree with the explanations of vote by Mrs Bulgarelli and Mrs Paglini. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-781.ana.u99	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-781.ana.u100	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-781.ana.u101	AIROLA (M5S). Madam President, I am speaking on the order of business. As you have just been elected, I only ask the Presidency to be a little more severe with that part of the hemicycle occupied by the PD and the other Members shouting. [[Protests from the PD Group and Senator Buemi.]] This is what one who has been expelled from the Chamber many times says. So, I want fair treatment between us and them, who continue to disturb. [[Senator Buemi's comments.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-781.ana.u102	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote in dissent from my Group.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-781.ana.u103	I take note of that and give you the floor.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-781.ana.u104	Mr Lezzi (M5S). Madam President, I must reluctantly vote in dissent from my Group. I shall vote against this measure because I do not accept the lectures on the cover-ups by the majority party, which forces us to look for resources within a fake budget, so much so that we are forced to put our hands back on the portfolios of the Italians to go and repair the flaws caused. I would like to remind Senator Lepri, in my dissenting explanation of vote, that if a State fails to give real work to its citizens, it must not be ashamed to assist them. I am not ashamed to assist them and to think about that schooling that cannot happen if parents starve to death. That must be clear. Poverty is a very serious speech, which cannot be addressed with the definitions of the great thinkers who are on your media. Call him whatever the hell you want. Make clear and sincere balance sheets and stability laws. Tell us where you take the cover, you who have always acted in deficit by increasing the public debt. Stop being a professor and go home! [[Applause from the M5S Group.]] [[Protests from the PD Group and Senator Buemi.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-781.ana.u105	I call on the senators to address the Presidency and not colleagues.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-781.ana.u106	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote in dissent from my Group.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-781.ana.u107	I take note of that and give you the floor.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-781.ana.u108	BOTTICS (M5S). Madam President, this is nothing but a delegated law. So, if anything, the memorable day will be when the money really comes in the pocket to the people who need it. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] I would like to remind you that, when the family is unable to support their children, since this measure will not help poor families in any way, because we are talking about poor families, those who have no money, those who are right in the poop...
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-781.ana.u109	Please, Senator. We're still in the Senate.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-781.ana.u110	BOTTICS (M5S). We do it every day if we're okay. I was saying, what's going on? It happens that, if a family fails to support their children, they are also removed and often end up in certain communities - and we in Tuscany have one, Il Forteto - where scary things happen. But we're just pretending nothing. Let us try, then, to solve the problem properly. The guaranteed minimum income is a support that goes to change the status, because today the work system is changing and we no longer have work for everyone. We begin to say that the world of work is changing and therefore, if we do not change that and if we do not start to do computerization courses also to those workers who today do not know English or do not know the new machines, all these tips will do nothing. My vote will therefore be against. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-781.ana.u111	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote in dissent from my Group.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-781.ana.u112	I take note of that and give you the floor.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-781.ana.u113	ENDRIZZI (M5S). Madam President, I have great difficulty in voting on a measure that should support interventions against poverty, promoted by a government and a majority of government that instead put their hands in the pockets of citizens through an occult withdrawal with gambling. Not later than two days ago, undersecretary Baretta in the Finance Committee boasted the record of tax revenue from gambling, with almost 10 and a half billion taken from the pockets of the poorest, because we know that gambling is mainly the weak, the ones you tell us today that you want to defend. And so, we know that it is not only families that suffer, but also artisans, shopkeepers and entrepreneurs, who see rivers of money taken away from domestic consumption and virtuous consumption. We see the hypocrisy of state, which emphasizes these revenues and forgets that the healthy economic fabric, which sees that money lack, would result in virtuous revenues. We forget that the same money, invested in the healthy supply chains of the economy, would give much more employment. And then I can't accept this hypocrisy, these tips, these bits put to hide cover of shame. I can't accept that you play on numbers, because 10 and a half billion have been removed. If we return them to the Italians and add those who have been squandered in the tips, bonuses and relief rain interventions, which we rightly want to replace with a citizenship income, if we add all this, the 17 billion we have calculated are widely covered. In this way we would give dignity to people and families, who could free themselves from the political blackmail of a job obtained through recommendations or through the push of the mob. This is what we want to achieve. At this point, then, it is not possible for me to accept this mystification and I will vote firmly against it. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-781.ana.u114	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote in dissent from my Group.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-781.ana.u115	I take note of that and give you the floor.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-781.ana.u116	FALANGA (ALA-SCLP). Madam President, I shall be voting against my Group's motion for a resolution on a matter not of merit but of method. Those who have made the choice to use the legislative instrument of the delegation law must explain to me why they have done so. The delegation law is used when the matter is particularly complex, so that Parliament delegates the Government to approve implementing decrees that are detailed in the regulation of the matter. Now, providing for measures to combat poverty and provisions for assistance to the most needy sections of our country was a technical and regulatory operation of great simplicity. For this reason, when I see the delegation law, I worry, because then with the implementing decrees comes out of everything and more, certainly within the limits of the constitutional rule and the relevance of the matter. Surprises, however, can be varied. Therefore, I will abstain from voting and reserve the right to make a judgment when I have read the implementing decrees. I reserve the right to take serious decisions in the opinion, as far as possible, given that the negative opinion of a Commission is not binding. For the moment I tell you that if you have used this tool to make fun of the poor people who live in difficult conditions, you should be ashamed of them.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-781.ana.u117	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote in dissent from my Group.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-781.ana.u118	I take note of that and give you the floor.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-781.ana.u119	TAVERNA (M5S). Madam President, I will not vote because, if we have managed to drag these characters into an initiative to give something to the Italian people, I feel proud to have done so in the framework of the 5 Star Movement. In fact, if the action had to start with them, nothing would ever have been done. I'm not going to vote for a simple reason. As Senator Falanga said, we are faced with a delegated law that entrusts the treatment of the matter to a Minister who produced jobs act, vouchers and one of the most tragic moments in the history of work in Italy. [[Applause from Senator Bottici]] So, I dare not imagine what it could produce in terms of combating poverty. For the rest, my lords, your journey is now at the end. It will be us who bring the Italians the income of citizenship and it will finally be that a page worthy of being lived in these classrooms. [[Comments from the PD Group.]] I can wish you well. You will have to lower your retirement age to 65 years and I hope you do not take your pension between four years and four months. I hope that you will have to live with 400 euros a month, without assistance and pass on what you have passed on to the Italian people under this Government. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-781.ana.u120	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-781.ana.u121	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-781.ana.u122	CASTALDI (M5S). Madam President, I would like to take advantage of Mr Poletti's presence in the Chamber to ask whether this measure will also benefit Buzzi and Carminati. I would also like to inform the majority that the next item on the agenda provides for the discussion of the report by the Junta of Parliamentary Elections and Immunities on the contested election in the Liguria Region, that is, the case concerning Senator Minzolini, against whom I have nothing on a personal level. However, we must restore legality and, since there is now a quorum in this House, I would like to ask the Presidency to avoid games and suspensions and the majority to stay here, because - I repeat - there is a quorum with us. We can therefore carry out the legality in this House, sending Senator Minzolini home, who receives the salary of a Member of Parliament and, since you are talking about poverty, risks, like you, acquiring the right to parliamentary pension on 15 September. [[Applause from the M5S Group. Comments from the PD Group]] CASINI (AP (Ncd-CpE)). Let's vote!
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-781.ana.u123	Pursuant to Rule 120 (3) of the Rules of Procedure, I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of bill No 2494, composed of only Article 1. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). Consequently, the draft law no. 2241 and 2437.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-781.ana.u124	Colleagues, many requests have been made to the Presidency on matters not on the agenda. [[Protests from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-781.ana.u125	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-781.ana.u126	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-781.ana.u127	CASTALDI (M5S). President. - The debate is closed at 2 p.m. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I'll justify my decision. In the meantime, I see Senator Montevecchi nominating that she wants to intervene. CASTALDI (M5S). Let's move on! We still have an hour and a half! [[Protests from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-781.ana.u128	Please don't scream. I'd say it's best not to scream. Let's talk. This is a Parliament and we must therefore speak.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-781.ana.u129	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-781.ana.u130	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-781.ana.u131	Montevecchi (M5S). Madam President, we have already had the awakening of President Grasso, who has decided to suspend the examination of a measure without even having it voted in this Chamber and, in our opinion, against any regular procedure, with a practice which is fully used and consumed by the majority power. This, among other things, was also the case in the face of the objections made in a manifest way by other political forces and in a way that was not manifested in that place by us, because clearly - as was the case in the Rules of Procedure - we expected a vote on that suspension. We would now have on the agenda the debate on document III, No 2, which has been on the calendar for weeks because it is alternately inserted after unfinished arguments or after unfinished drafts of law, depending on whether it is useful or not to have the measure slipped again into the schedule. Well, it is 12.30 p.m., and the work of this House ends at 2 p.m., so we would have as much as an hour and a half to examine this document. I would therefore like to hear from you what you are going to hold on to this time, what the grip will be to take, once again, this House - and at this point the institutions - and not to examine the document. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]] [[Comments from Senator Bianconi.]] Senator Bianconi refrains from making the noise. When Senator Bianconi speaks, I don't speak to her and, therefore, I demand as much education from her.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-781.ana.u132	On behalf of the Assembly, I greet the teachers and students of the Istituto comprensivo "3° Castaldi Rodari" in Boscoreale, in the province of Naples, who are attending our works. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-781.ana.u133	Compared to the request made on the basis of what the President has already said, since the Committees for Constitutional Affairs and Justice are convened for the examination of the decree-law immigration and the Commission for Justice has been authorized to convene to examine the amendment submitted by the Government to the bill for the reform of the penal code and criminal procedure, appreciated the circumstances, I think it is appropriate to move on to the speeches on topics not included on the agenda. I was asked for the motivation and I gave it back. Bianconi (AP (Ncd-CpE)). Bravo!
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-781.ana.u134	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-781.ana.u135	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-781.ana.u136	CRIMI (M5S). Madam President, it is clear now. So far we have always argued that the Presidency had no direct responsibility for the extension of the agony of Senator Minzolini, who does not know what his destiny will be. The Presidency has always been entrenched on the pretext that the Conference of Leaders by majority is the body that decides on the work of the Assembly. Today, on the other hand, the presidency of the Senate assumes the responsibility of closing the proceedings of the Assembly in advance so that it does not vote on the decadence of Senator Minzolini. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] Now there are no more excuses: it is the responsibility of the Senate Presidency and President Grasso himself should take responsibility for this choice. He can no longer hide behind the excuse that it is the fault of the House that votes on a calendar that he does not share. Now President Grasso and you, Madam President, have no more excuses: you are forcing the House to close its work an hour and a half earlier than expected. Today, the Constitutional Affairs and Justice Commissions meet to close the general discussion. There is not even a vote and, therefore, it will be deserted as usual. FUCKSIA (Mixed). Take it easy. Minzolini stays. AIROLA (M5S). You need Forza Italia vows for Lotti!
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-781.ana.u137	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-781.ana.u138	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-781.ana.u139	FUCKSIA (Mixed). Madam President, I find it very guilty that we do not sometimes examine the most just and congruent draft laws, but I find it extremely shameful to speculate, even if I know that I propose nothing, as the 5 Star Movement did this morning: that Group proposes to give funds to employment centres, which do not solve the problem and have never solved it so far, because they do not go to the root, that is to say, job creation and employment. I find the request of Senator Crimi very instrumental, because now we will see the colleagues of the 5 Star Movement running away for the imminent beginning of the meetings of the Commission and more. I find this to be a sign of falsehood. [[Applause and ironic kisses from Senator Lezzi.]] Senator Lezzi, you know what? Instead of applauding me and commenting, go to study: it is shameful, it really lacks the basis. He knows neither roles nor foundations of the economy nor of anything else. Sometimes, Senator Lezzi, communication summaries aren't enough, you understand? At least this. [[Senator Bulgarelli's comments.]] BUEMI (Aut (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT)-PSI-MAIE). Let her talk! FUCKSIA (Mixed). So you're all embarrassed. You're just using it. You're shameful! PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator Fucksia, address the presidency. FUCKSIA (Mixed). Sorry, Madam President, I'm done.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-781.ana.u140	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-781.ana.u141	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-781.ana.u142	Mr Russo (PD). Madam President, I would like to reply to Senator Crimi in relation to the continuation of the work of this House. Today we are forced to note that the subject on the agenda following what we have just exhausted cannot be concluded by 14:00, thanks above all - and I stress this to my colleagues in the 5 Star Movement - to the obstructionism that colleagues in that Group have done for forty minutes... [[Applause from the PD Group.]] CRIMI (M5S). It was five minutes for Group! Mr Russo (PD). They pretended to vote against their group, and only for a useless show, on a sacrosanct and legitimate measure on poverty, which we fortunately approved. [[Warm protests from the M5S Group. Exchange of epithets between Senators Buemi and Castaldi, to which Senator Laura Bottici, Commissioner of the Senate, approaches.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-781.ana.u143	Senator Castaldi, listen to Senator Commissioner and be quiet.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-781.ana.u144	Mr Russo (PD). It seems to me quite clear that this reaction certifies the fact that I hit in the mark. I am happy, because those who follow us from outside understand that, while the other colleagues present in this hemicycle listen to what is said by the Senators of the 5 Star Movement Group, even when they may not deserve it, the latter systematically prevent us from speaking when we intervene and this is also seen outside. [[Applause from the PD Group. Ironic applause from Senator Castaldi.]] I'm glad it's clear to everyone. In order to conclude this debate, in support of the Presidency's decision in relation to the need for the Commissions to work, today, in the presence of President Grasso, we have considered giving a mandate to the Commission justice to proceed urgently to the examination of a measure that I believe is also of interest to colleagues of the 5 Star Movement, that is, to the civil process. I therefore believe that it is everyone's interest to get the Commission to work. Having said that, I would like to say very clearly, also on behalf of the Group of the Party of European Socialists, that it is not possible to deal quickly with the question of Senator Minzolini, who is on the agenda today, in that hour and twenty minutes that separate us from the closing of the sitting. It will be treated, as is normal, in the continuation of our work next week. I believe that there is no problem in this respect. [[Senator Airola's comments.]] Colleagues of the M5S Group, I would avoid this useless gazzarra, which may be useful for a small and instrumental controversy, but it does not benefit the work of this House. If, however, the Presidency considers putting the decision it has put before the House to the vote, we are ready to vote, including to allow the Commissions to do their work.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-781.ana.u145	I certainly accept the proposal to refer the subsequent items to the agenda for another sitting, tabled by Senator Russo. I therefore call on Members to take their seats in order to proceed to the vote by show of hands.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-781.ana.u146	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-781.ana.u147	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-781.ana.u148	ENDRIZZI (M5S). Madam President, what I have to say is also an explanation of vote. We cannot accept the lies: that this majority wanted to leave, the trolleys that are on the ground floor, the trolleys that we see turning in the corridors... (You may be from the PD Group). And to the Italians I mean... BORIOLI (PD). There are stars on the trolleys! [[Senator Manconi's comments.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-781.ana.u149	Senator Endrizzi, you use the time I gave you to offend colleagues not only in the Democratic Party, but also everyone else, because the trolleys you're talking about may be everyone's, and so please be serious. [[Applause from the PD Group and Senator Repetti.]] [[Senator Endrizzi's comments.]] I remember the vote was by show of hands. [[Senator Endrizzi points out that he wants to intervene.]] He's already spoken. Don't offend colleagues and I'll give you the floor.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-781.ana.u150	Mr President, I do not know whether you consider a correction aimed at restoring the truth offensive. You just said the Commissions are called in. Well, the text from the Commission says that we are not called now, but at the end of the session, which is scheduled for 2 p.m. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] Therefore, it does not correspond to the truth you have said, namely that we must suspend this House because the Commissions are meeting. In fact, the opposite is true of the Rules of Procedure: only at the end of this House can a Commission be convened. So things need to be restored to the order of truth. We want you to stay here and start the debate on the next item on the agenda.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-781.ana.u151	Senator Endrizzi, we rely on the vote of the Assembly. Colleagues, I too believe, in my role, that it is not useful to deal in a very short time with an issue such as what is only meant to begin. It is also a matter of seriousness. There's just over an hour. I repeat that this is a matter of seriousness. So let us all try to have responsibilities and try to express ourselves anyway, because we are in Parliament; the majority is right and we will see the majority of who will be and what will decide.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-781.ana.u152	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-781.ana.u153	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-781.ana.u154	Madam President, I believe that the truth must rightly be restored. For example, the 7th Commission, which I chair, is convened. I believe that Members have the right to work, to do their work and to achieve results. Montevecchi (M5S). Please! Come on! Mr Marcucci (PD). It seems to me that the attitude of the 5 Star Movement goes exactly the opposite, including the fact that many of the trolleys have the sticker of the 5 Star Movement. [[Applause from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-781.ana.u155	I'd say the best thing is to close the trolley. I put to the vote the proposal to refer the following items to the agenda, tabled by Senator Russo, to another sitting. It's approved.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-781.ana.u156	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-781.ana.u157	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-781.ana.u158	BOTTICS (M5S). Madam President, Senator Vacciano wanted to speak and ask if we could at least begin the debate on the Committee of Inquiry into the banking system. But let's forget it. I promised that every day I would do an intervention on Il Forteto and so I continue. I invite President D'Ascola and the rapporteur, Capacchione, to conclude the examination, as I would like to read page 55 of the first Commission of Inquiry on Il Forteto, carried out by the Region of Tuscany. It was 1997 when he arrived in Mugello De Berardinis, responsible for the mental health of the area. He said: "There was (...) an atmosphere of supposed friendship, I did not feel comfortable and therefore after a brief moment of education I left. There was - (...) I believe in 1998 - a conference in Florence organized by this association, I was invited and I participated as a hearer in the audience to give me an idea of what it was and what this institution actually consisted of, about which I heard a lot about. On that occasion I got a very precise idea, let's say this: the things that were supported were above all against the law: the law on trusts was absolutely nothing of what was advocated on those occasions and the position, which was somehow represented as a conceptual ideological position, was absolutely paranoid. It was in clear contrast all that was presented as a philosophy of this institution, a philosophy decidedly disturbed, let's say so. The philosophy of the Forteto is that the children entrusted must not have relations with the families of origin: this is the central point of the Forteto. I therefore call again on President D'Ascola and the rapporteur, Mrs Capacchione, to bring to the attention of the Assembly, as has been decided in this House, the draft law proposing to set up a Commission of Inquiry into the events that have taken place in the Il Forteto community. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-781.ana.u159	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-781.ana.u160	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-781.ana.u161	PALMA (FI-PdL XVII). Madam President, I speak very bitterly. When I read the Minutes during the sitting, I saw that the President of the Senate, Senator Grasso, said that he could not answer me because I had not - and I quote - had the delicacy to wait for the answers and had left the Chamber. Madam President, allow me to say that this is a sterile polemic, not in tune with the role of referee and mainly reckless, because I could not have been here because of my well-known poor health conditions and also because President Grasso should remember that, some time ago, he had to inflict, against every procedural and regulatory rule, the sanction of the deploration, which then - thank God - the Bureau had to withdraw unanimously. I would like to say to the House - I am not interested in arguing with President Grasso - that I was not present in this House because I had gone - as I believe it is my right and duty - to attend my grandson's degree. And I say to the House that I would never be deprived of this joy, even if the answers were to come from an authoritative person and, even more so, then, if the answers were to come, as in the case at hand, from a person who seems to me intolerablely authoritarian. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator Palma, please contain yourself.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-781.ana.u162	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-781.ana.u163	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-781.ana.u164	GIROTTO (M5S). Madam President, this morning, in Venice, Greenpeace demonstrated against a situation that is now endemic and out of control, which is that of water pollution, which we all drink: as they explained to us in the elementary schools, in fact, according to the water cycle, a pollution that should start from the area of Vicenza, will shortly reach us all. Greenpeace has done extra analyses compared to those of the Veneto Region and has found a new polluting substance and additional contaminated wells to the north compared to the already controlled areas. The danger widens further. If anyone here hopes that the problem will be solved on their own, I'm sorry to disintegrate it. But these pollutants, called Pfas (perfluoroalkyl substances), are highly biopermanent, i.e. they do not degrade or take very long to degrade. This was established not by myself, but by the Senate Committee of Inquiry, which studied the problem and confirmed the enormous danger of the situation. We, in the face of this, adopt the usual Italian solution. Twenty-five years ago I sold water purifiers because there was an atrazine emergency and we, twenty-five years ago, raised the tolerance limits ten times. The Veneto Region has raised the limits of tolerance and are very high for the Pfas. This is water that we will all drink in a few minutes in the canteen and those who are already there, know that it could contain these substances. We are therefore, for the umpteenth time, cuckolds and bunches because we do not intervene against pollution while we could do so by creating a lot of jobs and safeguarding the made in Italy. Know, in fact, that these substances are used mainly for clothing, but Italian companies are an excellence from this point of view. They have largely managed to remove these chemicals by replacing them with non-dangerous substances. If we were to act politically, we could safeguard the environment and Italian clothing production, which has lost 100,000 jobs in the last ten years. Here politics becomes beautiful with English words such as green act, green job and promises us for two years a facility for the conversion of petrochemical to green chemistry, but we do not act. In doing so, more to die poisoned, we lose hundreds of thousands of jobs.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-781.ana.u165	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-781.ana.u166	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-781.ana.u167	ICHINO (PD). Madam President, in recent days the Constitutional Court, at the request of the TAR Lombardy, has established that a university cannot organize a master's degree course all in English. I refer to Judgment No 42 of 24 February. "We are in Italy", seems to say the Consulta, "The official language of our country is Italian". In this unpredictable impulse of sovereignism, the Consulta seems to forget a point not at all secondary: the physical, chemical, biological sciences, history, philosophy, economy, mathematics and computer science are not "Italian"; their homeland is the world; and their language - like it or not - today is English. In English, second-level university courses are held all over the world, because this is the only way to communicate with researchers and students around the world. Similarly, in all European universities, not by chance endowed with autonomy over their national governments, for many centuries it has been taught in all fields of knowledge not in Spanish, French, Alemann or Italian, but in Latin, the universal language of culture throughout our Middle Ages and also for a long time after the end of the same. I am sorry to have to denounce a small, but not meaningless, sin of provincialism of our highest court. [[Applause from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-781.ana.u168	Senator, I recall that Article 136 of the Constitution does not provide for such a clear position to be taken in the classrooms with regard to a judgment. Of course, our freedom is total, but it is my duty to quote the reference article.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-781.ana.u169	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-781.ana.u170	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-781.ana.u171	Campanella (Misto-SI-SEL). Madam President, I continue the relay that, as the Italian Left, we have started to call for the referendum on work, requested by the CGIL. As expected, instead of setting the date of the referendum, as the respect of democratic rules would impose, the government is only concerned about how to prevent the referendum from being celebrated. Forty-one days now the government has taken time and made melina; and instead of setting the date, as the Constitution would like, it tries to circumvent the referendum with a fake reform, partial, useful only to prevent citizens from speaking. Every day, we hear and read in the newspapers complaints of all kinds, for the distrust that is spreading towards the institutions. I therefore ask my colleagues in the majority: how can you not realize that such tricks constitute an attempt to prevent citizens and workers from expressing themselves not only on vouchers, but also, through the referendums approved by the Court, on the whole job act? In this way, it is the majority that undermines the credibility of democratic institutions. This is very serious and serious. We have just seen the arguments and ways used by the 5 Star Movement: disrespectful ways of this House and which refer to something that blames and degrades the goodness of this House. Parliament and, in this case, the government must do their duty: I am talking about duty because the call for a referendum is a duty; giving the citizens a political opportunity to say whether that law meets their favor or whether they consider it anti-popular is a duty for politics, because we are representatives of the citizens. Sovereignty belongs to the people. If we are not able to fulfil these duties, we run the risk that the whole garrison of the institutions, which we represent at the moment, will be prey to absolutely reckless attacks, such as those we have heard before. I would like this appeal to be made precisely by this House and its Presidency, and to ask the Government to take a proper position.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-781.ana.u172	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-781.ana.u173	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-781.ana.u174	Mr Bencini (Misto-Idv). Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, my speech is mainly about web-related democracy. The web represents a new mode of conveying messages, especially videos. However, I do not think it is right that this House should be used as a film set, as a theatre, as an arena, as a hamlet arena, because today things have been done here that are not really appropriate to this environment. They are done, often and willingly, to denigrate and are incorrect attitudes towards this place, so important. These attitudes put in place only serve to make videos to be advertised and conveyed through the Network, at the expense, as has often been mentioned, of the public administration, since the communication that each political group has within this House, is paid by the Senate, therefore with public money. Some attitudes are put in place within these classrooms even in a distorting way. It is a situation for which a number of parliamentary actors perform in saying some things - by virtue of a regulation that exists and therefore can be done - but they do so on time to get filmed in a video and then "spam" it on all sides, so that it has its own mediaticity, and say in it things that are not true or are half truth, because parallelly you do not upload the video of the counterpart who tells its truth. This is a mode of conveying incorrect news and therefore distorted information that is then disseminated. This puts democratic institutions at risk, in my view. The risk is to make affirm a cultural hegemony so that a news, even if false, is so conveyed that after some time it is discovered that that forgery has penetrated the minds of many people, becoming truth of meaning however, accepted as obvious by the population even if it is not true. This possibility to me personally disturbs a lot. I would like those who have the power to convey messages and news to do so in an objective, true or at best - as Verga said - true.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-781.ana.u175	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-781.ana.u176	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-781.ana.u177	MALAN (FI-PdL XVII). Madam President, I would like to ask a number of questions. I will not give the number of questions in my speech and leave this bureaucratic task to the offices. First of all, I am referring to questions about the incredible story of the press competition. We are before a government that does not indicate the races - as it would be mandatory and extremely convenient for Italians to do - and then wants to call the races for service contracts with the press agencies, risking to put in unemployment thousands of operators (it says 2,350 between journalists of one type and the other) and to deliver the information of our country, from the point of view of the agencies, in the hands of other countries that do not do these things. For example, the French Government gives EUR 245 million to the France Press and France Press acts under a total monopoly regime. Instead, here we should call for a European race, for which France Press will also compete, which will be able to afford to make an offer below cost. The government needs to respond to this. Second point: the question of the landings and the recovery of migrants (let's call it what we want) is very topical and it would be the least that the Government (should have done this on its own initiative) would explain exactly how our ships and the ships of the so-called NGOs go to recover these people, it seems even inside the Libyan waters. We have even tracked this in the reports of international bodies. I think there's an answer to that. Then there is the chapter of the races that are not done, probably because they all come under someone who finances the main party of government. I am referring, first, to the Asti-Cuneo motorway: here it is not a problem of race that is not done, but of a highway for which we are spending the triple of what had been established in the race (strangely the race had been made, then makeup later) and the winner had committed himself to making enough. And four years after the deadline, we are still very far from completion. There is also my question which asks how the Ministry of Infrastructure has acted to protect the interests of the State on this point. And there is my question about the Freeways for Italy, since it seems that, under the pretext of the so-called Genoa eavesdropping, it wants to forfeit a few tens of billions against an expenditure of three or four billions, encountering great favor from the Government, perhaps because Autostrade for Italy has sided for the yes to the referendum. Then there is the lack of race for the ATIVA, for the Turin-Piacenza and for the Ligurian-Tuscan highway, which are now due, and every day that passes is a net gift of hundreds of thousands of euros to the manager, which is always only one. The mystery of the signatures on who allowed the company A4 Holding, which manages Brescia-Padova, a delay of two years compared to a deadline that had been approved by Parliament to present the plans for the completion of a related work: already twice the government has pretended to answer my question and has never explained who, when and why signed this extension. The rotation of the managers, previewed from the law anticorruption, always to the Ministry of infrastructures and the transports. The lack of competition and the increase of the rates of the company ATIVA, that has been seen to expire with success the concession last August and continues to manage the service; the Government not guiltyly does not indicate the contest for the confidence of the management and even grants to the society an increase of the rates, when instead all the matches should finally be zeroed. The judiciary is dealing with this, but it would be the least the government could answer. [[Applause from Senator Amidei.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-781.ana.u178	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-781.ana.u179	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-781.ana.u180	CANDIANI (LN-Aut). Madam President, first of all, at the beginning of my speech, I would like to ask the Government, through your person, to reply to Question No 4-06875, which has long been unanswered. Madam President, the Lega Nord Group intends to express its closeness and participation to the regional councillors of the Umbria Region of the Lega Nord Group and the 5 Star Movement, who are occupying the seat of the Regional Council to demonstrate all the opposition of the Umbrian citizens in not receiving answers regarding the quality of the air and, above all, the incidents that have happened repeatedly in recent days, with the inability by the authorities to control the emissions of the Terni incinerator. It is a serious and difficult situation, for which this afternoon, at 5 pm, we will manifest in the square in front of the headquarters of the Umbria Region. You can't be superficial in these answers. The Umbria Region can and must do more about the protection of citizens and especially the separate collection. Too many dark sides remain with regard to the failure to implement regional waste disposal and separate collection plans and too many interests remain, unfortunately, in our view, protected by the regional administration. On the other hand, we are interested in protecting the health of our citizens, and we will not be doing any discount on these issues. As we have written well, therefore: no thank you. Environment and health, let's not smoke them.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-781.ana.u181	The motions, questions and questions received by the Presidency will be published in Annex B to today's report. I remember that the Senate will come back to meet in public today, at 4 p.m., with the agenda already printed and distributed. The sitting was closed at 13.07 a.m.
