ParlaMint-IT_2017-02-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-755.ana.u1	The sitting was opened at 16:01. The Minutes shall be read. Mr Pegorer, Secretary, read the Minutes of the afternoon sitting of the previous day. PRESIDENT. - The debate is Since there were no comments, the Minutes were approved.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-02-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-755.ana.u2	The list of senators on leave and absent on assignment received from the Senate, as well as further communications to the Assembly, will be published in Annex B to today's Minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-02-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-755.ana.u3	The next item is questions in immediate response (so-called question time), pursuant to Rule 151- bis of the Rules of Procedure, on the state of public accounts and on issues relating to the banking sector, to which Mr Padoan, Minister for Economic Affairs and Finance, will respond. It should be noted that RAI's live television is in progress and therefore I call for respect for the times. Let us turn to questions on the state of public finances. Senators may ask their questions to the Minister for two minutes each.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-02-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-755.ana.u4	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-02-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-755.ana.u5	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-02-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-755.ana.u6	Mr Guerrieri Paleopti (PD). Minister, Italy has long been engaged in a phase of responsible tax reforms and policies, which have led to first positive results, as evidenced by data on recent years. I would like to remind you that in terms of government accounts the deficit has steadily declined from 2014 onwards, from 3% to 2.4% last year and is expected to fall further this year. In this context, I believe that the request made recently by the European Commission for a structural correction of our public accounts, which, as we know, Brussels amounts to EUR 3.4 billion in 0.2% of gross domestic product. In your letter of reply to Commissioners Moscovici and Dombrovskis, you highlighted two important points in particular. Firstly, contrary to what Brussels claims, Italy has respected and respects the rule of the Stability Pact; the development of public debt is in fact in line with the criteria of the Stability Pact, taking into account the relevant factors that have influenced the same debt (and here there is a full appendix that demonstrates this). Secondly, you have reiterated that although the Government does not agree with the existence of this deviation, it will proceed with the correction required with a series of cuts in expenditure, new revenue, especially thanks to the fight against evasion. Now I believe that there are two points, respect for the rules of the Pact and compliance with our response to the Commission's request, which is very important and given the conflicting readings that have been given to them today, both on the media and at political level, I would ask you in your reply to clarify and define these two aspects in more detail.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-02-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-755.ana.u7	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-02-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-755.ana.u8	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-02-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-755.ana.u9	MANDELLI (FI-PdL XVII). Minister, the government has responded to the request received by the European Commission for the correction of public accounts of 3.4 billion in recent days, taking time until the next drafting of the DEF. The problems that are highlighted are both the deficit and the public debt, which is about to reach the record of 2.255 billion, including also the 20 billion that could be needed to stabilize the banking system. The figure of the deficit in relation to GDP, which still grows half of the European average, according to the EU forecast remains close to 133%. To strengthen our and the Commission's concerns, we add both the judgment of the rating agencies, which have removed the last A from our sovereign debt, and the development of the spread, which is worryingly rising. Here, in the face of these figures and an economic policy of the Government largely based on bonuses on the expenditure side and one-off resources on the revenue side, it is clear that there is a risk that the Commission, based on the assessment of numbers, may initiate an infringement procedure. The Italian public accounts did not show the rigour that led Europe to another assessment, which was not merely the accounting one. These signs, together with ineffective reforms, end up undermining that faint sign of trust that, despite everything, still comes from Italians and some economic sectors. That is why we ask Minister Padoan if the Government has a plan to replace the bonus policy introduced in these three years with permanent and structural measures and if it does not intend to reduce the tax burden in a fair and balanced way to finally facilitate recovery. We are also wondering whether we do not evaluate expenditure interventions, through a serious and structural cut in the cost of bureaucracy and the consequent burdens on citizens and businesses, which are the main brake on the growth of our economy.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-02-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-755.ana.u10	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-02-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-755.ana.u11	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-02-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-755.ana.u12	Mr Lezzi (M5S). Mr Minister, the days when we were talking about small beans through slides were over and you were there, complacent and smiling, saying that everything was going well, that we had a good relationship with Europe, that there was no problem with deficit and debt. All the European rules were obeyed and, therefore, we could be quiet. No, you don't. You have continued with your economic policy of bonuses, weak measures, as bad as ever, if not really wrong. Just one small example: the big bonus of decontribution that cost us 15 billion and only served to sell off workers' rights. Now we are talking, because of a request for a correction of 3.4 billion, of putting hand to tax expenditure (the deductions and tax deductions that help families that are already in distress) and to a supposed recovery of tax evasion with the split payment, which is then nothing more than an advance of VAT on those companies that now stifle due to the lack of liquidity (and we have a state that owes even more to our companies). You in your letter to Europe say that our budgetary policy for 2017 and the one planned for 2018-2019 are in the rules. I want to ask you one thing: if for 3.4 billion euros there is all this confusion of yours, when it comes to the new budget law, in which you will have to recover 20 billion euros of safeguard clauses that you have put at the expense of the Italians, how will you do it? Does that statement, when it says in the letter that everything is in place in our budgetary policy, mean that it will observe this commitment of its own? PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Please conclude, Senator. Mr Lezzi (M5S). Are you considering the fact that we are behind the whole of Europe precisely because investment is also lacking and when it snows and rains you die here?
ParlaMint-IT_2017-02-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-755.ana.u13	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-02-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-755.ana.u14	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-02-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-755.ana.u15	DE PETRIS (Misto-SI-SEL). Minister, to Commissioner Moscovici's letter of call of the last few days, you have responded by suggesting a hypothesis of corrective maneuvering, for a quarter on the cut side and for the remainder on the revenue side, which, in the end, deciphering well, means in fact a further likely increase for Italian households, especially on the side of deductions. By the way, in the letter he said that everything was fine anyway. Do you not think that the European Commission's intervention has been so evident because of the lack of credibility of the budgetary policies that have been going on in recent times? I am referring to policies that are all based on two fundamental axes: on the one hand, bonuses and on the other hand, only on the supply side and never on the demand side, with everything that this has involved (the first was the example of decontribution interventions). Don't you think it's time to make sure that you really change - and not pretend to change - and then start a serious investment policy that can get the country out of the crisis in which it continues to find itself and intervene only in this way also to improve the accounts?
ParlaMint-IT_2017-02-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-755.ana.u16	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-02-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-755.ana.u17	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-02-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-755.ana.u18	Mr Barani (ALA-SCLP). Minister, I apologise if, given the timing, I have not been able to examine in detail the 81 pages of reply to the request made by the European Commission, namely the report of the Treasury Department which has been submitted in the annex to your note. I only wonder if that follow is the right path or if it was not better to respond to the requests made, if only to respond in tone to those who asked - I quote - to know in detail the measures that the Government would take and their implementation times. Faced with such a precise and punctual request, the impression is, instead, that you want to menar the can for the threshing floor, with an obvious dilatory intent: you make melina, you throw the ball in the gallery. I do not know what the European Commission's reaction will be. What has been certain, however, is the response of the markets, Minister: from 18 January, the day after Brussels sent the request, in fact, the spreads on Italian securities jumped forward, from 160 to 188 basis points, with a growth of 12% and a sharp gap with the Spanish bonuses, which constitute our real benchmark. I would not, therefore, like to see the old carousel again in Italy being watched with too much intensity at the forthcoming elections and the settlement of accounts within the Democratic Party, at the international level; that is to say, the Italian public debt securities are sold to buy the Spanish ones: a film already seen in 2011, of which, even today, we are paying the consequences.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-02-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-755.ana.u19	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-02-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-755.ana.u20	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-02-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-755.ana.u21	DIVINE (LN-Aut). Minister, on 17 January, the European Commission informs us that we are risking a deviation from Italy's targets; the Commissioners are threatening an infringement procedure, clearly due to an excessive deficit, and are asking for a corrective measure worth EUR 3.4 billion. The Government's response - therefore its Minister - does not contain precise measures, but we see only medium-term measures: combating evasion, extending voluntary disclosure, reducing tax concessions and, alas, increasing revenue through the remodulation of excise duties and VAT. In essence, you have decided to make cash through masked condons and removing tax concessions that are mostly directed to the weakest categories; maneuvers that are used to instantly find resources, but leave intact and vulnerable as before the budget installation. You assured us that taxes and taxes would not be increased but - alas - it is yet another mockery, even if Renzi was accustomed to these premium measures because, rather than the economy to be directed, he thought of the next electoral deadlines. We also realized that Renzi probably would like to go to the vote immediately to avoid the government unpopular maneuvers and leave this sad situation to those who come after. The question is as follows, Minister: what are the precise actions and the precise deadlines for this now necessary corrective action? And how will they change excise duties and VAT to fix our public accounts?
ParlaMint-IT_2017-02-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-755.ana.u22	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-02-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-755.ana.u23	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-02-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-755.ana.u24	BONFRISCO (CoR). Minister, you are here in Parliament to answer for a bitter budget of your Government, the Renzi Government, and your economic leadership, because at last someone has written that the accounts do not come back. We know, however, that this opens for the country a very difficult and delicate scenario that all Italians will pay and pay, because Italians have already many years that pay the irresponsible choice of wrong policies. The umpteenth vague and uncertain answer to the European Union already shows who will pay once again. It is quick to say that there will be no new taxes, as if it were a television slogan, because in fact, already in your letter you indicate an increase in indirect taxation and that through excise duties, which colleagues have already mentioned, and which we all pay: we all pay a tax on petrol, which is, moreover, one of the most unjust and wrong taxes that exist, which depresses the drive for development that - I am sure - you wish, and we too, and that must give our country the certainty of a financial framework and of the public accounts that can be presented. At the end of a booze of bonuses thrown to the wind, I ask you: what are you really capable of responding to the European Union in addition to the vagueness of the things we already know? Give certainties to the Italians about their future. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I call Mr Padoan, Minister for Economic Affairs and Finance, together.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-02-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-755.ana.u25	Madam President, I would like to thank the Senators for their comments. I will respond in an overall way to the questions and observations made since they are oriented, albeit with different perspectives, on the same subject. First of all, let me say that the maneuver, which is not impromptu, and the measures we are talking about are placed in a more general framework of coherence of the policy of the current government and the previous government; a budgetary policy oriented to the dual objective of supporting growth and consolidation of finance in a context in which debt is stabilising. This is in compliance with the rules, despite the possible use of the flexibility margin that European rules allow and that Italy has helped to improve. Let me also say that I reject the description of government policy of these years as a bonus policy. This is certainly not the essential focus: it is a policy that has been based on structural reforms for growth, on tax cuts, on adjustment of expenditure and on relaunching public and private investment. That being said, the Commission's request for the abovementioned adjustment is part of a consolidated procedure. Already in the recommendations of last spring Italy was required to adjust the structural balance for 2017 by 0.6%. In the opinion of the draft budgetary plan 2017 of 16 November 2016, the Commission had estimated a total deviation from the targets of more than one percentage point of GDP: a deviation from the adjustment processes considered significant, despite the exceptional circumstances recognised by Italy, in particular the phenomena of migratory pressure and seismic phenomena. An assessment - I add - that was different from that of the Italian Government, that on the basis of measures in our opinion more realistic than the potential income, the so-called output gap, demonstrated (and continues to demonstrate in the annex to the letter) that Italy would be perfectly in line with all the European rules. However, the Eurogroup of 5 December last included Italy as one of the countries at risk of non-compliance. The request for additional measures was postponed to a moment after the formation of the new Government and, hence, the letter of 17 January. This letter recalls the need to reduce the deviation for 2017, in order to avoid the opening of a procedure for non-compliance with the debt rule (i.e. excessive deficit procedure linked to debt and not to the deficit which, as has been mentioned, has dropped and continues to decline). It also formally asks Italy to present all relevant elements for reasons of non-compliance with the debt rule for 2015. I remember that Italy has already been the subject of the start of procedures for the non-compliance with the rule of debt with reference to the debt of 2014 and 2015. In both cases the process ended without the opening of the procedure. With regard to 2015 the Commission had welcomed the information provided by Italy and had not opened the procedure in the light of the Government's commitment to improve the structural balance in line with the rules of the preventive part of the Pact. The Commission's evaluations had taken into account two additional circumstances: the impact of unfavourable macroeconomic conditions, including low inflation, which hinders the reduction of the debt-to-GDP ratio; the implementation of a broad and important, ambitious reform agenda to support growth and ensure the long-term sustainability of public finances. With reference to the compliance of the adjustment path of the structural balance, the Commission reserved the right to draw up a new analysis report on the situation in accordance with Article 126 (3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. Therefore, after the presentation of the draft budgetary plan for 2017, the Commission has again started the assessment of compliance with the debt rule. Compliance with the preventive part of the Pact and the possible opening of a procedure for non-compliance with the debt rule are linked. According to the Commission, adjustment measures are required for 2017, quantified, as mentioned, in 0.2% of GDP. In the letter of reply to the Commission and, more fully, in the report on the relevant factors, it is evident that compliance with the debt rule is also ensured during this part-session, taking into account the exceptional circumstances, but also a budgetary policy which is attentive to the stability of the debt and the deficit. For some time, Italy has achieved significant primary surpluses, which in 2016 allowed the substantial stabilisation of the debt-to-GDP ratio, although in a European context characterised by significant deflationary pressures. The events in the response to the Commission are therefore part of a growth and employment-friendly consolidation strategy. The gradual nature of the structural adjustment therefore also reflects the need not to damage growth and employment in a context of high uncertainty and the continuation of exceptional phenomena. In this context, therefore, it is not an extemporaneous maneuver, but balanced adjustment measures, but also support measures, as I shall say in a moment, which will have to be taken. I repeat, therefore, that this is a necessary reduction in structural net borrowing compared to the trend value of 0.2 points of GDP. The adjustment consists, for about a quarter, of selective expenditure cuts and, for about three quarters, of revenue measures. In particular, one billion euros is expected from higher revenue resulting from the strengthening of measures against evasion that have already proved effective, while interventions on VAT and tax relief are excluded. The extension to these purposes of further rounds of voluntary disclosure is excluded. But these measures to reduce expenditure and increase revenue are accompanied by other measures of opposite sign. It is intended, in fact, to allocate more than EUR 1 billion to deal with the consequences of the last earthquake shock and, in general, the seismic activity of these tragic months, to support the populations affected by the earthquake and to cope with the emergency. I would like to remind you that these measures will be adopted by the end of April at the latest, i.e. with the consistent timetable for the adoption of the Economic and Financial Document. It is very likely - we are considering this - that measures will be taken even before that deadline. Realistically, measures to combat evasion will be taken towards the end of this period, including to take account of the necessary approval of the Commission and the Council. Finally, I would like to point out that the possibility of possible infringement proceedings is extremely alarming. An adjustment of the dynamics of the structural public finance balance is therefore indispensable in order to avoid the opening of this procedure. This procedure would lead to a reduction of sovereignty over economic policy choices and above all would entail costs far greater than the country's public finance and therefore subtraction of resources for the public, for growth and for employment, as a result of the probable increase in interest rates, which so far are mainly affected by the increased political instability. PRESIDENT. - The debate is They now have the power to answer the questions, for one minute each.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-02-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-755.ana.u26	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-02-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-755.ana.u27	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-02-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-755.ana.u28	Mr Guerrieri Paleopti (PD). Madam President, I am pleased because the Minister's answers seemed to me to be timely on three fundamental aspects. First of all, the rules of the European Union are rules under discussion. I come from an interparliamentary conference in Brussels where I have seen much more openness to these rules than I have seen here as a defence orthodoxy. The rules are important, but there are some aspects that are under discussion; let us take note of them. Secondly, the path towards budgetary balance (what interests us) is not under discussion, because this path is traced and I think the Minister has reiterated that it is the main and fundamental interest of Italy to respect it. The third point, I think very important, is the correction: modalities and content must conform to the need to continue to support growth, which remains the key objective of this Government's economic policy. The debt-to-GDP ratio decreases if our country's GDP can somehow, not only continue, but strengthen its development path. So on this point it seems to me that we must agree, not least because there is greater openness at European level; let us note this and not assume an even more orthodox position than the Commission's position today.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-02-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-755.ana.u29	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-02-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-755.ana.u30	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-02-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-755.ana.u31	MANDELLI (FI-PdL XVII). Minister, thank you for your reply, but I do not hide that my concern has increased. The countries that are growing in Europe are those that have reduced taxes and have also reduced the impact of bureaucracy, as we asked in our demand. Italy continues to do the opposite: it adapts its revenue to the costs of the state apparatus, increasing taxes. The reforms you have launched (burocracy, services, labour market) are proving their inadequacy. Faced with this, the Government postpones a corrective manoeuvre of the accounts, postponing the decisions to the future and in fact mortgageing the future of the next generations. The government, with this maneuver that is preparing to make of 2.6 billion euros, will continue to drain the resources of the Italians, making the country increasingly poorer because of your economic policies, the policies that you have adopted in these three years.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-02-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-755.ana.u32	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-02-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-755.ana.u33	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-02-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-755.ana.u34	Mr Lezzi (M5S). You didn't answer my question, Minister. Yet it was a very clear question: what will be done in the budget law? Look, Minister, you have never answered a single question that I asked you, in addition to arriving here with the prepacked leaflet on a prepacked question. Here we talk about Italian families and businesses and, if we do not take note that with the fiscal compact we cannot go on, then I invite you (so much you are a guaranteed, coming from the International Monetary Fund, passes through the Government and will return to some other financial institution): free this country, because it needs investment, needs a citizenship income, needs a normal tax pressure that makes it competitive with the rest of the countries of Europe. Our country needs this.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-02-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-755.ana.u35	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-02-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-755.ana.u36	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-02-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-755.ana.u37	DE PETRIS (Misto-SI-SEL). Madam President, orthodoxy has been exercised by this Government, then by President Renzi and also by Minister Padoan, for the first two or three years; I also say this to my colleague Guerrieri Paleotti: Orthodoxy with respect to the fact that we never question European rules at all. Then, for electoral reasons of convenience, she pretended to bet her feet. The main way - and I am addressing the Minister again - is to call strongly in Europe for a serious process of revision of economic rules and, in the immediate future, for the introduction - which is an issue that we have always asked - of the rule that considers at least investment outside the Stability Pact. That is the only way - and this is where public demand and investment are concerned - to ensure that we really have an economic recovery. In fact, although very small, of the spaces of flexibility - I say this to the Minister and that is why I cannot be satisfied - they were liberated in Europe, but they were wasted and under no circumstances used in coherent policies of growth. Unfortunately, the results are before everyone's eyes.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-02-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-755.ana.u38	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-02-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-755.ana.u39	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-02-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-755.ana.u40	Mr Barani (ALA-SCLP). Minister, since you are a professor of Wisdom and if a student of yours came to take an examination, to which you had asked in detail whether you knew certain economic measures and their implementation times, had replied with an 81-page document, you would have rightly told him to return to the examination. Why? Because you have to be pragmatic. I'm not an economist, I'm a doctor, and when you have an infection, you have to give him the antibiotic. When a person has a gangly appendicitis he should be operated on (and if one has hepatitis C we must tell him to go to Egypt or India to take the drug because here it cost the Italian government three billion euros). This is to tell you that it is necessary to review the government's economic policy. Of course, now - Trump has said - the mark in the European Union is disguised as euros, but the original sin comes from the Prodi Government and Ciampi, who are figures to be reduced, and perhaps should be re-evaluated Paolo Cirino Pomicino, who did the Minister like you but who, however, was indebted to the Italians and not to Germany.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-02-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-755.ana.u41	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-02-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-755.ana.u42	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-02-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-755.ana.u43	DIVINE (LN-Aut). Mr Minister, I have not heard any kind of punctual manoeuvre: you have not told us about VAT or excise duties, which is what we were ultimately interested in. I remind you that Confcommercio has raised his shields saying that the most serious evil is that today there is no confidence and manoeuvres that still increase the cost of goods would only depress consumption further. So it is a way to avoid at all costs. Banks also have savings, but there is no confidence, so there is no increase in consumption. You have focused a lot on debt, but, Minister, we have gone through years of zero inflation, with a cost of money, thanks to the ECB's manoeuvres, basically zero. The debt should have decreased with intelligent maneuvers. We have reached the historic peak of debt, so this government just has to run away and not make any kind of claim. Prizes were offered on a very precise date: the 80 euros, the bonus for teachers, the 500 euros for 18 year olds. The government has done so much propaganda, unfortunately, but few serious things.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-02-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-755.ana.u44	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-02-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-755.ana.u45	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-02-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-755.ana.u46	BONFRISCO (CoR). To Mr Paleotti and to you, Minister, I would like to represent all our bitterness in noting that today the European rules are also wrong for you; yet you have spent many years invoking them against other governments that, first, were in a position to defend Italian interests, right there. And there we continued to see the Italian reasons and interests mortified. That is why I am not fond of letters, especially if they come from the European Union, because every time letters from the European Union have arrived in this country, cataclysms have happened. However, I am interested in listening to more precise words from you, Minister, about how Italians are guaranteed that the only way to catch up is not to respond to the letters of the European Union, but to reduce taxation on families and businesses and not to invent a successful way, such as excise duty, to continue taxing Italians and to demand sacrifices only from them.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-02-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-755.ana.u47	Let us now turn to questions on banking issues, which will be answered by the Minister for Economic Affairs and Finance, Professor Padoan.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-02-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-755.ana.u48	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-02-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-755.ana.u49	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-02-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-755.ana.u50	Mr Russo (PD). Minister, today in Italy and Europe we face a truly cyclopean task: to recreate solidity and trust in the banking system, questioned and in doubt because of the economic crisis, but also by fraudulent attitudes of administrators and managers. If, therefore, it is true that one of the central issues of the crisis of the system to be answered in order to restore its credibility is linked to the possibility of finding a solution to the issue of deteriorated credits and if a few days ago the president of the European Banking Authority asked Europe to adopt a bad bank, common to facilitate the disposal of bad debts, I ask you if this can really be a credible scenario and a solution that finds the support of the Italian Government. I would also ask you whether there is room for virtuous negotiation leading to a reorganization of the European system and not just Italian, if it is true, as the media have reported, that for example the German Federal Government would have already communicated its difficulty in assessing this proposal positively. Secondly, I ask you, also on behalf of 110 colleagues of majority and opposition who have asked me a question on this issue, what are the Government's assessments of the future of Assicurazioni Generali, the fourth insurance company in the world, global player, but also one of the first Italian real estate owners, owner of 500 billion assets, of which 70 invested in Italian government bonds. In fact, in recent weeks, the hypothesis of an acquisition by Intesa Sanpaolo has manifested itself, an operation whose profile does not yet appear well defined and leaves open the doors to the risk of a possible stew operation, which could lead to the transfer of parts of the company abroad. I therefore ask you to know what initiatives the Commission intends to take to preserve Italianity and the integrity of the company and, above all, whether and how it intends to protect the occupation of the Italian employees of the group and the network of agents.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-02-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-755.ana.u51	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-02-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-755.ana.u52	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-02-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-755.ana.u53	DIVINE (LN-Aut). Minister, as you will know, the 6th Commission is examining Decree-Law No 237 of 2016, which saves the Monte dei Paschi di Siena, following the failure of the market operation which provided for the capital increase also through the voluntary conversion of subordinated securities into shares. The decree-law under discussion today, on the other hand, provides for the conversion no longer voluntary but forceful, then the state will provide for the reimbursement of the converted shares that will be acquired by the Treasury, refunding 75% of institutional investors and 100% of private investors. The cost of the transaction is 6.6 billion, but the ECB estimates that at least 8.8 billion would be needed to recapitalise MPS. In this context, however, we note a discrimination between the holders of the Monte dei Paschi di Siena securities and those of the other banks, such as CariChieti, Banca Etruria, Banca Marche and Carige, for which instead it was planned to unpack each credit institution into two banks, the allocation of profits to new banks and the suffering in the bad bank that would group all losses. This transaction involved 140,000 savers, who were indemnified at 80% of the purchase value of securities, but with both capital and income limits. There are then 200,000 savers of Veneto bank and Banca Popolare di Vicenza, who are still treated differently and, indeed, are waiting for a legislative measure to know what their fate will be. Mr. Minister, our doubt is legitimate at this point. We see a government imbalance in favour of categories of savers geographically and politically close to him. My question is what you intend to do, Minister, in order to restore the substantial equality, as provided for in Article 3 of the Constitution, of all saver citizens, for whom the Government, on the other hand, has provided for unequal types of refreshment.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-02-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-755.ana.u54	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-02-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-755.ana.u55	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-02-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-755.ana.u56	BULGARRELLI (M5S). Minister, at European level, with regard to measures relating to banking supervision, with particular reference to the comprehensive capital adequacy regime, what action does it intend to take to ensure that credit risk and market risk are given a fair weight? Indeed, it is clear that overestimating credit risk provides a health framework for Italian credit institutions which is worse than real, despite the fact that there is a high value of the credit claims that have deteriorated in the balance sheets of the credit institutions themselves. This ends with further damaging our credit system both in terms of credit ratings and in terms of asset recovery measures taken. It is also clear that this is for the benefit of credit institutions, such as Germany, which have billions of euros of financial derivatives in their balance sheets (even if considered toxic for almost 42%), whose presence would draw a very different picture of the capital soundness of German banks if the market risk were attributed a greater weight.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-02-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-755.ana.u57	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-02-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-755.ana.u58	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-02-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-755.ana.u59	Mr Barani (ALA-SCLP). Minister, the optimism of will is a precious thing, but on condition that it does not overdo it. The situation of Italian banks is less solid than is expected. We have four institutions - MPS, the two Venetian banks and Carige - that are in trouble. Unicredit, the second Italian group, is struggling with a dramatic increase in capital. There are not entirely clear maneuvers that concern Mediobanca, which is the gateway for the control of the Generals and this was also mentioned by Senator Russo just now. Then there is the whole theme of non-performing loans. In the documents of his own Ministry, bank sufferings are ciphered, in June 2016, in 121 billion, equal to about 21 percent of the credits paid out. Half of it comes from the crisis of the building sector and of the constructions. It is also worth considering the side effect of the measures taken by the Monti Government, the high university professor of Bocconi, when the infamous taxation on the house was introduced, whose macroeconomic consequences were completely underestimated. As you can see from these few data, it will not be easy to figure it out. I believe that Parliament - the great absentee on such important issues - must, in turn, act as a contrition. Already in 2014 the IMF report on financial stability had launched its alarm cry on an increasingly less sustainable situation, as our country was placed at the top of the risk pyramid. On these issues, therefore, we will all have to reflect on the necessary corrective measures. For too long we have left, exclusively, the management of such an important sector to CONSOB and the Bank of Italy, which certainly must remain autonomous in the operation. This, however, cannot mean anarchy without any kind of control. I hope that the Committee of Inquiry, set up by numerous legislative proposals, will soon be set up to deal with the problems which are not only of a financial nature but also of an institutional nature, in order to implement Article 47 of the Constitution, which - I would like to remind you - gives the Republic the task of protecting savings.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-02-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-755.ana.u60	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-02-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-755.ana.u61	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-02-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-755.ana.u62	GIOVANARDI (GAL (GS, PPI, M, Id, E-E, MPL)). Minister, I have a hundred BPER shares worth about 500 euros and until two years ago I was able to participate in the assembly where an action attributed the right to vote. There have also been conventions with 31,000 voters. The last of the old regime was in November when more than 5,000 people voted. The Government with a decree-law, then converted into law, of authority transformed it into a public limited company. Now capital is worth and there is a transitional clause that provides that for a short time you can get up to 5% of shares to spend in the assembly. At the end of this short term clause, anyone coming from Asia, Africa, America or Japan can buy on the basis of a matter of census. A centuries-old tradition of democracy, popular participation and roots in the territory has been removed. The question, reiterated also in an amendment on a bill submitted to the Senate, is whether the Government intends to accept that this limit of 5%, already existing in Unicredit, is maintained in order to avoid climbing that cancel democracy, participation, rooting on the territory and to avoid putting the bank at the mercy of those who arrive with huge capital. The question is very precise: do we want to allow, in line with the autonomy granted to banks, which have become public limited companies, to put in the statute the limit of 5% to avoid climbing and that, in a few years, we cry for the fact that another precious Italian experience has been cancelled and ended up in the hands of people who do not care at all about the Italian economy?
ParlaMint-IT_2017-02-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-755.ana.u63	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-02-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-755.ana.u64	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-02-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-755.ana.u65	D'ALI' (FI-PdL XVII). Minister, the Monte dei Paschi di Siena in recent days has placed bonds for 7 billion euros on the market, using the State guarantee issued pursuant to Decree-Law of 23 December 2016 n. 237. Apart from the fact that a decree-law was used before its conversion into law in Parliament - and this is not the maximum of elegance in relations between the Government and Parliament - we would like to know when the procedure of application to the Government provided for by the same decree-law has been activated, whether all authorisations and third-party assessments, i.e. from external bodies, provided for by the same bill before the granting of the guarantee and, finally, mainly, what is the risk burden estimated at the expense of the State, in the light of the guarantee issued that should cover 30% of the capital and 30% of the interest, and what affects this guarantee, on the fund of 20 billion euros established by the same decree-law. I hope that he will not give me the answer already contained in the accompanying technical report, which gives absolutely unbelievable figures.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-02-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-755.ana.u66	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-02-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-755.ana.u67	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-02-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-755.ana.u68	BONFRISCO (CoR). Minister, if we were not absolutely certain of your good faith, we would say that this Government, on the economic and banking front, has put it all in to put in trouble our banking system itself, starting from those rules that once again, as you see, are the instrument to weaken, to break our country. Senator Bulgarelli mentioned it first: how did we make our particular fragility look, linked to the fact that many of our banks hold a significant amount of government bonds, making them look at as, if not worse, other reckless and speculative financial securities, such as derivatives, which other European banks have to a greater extent than our own? Our banks, in fact, on this front, thank God, were not as bad as Deutsche Bank. We, however, have done everything to put that banking system in difficulty and a decree has been issued that has forced the transformation of popular banks into public limited companies to open the door to all kinds of speculation. Today the Italian justice has stopped you, considering that decree unconstitutional - soon we will have the decision of the Constitutional Court in this regard - and above all contrary to that article 47 with which the Constitution indicates us in the defense of savings one of the elements of real economic democracy, which then makes the difference between the countries that defend their economic and financial interest and those that instead sell it to others. What measures do you intend to take today, Minister, to recover this damage? Similarly, on the public accounts front, today it is up to you to recover the damage of the Renzi Government. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I call Mr Padoan, Minister for Economic Affairs and Finance, together.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-02-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-755.ana.u69	Madam President, the questions are very varied, therefore, rather than giving a single cumulative answer, I will try (and I apologise for any unintentional omissions) to answer each one within the time allowed, in accordance with the order in which the questions were asked. Senator Russo has asked two questions to answer which I will try to be very synthetic because they are complex issues. Firstly, the European bad bank is an idea just put on the table by the Director-General of EBA, Enria. The principle is an interesting idea but, as usual in these cases, it is the details that need to be examined. In general, I would say that this is a further attempt, which I personally appreciate, to introduce a vision of risk sharing into monetary and banking union and therefore, of course, the feasibility of this will have to be verified. We're still in the early stages. I expect this issue to be put to the attention of European bodies, including Ecofin sooner or later. With reference to the second question you put about General Insurances, which are obviously a private institution, I confirm that the Government very carefully observes the activity of Italian financial institutions so important, looking, at the same time, both to the Italianity of these institutions, and to their ability to have a profitable international activity. These two things are absolutely not at odds, which I believe - indeed - they consolidate each other. Senator Divina - if I understood the question well - quoted different treatments among savers regarding critical situations of banks. In particular, the cases of Monte dei Paschi di Siena, the known four banks and the two Venetian banks were cited, claiming that the savers had a different treatment. The treatment is different because different is the condition in which it was due - or was deemed - to resort to forms of compensation of savers. Monte dei Paschi di Siena is a profitable bank on the market; the four banks have been in a situation of resolution (so they are not banks on the market); in turn, the two banks in Veneto have still different situations. Therefore, it is not possible to make a millimetric comparison between these systems because they reflect regulations and response margins - although there are and it is important that there are - between them different. Senator Bulgarelli raised a complex issue concerning the ability of the overall supervision of financial and banking activities in Europe, with the question of a greater balance between market risk and credit risk. It is a principle that I agree with, but it would be a question of getting into the details. I simply recall that this is a field on which supervisory authorities and not governments must give answers, although certainly European governments, including Italian governments, are part of the debate with a position aimed at rebalancing the different risk assessment. This is intertwined with what I mentioned before the debate on risk reduction measures towards risk sharing measures. The Italian position remains that of the need to have progress on both fronts and, not as happens in other countries and especially in Germany, thinking above all of preferring the reduction of risk. Senator Barani has addressed to me very extensive and extensive observations. Frankly, I did not understand exactly what the question was and, therefore, I allow myself to reply simply with a few comments reflecting the written text that I received. State intervention in banking matters is increasingly having an impact and impact. The recent measures introduced by the Government and approved by Parliament have to do with the management of systemic effects and the need to address the possible contagion position, but also the need to protect savers. One of the key issues is to draw responses that can take account of these aspects simultaneously. Of course, all this goes hand in hand with measures to protect the taxpayer, where public resources must necessarily be used to intervene in difficult or crisis situations. Senator Giovanardi raised a very specific question, that is - if I understood correctly - whether it is not appropriate to extend and make permanent the transitional rule relating to popular banks, beyond the twenty-four months laid down by law. In my opinion, the permanence of this rule would undermine the spirit of the reform of the popular banks, which is to transform their nature in order to make their capacity for capitalization and market operation greater in a context in which the structure is clearly different. Therefore, I do not think that this option should be extended on a permanent basis, even if I remember - it is a well-known fact - that nothing prevents the banks from deciding on the maintenance of the limit to the right to vote after the 24 months with the majorities provided for in the statutory amendments. Senator D'Alì asked specific questions about the issues related to the Mount of the Paschi, in particular regarding risk guarantee measures made available recently. The question is timely and I will try to be as punctual in the answer. Monte dei Paschi applied for the guarantee on 23 December 2016, ECB and Banca d'Italia issued certificates and assessments between 23 and 27 December, the European Commission took a positive decision on 29 December and the concession decree was finalised on 20 January. With regard to the specific assessment of the risk burden, Senator D'Alì asks that no repetition be made which he considers unrealistic. So I don't repeat numbers, I just say that the expected cost for each guarantee issued depends on the probability of insolvency of the bank and the expected loss in the event of insolvency. However, the expected cost is negligible. Obviously this means that a case-by-case assessment must be made, making assumptions about the probability of the bank's possible insolvency. Senator Bonfrisco finally asked me a question that is in some way similar or close to the question posed by Senator Giovanardi, asking in fact to go back on the reform of the popular banks, which I personally consider very important. My answer is therefore that we have different views on the effectiveness, validity and goodness of this reform. PRESIDENT. - The debate is They now have the power to answer the questions, for one minute each.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-02-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-755.ana.u70	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-02-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-755.ana.u71	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-02-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-755.ana.u72	Mr Russo (PD). I thank the Minister for his reply. I really believe that the proper functioning of the financial instruments is a prerequisite for the well-being of families, businesses and the State. That is why I believe it is necessary to accompany this Government's commitment to ensure that, at European and global level, the rules are increasingly fair and supportive. I was pleased with the reference, repeated several times, to the sharing of risk regarding the bad bank, also to remind our country that finance is at the service of citizens and that never can run the opposite risk. As far as Generali is concerned, I repeat that there is no intention on the part of the policy to interfere with market operations and that, on the contrary, many of us are absolutely convinced that European and global dimensions can also allow companies born in our country to compete at the best. What is important to us is to reiterate that politics must ensure that operations such as those we are talking about always go in the direction of creating value, social value, economic value and I believe it is up to all of us to ensure that this does not become an opportunity to pursue the interests of the few, but instead goes in the direction of strengthening the real economy and the interest of small savers.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-02-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-755.ana.u73	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-02-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-755.ana.u74	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-02-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-755.ana.u75	DIVINE (LN-Aut). Minister, we know that the situations are different, but for a pensioner, in whatever latitude of the country, having lost all the liquidation, what he had and the savings, are objectively identical situations, but they are to be treated differently. I take this opportunity to make two points about responsibility. Your government, Minister, has established, for example, that if a janitor stamps the card and then goes for a walk on the street, he can be fired in the trunk. No one is going to protect the absenteeists; however, is it possible for bank administrators to empty pockets at hundreds of thousands of savers, force the state to make maneuvers like what we are doing (which is worth 20 billion, six maneuvers of what Europe is asking of us at the moment) to take pharaonic, billionaire liquidations, and no one claims to do an action of responsibility? The government's bumping up. At least we freeze these liquidations and verify the responsibilities, because then in this country always pays Pants.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-02-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-755.ana.u76	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-02-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-755.ana.u77	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-02-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-755.ana.u78	BULGARRELLI (M5S). Mr Minister, I am obviously not satisfied with your reply, although you too agree with what I said. I think it is unthinkable that governments will not put pressure on those who then go to write the macro-prudential elements for bank accounts, unless there is a truly great short-sightedness of governments, since the financial system risks imploding, and shortly. We must, therefore, do something that goes well beyond mere pressure; we must exert decisive pressure, also because all these arguments seem always disconnected from everyday life, if I implode the financial system, and therefore all banking systems, it is the life of the people who are at stake, always that. That is why these are not subjects that we cannot take on board. You have to take care of it because then people, as always, have no food. We are constantly seeing poverty rising and not seeing measures that are actually going to restore this situation.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-02-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-755.ana.u79	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-02-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-755.ana.u80	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-02-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-755.ana.u81	Mr Barani (ALA-SCLP). Minister, we can only agree that the 60 billion of bank suffering comes from the Monti Government, when it has made that notorious house taxation, which is why that professor must also be rejected from a school point of view. We cannot but agree that for too long we have left exclusively the management of a sector, the banking sector, so vital for the development of the Italian economy and society, in the hands of independent authorities such as CONSOB and the Bank of Italy, that such must remain in daily operation; but independence cannot be exchanged for the absence of any control, albeit not invasive, and then perhaps reward those presidents and make them Presidents of the Council or perhaps Presidents of the Republic. We cannot, however, fail to agree with the other point, namely that the infamous establishment of the Commission of Inquiry - wanted by all - will not be done because we want to take the shortcut of the early elections to prevent this particular point from being investigated.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-02-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-755.ana.u82	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-02-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-755.ana.u83	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-02-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-755.ana.u84	GIOVANARDI (GAL (GS, PPI, M, Id, E-E, MPL)). Minister, I would remind you that agriculture, crafts, commerce and industry have prospered precisely with a model of bank - first in Modena, then in Emilia and then throughout Italy - rooted in the territory, which had in mind to use savings for economic development. Now, however, you are opening the way to financial speculation, which is not concerned with development. We have seen many examples, unfortunately, of financial robbery. However, I take it at your word. You have said - and you have committed yourself to Parliament and the country - that, even if by law we do not change the existing legislation, in their respective autonomy, the people transformed into SpA can put in their statute what already provided for in the Statute of Unicredit, that is, set a limit, for example, 5%, to the climbing of the bank itself. You have said that and I hope that your words correspond to truth with regard to our order and the possibility of proceeding in this direction.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-02-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-755.ana.u85	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-02-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-755.ana.u86	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-02-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-755.ana.u87	D'ALI' (FI-PdL XVII). Mr. Minister, more than dissatisfied, I am extremely concerned about your assessment. If a bank needs the state guarantee in order to place its bonds, it is clear that it does not have the confidence of the market. The risk associated with that guarantee, therefore, cannot be calculated as an ordinary guarantee. Any undertaking that grants guarantees to others in order to facilitate their liquidity must put a large fund in its accounts to cover that risk and the guarantee it has given. If the considerations you have made are true, which are then in line with those contained in the so-called General Accounting Report, we must consider that we are at a risk of about 100 billion bonds to be issued with these parameters; therefore, well beyond the ceiling of 20 billion established by Parliament. It is good, then, for Parliament and the Italians to know that that decree does not authorize only 20 billion actions for intervention on banks - Montepaschi will be one of those - which are not in a state of failure but with one foot from here and one foot from there. It is good for Parliament and the Italians to know that this risk is about 120 billion, and this has not been clarified explicitly in Parliament. If it had been clarified explicitly, I do not know whether it could have been in a position to allow such use of the public accounts, among other things, to be entirely borne by the debt.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-02-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-755.ana.u88	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-02-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-755.ana.u89	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-02-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-755.ana.u90	BONFRISCO (CoR). Minister, I'm sure you don't think we're fools, so you know that we know perfectly well the difference in treatment between the three banks, the ones you photographed so well before. In fact, depending on how a bank's crisis is dealt with, then the bank's savers are dealt with. And that's what happened. We are convinced that in the case of the Monte dei Paschi di Siena there has been a special attention of the Government, moreover with a President of the Council who until a few months before invited the Italians to buy the shares of the Monte dei Paschi. Today you remedy the umpteenth damage of the Renzi Government with a measure that we hope will be sufficient, but that we hope can also be the reference point for other situations. And we are not content with the excuse that the case of a resolution is different from that of a crisis that is assisted by an Atlas fund that already has great fragility. My disappointment is linked to the fact that I know that we have different opinions, Minister. I basically believe in the role of credit that on the territories, through the different articulations, from large banks to small banks, from cooperatives to SpA, can support development. Instead, you believe in a role of finance that has so far brought only devastation in the economy, not only Italian. I hope that you can now be in a position to address differently the issue of credit to our families, that leverage available to development, not pure and simple finance. Article 47 of the Constitution invites us to protect savings and I signal to you one last very important aspect, that is the postal savings that Italian Posts collect, through a confidence of Italians that I would never want to be questioned by a tendency to financial speculation that instead I see dangerously growing.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-02-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-755.ana.u91	The question-time questions on the agenda are thus exhausted. I thank Minister Padoan for his helpfulness and all the interrogations.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-02-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-755.ana.u92	The motions, questions and questions received by the Presidency will be published in Annex B to today's report.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-02-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-755.ana.u93	The Senate will meet again in public session on Tuesday 7 February, at 4.30 p.m., with the following agenda: (See agenda) The sitting was closed at 5.00 p.m.
