ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-773.ana.u1	The sitting is open [[9:34 a.m. General applause for the Presidency.]] Thank you. Thank you all for your trust. I'm sure we'll do a good job together. The Minutes shall be read. Mr Amati, secretary, read the Minutes of the afternoon sitting of the previous day.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-773.ana.u2	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-773.ana.u3	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-773.ana.u4	COMAROLI (LN-Aut). Mr President, I would like to ask for the vote on the Minutes, subject to a quorum check. Verification of quorum
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-773.ana.u5	I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators, by electronic procedure. (The request is supported). I therefore call on the senators to make their presence known by electronic means. (Follows the quorum check.) The Senate has a quorum. Resumption of the debate on the Minutes I put the Minutes to the vote. It's approved.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-773.ana.u6	The list of senators on leave and absent on assignment received from the Senate, as well as further communications to the Assembly, will be published in Annex B to today's Minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-773.ana.u7	I would warn you that qualified votes can be taken in the course of today's sitting by electronic means. Therefore, from this moment the period of 20 minutes from the notice provided for in Article 119, paragraph 1 of the Regulation (9:38 hours) begins.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-773.ana.u8	The next item is the continuation of the debate on draft law Nos. 2583, already approved by the Chamber of Deputies, and 1295. I would remind you that yesterday afternoon's sitting was attended by the replies of the rapporteur and the representative of the Government. I would remind you that Articles 1 to 4 have been adopted and that the examination of the amendments and agendas presented in Article 5 has begun. We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 5,109.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-773.ana.u9	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-773.ana.u10	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-773.ana.u11	MALAN (FI-PdL XVII). Madam President, first of all, I wish you every success and congratulations on your new position. Amendment 5.109 is one of the many amendments which attempt to bring this measure back to the sense and reasonableness of reality. If history were studied (use not by chance the hypothetical period), it would be discovered that the greatest misfortunes were due more often to the good intentions applied in a wretched way than to the bad intentions put in place directly. In this case, we have a typical example of good intentions (certainly from many, at least I hope) implemented in the way we have already illustrated yesterday. With this bill it is essentially established that anyone who comes to Italy (without documents, of course) and declares that he is less than eighteen years old will be able to stay in our country as long as he wants and will be welcomed, maintained, educated and cared for: the thing is due in some cases, but it is ruinous if addressed to everyone. Yesterday we recalled that foreign minors in Italy have been guilty (I remember that we are talking only about that small percentage of the total number of crimes committed in our country, whose authors are identified by justice) of 17,000 crimes, including 32 murders, 268 sexual violence, 1,801 crimes committed even in the centres of first reception. Among the minors, or rather, among the false minors who arrived in Italy, there was that Amri, who arrived in Sicily when he had already turned eighteen years of age who, declaring that he had less, was welcomed. He was then sentenced to four years for the crimes he committed in the first reception center, he committed several other crimes in our country, and then moved to Germany in 2015, where he was involved in drug trafficking. He then reached the climax of his career as a "refugee helpless minor," killing 12 people in Berlin and surviving. Later, in the course of an arrest operation, he was killed by our law enforcement forces. Well, there are the Amri and there are children worthy of all our care; this law makes no distinction, indeed, the distinction that makes is that by accepting indiscriminately all those who arrive in our country by illegal means, it will take away space for people who may not be in extreme need (but perhaps yes), for those who follow the rules, for those who submit regular asylum applications, for those who ask to come to our country for the most peaceful, normal and even profitable reasons for our country, while we leave full space for those who come to us with any intention. Nowhere in this law is there a mechanism that puts someone in charge of the responsibility to oppose and question the affirmation of a foreigner who arrives in our country - even a non-foreign, as long as he says he is - and declares that he is less than eighteen years old. There's no guarantee. The only point where this draft law examines this hypothesis is where it is said that, where the doubt remains, it is still considered underage. Therefore, of course, this gentleman will say that he is underage, he will insist, he will invent a beautiful date of birth after March 1994, and the game is done. It will be borne by the Italian State; it will cost, on average, to be prudent, 2,200 euros per month the limited period in which it will remain in Italy. This - I repeat - is at best the case. All this when our families, who have children, receive from the State less than the VAT that they pay on the articles they have to buy for their child. And then it is considered strange, very strange, the fact that there is a birthday; the family is "massacred", receives no kind of help, the births are from year to year the lowest in history. In 2015 there were less born than in the rest of our country's history, since 1861, not since 1946. In 2016 this record was further beaten; of course, there is a social evolution, there is an evolution of the way of living the family, but above all a great uncertainty in the future. Other countries - developed countries of Western Europe and North America - that help the family or, at least, encourage it, have a birth rate twice ours. Here, however, money for these people is found. You have even extended the so-called baby bonus to non-EUs who will therefore take a large part of the mail because they fall within the parameters of low income and so on. This is the measure that we are examining and on which the government majority is supported by the 5 Star Movement, disciplined in voting exactly according to the indications of the Government, evidently by its independent decision (I am not saying that it entered the government area, but that it fully supports it). The Forza Italia Group, like the Northern League, is working to maintain its logical parts for the reception of children who are in need and of the people actually persecuted. Here, on the contrary, we want to extend the welcome to anyone, in years in which - I repeat - we record in our country the record of the decline of births and the boom of irregular entrances through the arrival of boats, where to deserve the welcome are only the few children present, who are victims. The measure under consideration will bring even more boats, because in fact this mode is encouraged. Here's the weird idea why these gentlemen wouldn't know what we're doing while they know it. When I speak of gentlemen, I am referring to the hullists and traffickers of human goods, who collect money from people who want to come to Italy and who make sure that there are dead (despite our ships arriving almost on the Libyan coast) so that we can talk about emergency and their business can continue. It is an indecent thing, which increases the number of deaths and the weight on our country. Continuing this way, we will end up giving an indecent welcome even to those who have the titles to be welcomed.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-773.ana.u12	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-773.ana.u13	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-773.ana.u14	SANTANGELO (M5S). We call for the vote to be taken by simultaneous ballot by electronic means.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-773.ana.u15	I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). Pending the expiry of twenty minutes from the notice referred to in Article 119 (1) of the Rules of Procedure, I suspend the sitting until 9:58 a.m. (The sitting was suspended at 9.49 a.m. and resumed at 9.58 a.m.) I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 5.109, tabled by Senators Calderoli and Volpi. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 5.7.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-773.ana.u16	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-773.ana.u17	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-773.ana.u18	MARIN (FI-PdL XVII). Madam President, I am of course referring to what the Forza Italia Group is doing in relation to Article 5, which is the cornerstone of the measure we are examining. What is required with this amendment? I do not understand why, in a measure that - I repeat - has already been amended and will therefore return to the House, the majority must - let me say the word - be stubborn in not recognizing some suggestions and indications that are absolutely transparent, simple and positive. Amendment 5.7 - but then I would like to add something else - calls for the presence of multidisciplinary and qualified staff of hospital companies when the child is accepted. More precisely, it is not said not to welcome the child, but to welcome him by guaranteeing prepared multidisciplinary staff. We should have a guarantee from the staff who are employed, for example, in the Tuscan, Venetian, Bells or Ligurian ASLs: we must be convinced that our hospital companies and the territorial units of the hospital companies work well and work well, otherwise we must also work on this aspect. We call for this qualified staff to be used and not to leave these activities entirely in the hands of private individuals, so cooperatives, i.e. those who perhaps work well, but who - as unfortunately in all professions - also show negative examples. Otherwise, it is wrong to think about this provision; instead, we want to continue to think well. One wonders, then: why do you want to use the professionals of cooperatives and these host houses instead of resorting to the professionals of the public employment already paid by all Italians? In addition to all this, there are other issues: there are cultural differences between us, but here we are talking about family reunification. Do we want to be sure that the minor, or rather the presumed minor, to whom we want to guarantee family reunification is not twenty years old? Do we always travel within the boundaries of legality and legitimacy or, since the proposal comes from Forza Italia, from the center-right, from opposition groups do we believe that it must be rejected by force? It is common sense that should require us to vote on these amendments, allowing us to make a contribution to the measures under consideration. You are preventing us from making a contribution, and these are common sense amendments. Why is it wrong to say that in our hospital companies and in the social and territorial units of ASL there is already staff (psychologists, doctors and anything else) paid with public money, from the taxes of Italians? No, you want this job done by cooperative psychologists. It is not logical; there is nothing logical, and I repeat that this issue does not only concern this aspect. We will be able to confront each other on the issue of family reunification and we will certainly clash with the ius soli on which we have completely different ideas, but it is not acceptable that you do not vote on common sense amendments. It is a wall against a wall that is culturally wrong to those who talk about socialism. We continue to urge the majority to read carefully our amendments and those of the other opposition groups: if you did, you would see that there is absolutely no polemical spirit, but a constructive spirit. This provision has a meaning for everyone - when we talk about children, it is clear that it is so - but it cannot be built culturally and with ideology, otherwise it becomes a different measure. That is why we invite you to vote on our amendments once again. [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-773.ana.u19	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-773.ana.u20	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-773.ana.u21	VOLPI (LN-Aut). Madam President, first of all, I wish you every success. We support this amendment, because in fact it repeats what we have already tried to explain. The meaning of this amendment, in my opinion, is due to some concepts: fairness with respect to the children who ask for protection; uniformity because, as we explained yesterday, inevitably inventing different formulas and actors does not have the third party of an ASL; completeness of the procedure thanks to specific units that have all the ability to achieve the objective of verifying the situation of the subject, as far as possible, from the socio-sanitary, psychological and support point of view. We believe that these are common sense amendments. At the end of the day, we are simply asking to be able to avoid a confusion of actors who are not third parties in the possible assessment of these characteristics of the child. I insist and will insist on one aspect: I fear that if you do not specify some passages considering the position of the minor also from a third point of view will open wide disputes. All children must be given the same treatment. As we pointed out yesterday, the expression "where possible" cannot exist, because "where possible" already becomes a discriminatory element compared to treatment. But not only that: there are responsibilities that unfortunately could also fall on temporary guardians. In fact, in the immediacy of the relationship with the boy there is the need to identify the temporary guardian. At that time, a process of verification that was not the same for all would obviously have a bearing on the guardian's own responsibility. There are therefore three problems: the treatment is not the same for all and we ask that it be through ASL; we ask that the formula of homogeneity of the verification be guaranteed and, in case this passage is not understood, we also worry about the repercussions, both on the operators, both on the boys, and on the temporary guardians. Once it was said that the law must be general and abstract; it should be more so in this case, speaking of rights. If that were not the case, we ourselves would find ourselves enacting a law that is discriminatory: one boy has the possibility to receive a certain type of support and another does not. It is also difficult to accept - and I am referring to what is contained in this article - that everything can fall on the ability and good will of the local authority to organize the reception even in the most specific and technical details. But why not use ASL? I'm already at your disposal. Nor do I repeat the comment that Mr Marin made earlier, which is acceptable and obvious, on costs. If I had to make a cost-related argument, in fact, I would ask myself - as I said yesterday - how can there be an evaluation of the same if the paths are different and if only some have options and subjects that in other cases there are not. Doing this third-party operation means neutralizing the responsibility, even economic, of the local authority. The ASL is there, it exists, it has the ability to make available a multidisciplinary professional: we use this subject and solve the problems of fairness, any litigation and costs.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-773.ana.u22	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-773.ana.u23	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-773.ana.u24	SANTANGELO (M5S). We call for simultaneous ballots to be carried out by electronic means.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-773.ana.u25	I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous vote on Amendment 5.7 tabled by Senator Malan. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B).
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-773.ana.u26	There is a representation of the diplomatic corps of the Republic of Guinea-Bissau, which I greet. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-773.ana.u27	We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 5.11.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-773.ana.u28	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-773.ana.u29	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-773.ana.u30	Mr Rizzotti (FI-PdL XVII). Madam President, I will certainly vote in favour of amendment 5.11, of which I am co-signatory, which would like to specify an aspect which is not sufficiently taken into account in this draft law: the determination of the child's age in doubtful cases. It is clear that doubtful cases are not children of small age, but are children or adults who may refuse to undergo diagnostic tests. Now, in this article it is also written that the socio-sanitary assessment of the age must be carried out in a suitable environment and that socio-sanitary examinations must not be carried out that could compromise the psycho-physical state of the person. I believe that a dental overview or an x-ray of the ulna or radio cannot compromise the psycho-physical state; but the minor or his guardian may refuse to undergo these investigations. I would like to remind the House that we are about to adopt a bill that has unfortunately been drawn up in this way, without accepting any improvement dictated by the common sense and applicability of this law. We certainly support the idea of protecting unaccompanied minors, but not in this way. Just this morning, the newspaper "La Stampa" headlines: "European Union, faster returns for children." The article says: "States must increase the return of migrants who are not entitled to asylum, including and above all unaccompanied minors. The Recommendation, which will be approved today by the European Commission, calls on Parliament and the countries to remove the constraints that prevent the return of minors, because "reunion with the family of origin is in their interest." The draft text (...) calls on governments to intervene "by 1 June" in order to remove all obstacles to return. Now, I believe that not only are we going to do something that is not required of us by Europe (as we are told so many times in the measures), but that goes against exactly what will be the European Commission's directive in force since 1 June. I would like to ask the House to consider this point. [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-773.ana.u31	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-773.ana.u32	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-773.ana.u33	CANDIANI (LN-Aut). Madam President, this amendment is quite singular (and we will of course vote in favour of it, because that can only be the case) because it should be seen as a positive element in improving the measure. I remind the rapporteur and the Government that in it it is explicitly and simply said that the qualified staff referred to in paragraph 1, under the responsibility of the coordinator responsible for the first reception center, has the duty to report the cases in which it is doubtful the said minor age. Now, it is certainly appropriate to include an element of responsibility in a system which, on the other hand, is totally irresponsible. Then we know how it ends: it's a barrel discharge. In fact, as someone who sat here years ago used to say, thinking wrong is a sin, but it is often right. You see, Madam President, by linking the amendment to Article 5 of the draft law, we can safely and easily see that the staff will be assisted, where possible, by organisations, bodies or associations with proven and specific experience in the protection of minors. I would never want us to venture for the umpteenth time towards the umpteenth cooperative, that perhaps, as unfortunately we are seeing in these hours, wins the contract with CONSIP after having properly adjusted it. Here again I express my concerns about what is emerging from the investigations in these hours: first Romeo arrested, then the new investigations on Bocchino that widen, then a Tuscan choreographer equally investigated and in these hours searched. I don't know how far it'll go, if we get to Rignano or we stop first. But this certainly describes a system that we want defeated at the origin. The responsibility that is claimed by this amendment is fundamental, because those who are dealing with these children must respond and must be placed in the responsibility to report if the child before us - as we said yesterday - is not a minor. Otherwise, make it clear that you are simply building a mechanism to guarantee new turnover to cooperatives. So much so that these win contracts on CONSIP because they pay "bribes" to the executives of CONSIP, as we have seen in these hours with Romeo and how it is emerging from the investigations.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-773.ana.u34	I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of Amendment 5.11 tabled by Senators Malan and Rizzotti. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 5.10, which is identical to Amendment 5.112.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-773.ana.u35	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-773.ana.u36	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-773.ana.u37	MALAN (FI-PdL XVII). Madam President, I have a brief explanation of vote in favour. Not for a matter of common sense, but to make this measure work and make some sense, it is proposed, with this amendment, that, if there is a guardian, if there is someone who is responsible for this child, then that's okay. Otherwise, the temporary guardian coincides with the first reception center. This gives a certain legal framework and, consequently, paragraph 9 deletes the words "where appointed" because the guardian is there. This would be a greater guarantee of compliance with the law. It should be a greater guarantee for the rights of the child, because it is supposed that those responsible for the first reception centres are not criminals. However, it has been said against, and we do not understand why. Probably for the very reason that I have already set out yesterday, namely that, as this is a common sense amendment, if it were to pass, it would show more the madness of the whole system. And then we try to maintain the uniformity of a totally crazy bill, totally irrational, but seriously harmful to our country.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-773.ana.u38	I would like to refer to the nominal vote by simultaneous vote on Amendment 5.20 tabled by Senator Malan, identical to Amendment 5.12 tabled by Senators Calderoli and Volpi. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 5.10 (text 2)
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-773.ana.u39	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-773.ana.u40	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-773.ana.u41	VOLPI (LN-Aut). Madam President, this amendment, which we are about to vote on, also speaks of responsibility, as Mr Candiani said earlier. We are trying to put firm points on figures who have some responsibilities. It is said that the staff has a duty to report it. But it is obvious that someone must take the task of identifying very clearly who is the person who, in doubt, activates that procedure of further verification with respect to the age of the child. We have said that the more fake minors there are, the less quality and options for true children who need reception. Madam President, I would like to make a comment on responsibility. I don't want to argue, but it's a matter that struck me personally. It's not about minors, it's about responsibility. I don't know how many of you, but I think a lot of people have been to one of the big reception centers that is often seen on the news. It happened to me last year to visit a famous center in Sicily, which, by the way, now seems to me that it also has some small problem of legality. Madam President, I was impressed. Not if you remember the old movie "1997": Escape from New York, with the character of Jena Plissken, with the wall dividing one world from another. I entered, not out of clamor but because of my desire for knowledge, in a place where there was absolutely another world: an autonomous market, I had confirmation from the operators that there are even spaces with harlots. I therefore believe that the responsibility of those who manage structures of this kind is fundamental and becomes absolutely essential when there are places dedicated to these children. I wonder, in fact, if the idea of dereliction is what I saw in that center, which is also a former American base, and therefore very dignified, because it is composed of houses that used American soldiers stationed in that area; so I am not talking about dilapidated environments, but the concept of "without law after the enclosure" must have leaders. I imagine that the identification of responsibility, including the identification of a doubt as to whether the child is really such, must be realized in the identification of one or more figures taking up this task. I heard some comments from colleagues about whom we share the dramatic tone. If it is not clear to the full who works, these children (now I really mean the little ones) are really at risk of falling into those dramatic channels for which they disappear. So it is not enough for me to know that there is reception; I want those who deal with it not to make false documents. In this sense the news of yesterday is not positive, because when we are even forced to move representatives from the consulates because they made money with false visas it is not nice. At least for this we must have the guarantee of the responsibility and quality of the operators, otherwise we run the risk that those poor children will disperse, perhaps with internal complicity, in situations that would be dramatic for adults, let alone for the children. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-773.ana.u42	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-773.ana.u43	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-773.ana.u44	SERRA (M5S). Madam President, I would like to say to the Presidency and the House that the responsibility for managing extraordinary reception centres (CAS) is first and foremost specifically at the head of the prefecture. If the prefecture does not control the associations to which it gives these CASs, clearly minors can be recognized; however, if the same prefecture and the police who deal with migration do not give orders to move these minors, nothing can be done. It is not the responsibility of the cooperative or associations [[Comments of Senator Volpi]] On the contrary, we must ensure that these associations and cooperatives are absolutely transparent, responsible and serious, but with controls that do not need to be included in this bill. In any case, when it is pointed out to the prefect the presence of minors in a CAS where they should not be, he has the responsibility to move them, as in fact has been done. We made reports in several CASs in Sassari and Cagliari and were moved and placed in places of protection. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-773.ana.u45	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-773.ana.u46	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-773.ana.u47	MARIN (FI-PdL XVII). Madam President, with Amendment 5.10 (text 2) the first signature of Senator Malan is only asked to add two very simple words: 'where necessary'. It seems to us to be a proposal of common sense. If it were just this amendment, it could have been discussed and perhaps it could have been said that we are neglecting the humanitarian aspect, but that is not the case. Article 5 is in fact a very comprehensive article, on which we have tabled a number of amendments, which have a meaning and a logic. That is why we are asking for two simple words to be added: 'where necessary'. I really cannot understand how adding these two simple terms could adversely affect the measure under consideration. Senator Rizzotti has just been reminded of what the European Union says about return and we could open a discussion about whether it is more appropriate for a child to be with parents or not. The European Union is asking us to make our return quick: it seems to me that 1 June is the date that was mentioned in the previous speech by our group's senator. Children must be with their parents, if that is possible. Do we have any doubts about that? I guess not. We are discussing a very important issue and we too must move forward step by step: I am, for example, aware of this decision of the European Union only this morning. I would ask my colleagues whether it is important to have brought it to the debate in this House, or whether we should pretend that none of this exists. I would therefore like to thank Senator Rizzotti for bringing this news from Europe to the debate of the House. However, since this comes from the Forza Italia Group, you choose not to talk about it. Frankly, it's illogical. I therefore ask you to give us the opportunity to contribute and to give everyone the opportunity to help improve a measure concerning children. The children are of everyone and the European Union is telling us that they are of everyone, but also that they must possibly return to their parents. We therefore propose to offer them humanitarian assistance where necessary, because there can also be the child who runs away from the parents and can happen also in our families. So is that son's good to bring him back to his family or leave him in a family community? I really don't understand why there's such a closure. That is why we ask that we vote for an amendment to this provision, which will return to the House of Deputies and subsequently to the Senate, and we, precisely because of the responsibility towards minors, will say exactly the same things. [[Applause from Senator Malan.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-773.ana.u48	I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 5.10 (text 2), tabled by Senators Malan and Rizzotti. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B).
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-773.ana.u49	On behalf of the Assembly, I greet the teachers and students of the State Professional Institute for Food and Wine Services and Hospitality in Soverato, in the province of Catanzaro, who are attending our work. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-773.ana.u50	We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 5.13
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-773.ana.u51	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-773.ana.u52	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-773.ana.u53	MALAN (FI-PdL XVII). Madam President, here too we are faced with a very unusual situation. Senator Rizzotti pointed out to us what a great daily newspaper has published today, namely that the European Union is calling for faster returns for minors. So the 'Europeanist' force proposing an amendment that is precisely implementing this directive - which will probably be adopted today and which will have to be operational by 1 June next - is the League. It is curious that the Europeanist force is the League and that the professed Europeanists, of the Democratic Party with annexed and connected, instead vote against. On the other hand, we were told yesterday that this bill is at the forefront of Europe, but in my opinion it is in the sense that no one is so crazy in Europe to approve such a measure, because we already have today all the immigrants who arrive across the Mediterranean and with the bill we are considering we will encourage others to come to Italy, knowing that whatever they do, even if they do not want, will remain in our country. This is a really crazy matter, and in this case Europeanists are the ones accused of being dangerous opponents of the European Union. It is in fact the League that proposes the amendment under consideration while the Democratic Party and the other forces, of government and not only, support the measure, which is anti-European, that is, it is contrary to what the European Union is asking today to do in the various countries, that is to make faster returns. Then it is not strange, if we vary these beautiful "vanguard" laws that go against what the European Union is deciding, that the other countries of the Union - for this and for 100 other good reasons - do not even remotely want to welcome the immigrants who come to us, as one or two years ago President Renzi had made us believe that we had made an agreement that they would all go abroad. If they've gone a hundred. These countries are right: we make rules that are the vanguard of madness, we issue rules at the same time as the decisions of the European Union that go against the decisions themselves and of course migrants are not accepted. We will keep them all and indeed, perhaps from other European countries will return to our country. Certainly in our country it is more difficult to find work, and we know very well, the young Italians know it very well whose unemployment rate is a record also this historian, but having assistance, maintenance, reception and soon citizenship it is obvious that they come to us. [[Applause from Senator Marin.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-773.ana.u54	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-773.ana.u55	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-773.ana.u56	CANDIANI (LN-Aut). Madam President, it is quite clear that the call made by Amendment 5.13 to the need for the function of the diplomatic-consolary authorities to be used is necessary and fundamental. In fact, we are really talking about a structured system. Did we realize that on the other side the boatmen organize the trips or not? Do you understand that or not? These are not, unfortunately for them, refugees who of their own will arrive across the Mediterranean; they are loaded on boats according to the needs of the cooperative market that is on this side, maybe the same ones that win then the CONSIP races, maybe the same ones that are then inquisited, maybe the same ones that then respond to the various Romeos and anything else until they reach who knows where, going up the Arno. We understand that there are "pizzini" that are sent to the other side with the indication of who is to be boarded. Even in the text of the measure you have included the fact that the intervention of the diplomatic-consular representative must not be requested in cases where the presumed minor has expressed the will to ask for international protection, or when a possible need for international protection emerges following the interview provided for in paragraph 1. It is clear that you have already written down what procedure must be followed in order to be automatically recognized as worthy of international protection, even by including the exclusion of the intervention of the consular authority when, in the interview, it should appear that there is a danger or difficulty in relations that may be political (we are talking about minors and in this case we would like to understand what we are referring to) and therefore the diplomatic-consular authority is not called into question, because there is a risk that international protection will be called into question. Everything seems very confusing and the amendment instead brings clarity because it contains the following clarification: "Also in order to experience in the shortest time the procedures to ascertain the presence of a family member, therefore a person next to an adult responsible for it" (we are talking about the minor) "of a designated guardian or to be designated or reception facilities in the State of origin for the purpose of return". In fact, this is also a path that must be completed and understood. If at the time of access to the request for international protection it is not equally clear that if at the end of the journey there is no recognition, on the other hand there is no deterrent effect, noting that this is not a country in which everyone can land, at this point I repeat that you are simply creating an opportunity for those who want to exploit these poor children for their own benefit, but certainly not a system of protection of the children themselves.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-773.ana.u57	I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 5.13 tabled by Senators Calderoli and Volpi. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 5.14 tabled by Senators Malan and Rizzotti. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 5.15.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-773.ana.u58	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-773.ana.u59	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-773.ana.u60	MARIN (FI-PdL XVII). Madam President, this amendment envisages adding, after the words 'diplomatic-consular authority', the following: 'and in support of this decision provides valid and well-founded reasons'. On this amendment, too, I ask you what a dispute might be based on. I think we should hear that the issue is not just about explaining why they say no - and it is not because we are positive - but in the fact that we should say yes, as is evident. If we put ourselves in the hands of the diplomatic-consular authority, we ask at least that it provide reasonable reasons for its decisions: or do we want to say no, why is everything okay with us? I would like to make a little political transition: just in these days and hours the majority boasts of an agreement that we will then see launched by the Minister of Interior Minniti with Libya, which among other things favors return. That agreement with Libya had done so by the Berlusconi Government, I think it has now been seen: then so that the flows were blocked and the arrivals were many less in those years, while we are facing an increase. However, let us remain on the subject of minors and let us not open up others, because later we will also see that political failure. So today we are talking about minors and we want to say that the diplomatic-consular authority must have no reason to say yes. I repeat my invitation to think about children: the ratio is that the children are with parents and families, it cannot be of the type "come here, wait for them to work, the homes-family and cooperatives" otherwise it comes from thinking badly about this provision and you can not fail to understand that it must be another spirit to move it. On the contrary, we also want to say that the diplomatic-consolary authorities must not attach reasonable grounds to support their decisions: let us not even talk about it then; here we take away the reason, it is said that in any case it goes in a certain way, while it cannot go in any way. If we put ourselves in the hands of the diplomatic-consular authority, there must be sound reasons for any decision, as is the case in all jobs and all stages of life: either we make a blindfolded decision (such as the monkeys reciting "I don't see, I don't hear, I don't speak") and we go in a random way or we ask the diplomatic-consular authority to provide valid reasons in support of the decisions it makes. It seems to me so obvious that it is obvious that the Forza Italia Group will be voting for a correct amendment by Senators Calderoli and Volpi.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-773.ana.u61	I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 5.15 tabled by Senators Calderoli and Volpi. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 5.16.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-773.ana.u62	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-773.ana.u63	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-773.ana.u64	MALAN (FI-PdL XVII). Madam President, first of all I would like to draw the attention - of the rapporteur and of the Government in particular - to a clarification: for a mistake in writing, the text of the amendment in question refers to the 'comma 1', but it was meant to say 'comma 3'. It would therefore say: "The initiatives referred to in paragraph 3, last period, may include and explain what it means. In paragraph 3, last sentence, it is written: The Ministry of Foreign Affairs and International Cooperation and the Ministry of the Interior shall promote appropriate initiatives, in agreement with the States concerned, in order to speed up the completion of the investigations referred to in this paragraph. Note well: not for repatriation, which asks us Europe, for charity, but to apply what this same bill says. Then, however, it is also said in this text that, if minors ask not to involve diplomatic-consolary authorities, at their simple request, they are not involved. But then what understandings are spoken of at the last period of paragraph 5? In the last period it is said that there may be agreements with the States concerned to better achieve the identification and acquisition of all data useful for the investigation, but note well that if minors are usually not considered capable of doing any action (a seventeen-year-old who perhaps already earns, for the strange cases of life, cannot open a bank account) we even give these gentlemen the opportunity to intervene in the relations between our state and their state. If we wanted to speak with the Tunisian Government, with the Algerian Government, with the Moroccan Government or with the Government of any other country from which these people come, the word of one who is said to be underage would suffice for this agreement not to be activated. The purpose of this amendment, therefore, is to ensure that within the text, which is still a wrong text, there is at least internal consistency. Since at the last period of this paragraph it is stated that agreements can be reached with the country concerned, it should at least be added that the word of these young (or so-called young) gentlemen does not apply when there is an agreement. The text states that if there is an agreement with Tunisia according to which all young people who come, say they come or are suspected that they come from that country can be identified in some way not already for the expulsion - because it is forbidden by this bill - but at least to know who they are, to know if there is already another Amri in grass that we grow in our nursery, just the word of a young boy who comes to Italy without knowing our language or our laws (except this one, which will know very well, because it is because of this law that will have come) for our country to fail to an agreement between the Italian Republic and the Tunisian Republic. Even if we work hard, one might not be able to write something crazier than this. I don't know what other hand, beyond those notes, is behind such crazy rules. Let us at least make sure that there is this glimmer of sense, so that the word of a so-called seventeen-year-old does not apply more than an agreement between Italy and another sovereign State, with which, if we establish an agreement, we will obviously have good relations. I would ask you, Madam President, to ask the rapporteur and the Government, in the light of this clarification on a point which I believe to be obvious, to review their opinion. I'm afraid they won't, given the perspective that has been adopted so far, but let's not limit Providence. [[Applause from Senator Rizzotti.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-773.ana.u65	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote in dissent from my Group.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-773.ana.u66	I take note of that and give you the floor.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-773.ana.u67	PALMA (FI-PdL XVII). Madam President, Senator Malan announced the Group's vote in favour, but I pre-announce my abstention vote. I would like to make a slightly more general point, in the light of the text that already appears to have passed, except then the vote on the article and the other paragraphs that will be the subject of other amendments. At present, a provision has been passed according to which a minor cannot be rejected at the border under any circumstances. Well, let's assume that this minor appears to be reported by our Forces of Order as a subject probably and presumably close to subversive organizations. Well, we cannot reject him at the border. Can it happen? I think so. Do we have a system to overcome this eventuality? Absolutely not. A short time ago Senator Malan was discussing another paragraph, namely that which provides that at the request of the child may not be activated relations with the consular authorities of other countries. I fully understand the meaning of the rule, which is evidently put to the protection of the child. The child knows perfectly well the situation in the country of origin and that is why he asks that contacts with other authorities not be activated. Great. I agree. If, however, the minor, by hypothesis, not being underage or well knowing what in his country they know about his person, uses this tool precisely to avoid the emergence of his minor age or his involvement in criminal activities, do we have a rule that allows us to deviate from the general scheme? We don't have it. [[Applause from Senator Marin.]] Amendment 5.16 (correct text) all in all tends to solve this problem. I make a last notation on the next paragraph; it is said that the ascertainment of the minor age takes place through socio-health checks and, then, in another paragraph it is stated that in the event that there is doubt about the greater or lesser age of the subject, it is assumed the minor age. Very good. Excuse me, Mr Undersecretary, if the child were to oppose social and health checks, he would avoid these investigations, in what way would it be possible to ascertain the minor's age? Do you think that the adult, who claims to be underage, is aware of the rule that in case of doubt the child is presumed to be underage, will not escape socio-health checks? Soon after, there is an amendment, I always believe of Senator Malan, which gives rise to an absolutely well-known consequence in our order, according to which when someone evades a certain type of investigation, that behavior is considered relevant from the point of view of evidence. An example of all, in a cause of disapproval or recognition of paternity, the alleged father evades the blood collection for the detection of DNA; in our order it is said that it can be done, but the consequence is that this behavior will be evaluated. So I ask myself, Secretary, in the face of a whole series of problems that have been raised on an important subject, on which we would also have been substantially in agreement, why do you insist on rejecting common sense amendments which would simply close the instrumental possibilities that this measure gives rise to? Do you really think that an adult who claims to be a minor, and who in his own country is well known as a subject devoted to subversive activities (in the sense that we know), will lend himself to socio-health investigations? You won't ask not to contact the consular authorities in your country? So, basically, I am abstaining on the vote on this amendment. However, I would like to invite both the Government and the House; what we are asking for is not political matters; we are not telling you not to give protection to abandoned foreign children, we are simply telling you to do everything you want to do, but to include, please, within the rule of small exception clauses that can prevent minors, who assume to be minors and who are objectively dangerous for this country, to freely enter Italy. I believe that when we say to you that we agree with the general rule, you can also allow us to make our contribution, recognizing that perhaps a small exception would be useful here. We are not asking for anything that, nothing that has an ideological or politically relevant taste of opposition to this bill. [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-773.ana.u68	He asked the government representative to intervene.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-773.ana.u69	Madam President, I very much appreciate the speech that has just been made, because it clarifies in part some of the key points of the measure. As for the first point, the ratio identified by Senator Nitto Palma is exactly what supports the regulatory system. It is not that diplomatic and consular authorities are not called upon to respond to the obedience of the person who has arrived on our territory. It is evident that once this person has arrived on our territory, precisely because at persecutory risk, diplomatic and consular information cannot be used, otherwise his safety is put at risk, but above all that of the people close to him (predictably the family members) remained in the territory of departure. Let me turn to the second case, which has been explained. If the person is in certain conditions (for example, he is an alleged terrorist), he ceases to be an unaccompanied minor and is considered exactly what he is. Our system already provides for a whole range of possibilities to react to the entry of people suspected of committing certain crimes or of being in the process of doing so. As for the third point, we do not like presumption for a very simple reason. In fact, the consequences are already provided for in Article 5, which I would like to read in its entirety. Since we have been talking all morning about cooperatives, welfare agencies and social bodies, I would like to point out that the responsibility for identification lies with public security, as clearly stated in the article. If there is doubt as a result of the investigation of public security, the responsibility rests with the prosecutor of the Republic. They have nothing to do with all the other third- or second-sector entities that are trying to get into the discussion. If the person refuses to undergo the medical examinations to which the Public Prosecutor of the Republic at the Court for Minors can appeal to determine the age, the appropriate consequences will be drawn. This is written in paragraph 5 of article 5, which adds article 19-a to Legislative Decree no. 142 of August 18, 2015. Moreover, that is why yesterday we opposed all the amendments to the definition rule contained in Article 2. Legislative decree no. 142, in fact, already contains a definition of unaccompanied minors that we cannot alter, if not with the risk - precisely - of introducing in our legal system two notions of unaccompanied minors, thus making it practically impossible for the operator to understand which rules apply to the category of legislative decree no. 142 and which do not. As the matter was assessed by the judicial authority, it was preferred not to introduce any kind of presumption. The final presumption that will be worth is that of the minor age. You, Senator Nitto Palma, know this much better than I do: as the European Court of Justice, the Constitutional Court and all the Italian courts have consistently said, in doubt, the younger age is assumed. The measure merely takes note of an absolutely constant case law. For these reasons, it seems to me that the government's direction cannot change.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-773.ana.u70	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-773.ana.u71	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-773.ana.u72	MARIN (FI-PdL XVII). Madam President, I would like to thank the Secretary-General for having entered into the debate on this subject, bearing in mind Senator Palma's speech, which I believe is of common sense and acceptable throughout this House. In fact, he has also reopened the debate, allowing us to talk about such an important measure, and I thank him for that. Mr. Undersecretary, allow me to say two things. The first is that you have not responded to the true and concrete observations that Senator Palma has made, even in the light of his professional experience. I tell you this with absolute sincerity. We were now reading with Senator Malan the text of the measure and with regard to the doubt that is raised you did not give an answer. I don't want to go into legal terms, even if as far as I'm concerned Senator Palma today offered us a lesson in this sense (but if Senator Finocchiaro had intervened, given her experience, I would have said exactly the same thing). We have received an intelligent observation from Senator Palma, whose professional experience can be shared by everyone, but you, Undersecretary, intervened - I thank you for this - defending the measure, but without fully grasping the observations that Senator Palma, with his professional and life experience, addressed to you. I would like to add another remark (but I expect the Undersecretary to listen to me, for the courtesy he has already had, since he is rightly now listening to a comment by Minister Finocchiaro): compared to the need to deal with the practice, you should not have answered in these terms to Senator Palma, but should have answered the question about how many of the children who go to family homes (I am not talking about a seven- or eight-year-old child, but the eighteen-year-old borderlines), according to the case studies, remain there after the first week. After the first month, how many stay there? After the first night how many remain in those family homes and how many, precisely because of the doubt advanced by Senator Palma (that maybe they are not seventeen years old), leave? From my point of view if they are seventeen or two years old, although with the differences that are there, they are always smaller; but how many of the borderlines, compared to whose category you do not want to accept the tools that we are suggesting to do the right reconnaissances, remain in the family homes after a week and how many instead run away and no longer know where they are? We're not talking about the kids. I also heard yesterday some of the observations that have been raised, for example by Senator Serra, that we respect and share, because one account are the real minors, another account are those that come to Italy thanks to what is evidently a deception. It is then our prerogative to understand if there is a deception and also to defend ourselves, not only for economic costs, but because if there is deception there is something that does not work. I have to think about how many of the tens of thousands of adult migrants who arrive in the centres after a year are still in the centres or are regularized: less than half. And the same mechanism is used, Undersecretary. In his speech, Senator Palma stressed that the amendments we tabled and voted on earlier, for example the amendment by Senators Calderoli and Volpi, went in this direction and with this meaning: maximum reception, with open arms (who can say no to a child?), but if there is someone who comes and deceives us as an adult, why should we be deceived? It seems so obvious to me. Accept some of our amendments - which are common sense proposals - on this Article 5, which is at the heart of this measure. Mr Undersecretary, thank you for your intervention, but you have not answered your doubts about the amendments that the Forza Italia and Lega Nord groups are tabling. She doesn't answer the question. Here one wants to deny the evidence and lacks the case history. She had to tell us: "Look, all these who arrive and perform, in the next three months, eighteen years are still there." In fact: "We have found him a job, we have given them the professional and working dignity and we are happy with this." But if the case studies say that there is a large percentage of these migrants who are not minor, we propose to investigate and allow our country to say with certainty that they are minor. Mr Manzione, thank you for having spoken in the debate, but your defence is a defence that does not hold and suggests an ideology about a measure that could be wanted and voted by everyone, but that so cannot be. [[Applause from Senator Malan.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-773.ana.u73	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-773.ana.u74	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-773.ana.u75	FALANGA (ALA-SCLP). Madam President, I would like to thank the Undersecretary (at the moment careless) for urging all of us to read the measure as a whole. I have already read it, Mr Undersecretary, and after your exhortation I have read it once again: it seems to me that there is no doubt that you are going through an error of interpretation of the whole text. The Public Prosecutor of the Republic is expected to have health checks for the identification of the child's age. As we read in paragraph 4 of Article 5: "If reasonable doubts remain about the age declared by an unaccompanied minor, the prosecutor of the Republic to the court for minors can arrange social and health examinations... Well, read this provision in conjunction with paragraph 8 of the same article, as Senator Palma said: If, even after the socio-health check, doubts remain about the minor age, this is assumed to be at any legal effect. This means that, when the doubt persists, this law affirms the presumption of the minor age of the subject; not only after the socio-health check, but also in the absence of such a check. You, Mr. Undersecretary, said: 'Warning, read the text'. And we read it. You referred to paragraph 5 of Article 5. This paragraph provides that the foreigner shall be informed of the outcome of the investigations and of any consequences in the event of refusal. I repeat, he shall be informed of the consequences of the refusal. Excuse me, Mr. Undersecretary, but what would be the possible consequences of the refusal of information given to the child? Paragraph 5 provides that the child must be informed of any consequences: what are these consequences? I say to him: these are the consequences of a presumed minor age following the determination or refusal of the investigation. That's it. And do you not think that this contrasts also with the legal landscape of our country in terms of the fit hypothesis of refusal? I refer to the example given by President Palma in the matter of paternity recognition: the refusal to submit to the DNA examination constitutes proof of paternity. I would like to give you another example: in the event of a road accident, we suggest that the person refuses to undergo tests to ensure that he has not taken narcotic drugs: we, in the absence of an investigation, assume the exact opposite. I am sorry, because the basis of the measure is shared by us, so much so that Senator Mazzoni has worked on it, and we thank him as a Group and we follow him, but on this point following a direction of more careful investigation and more careful consequence of the refusal of the investigation seems to me wise. She cannot say that the consequences of the failure to refuse are already foreseen, because, reading the norm, the consequences of the failure to refuse are only those of having to inform, as paragraph 5 states, the minor through the services. Another amendment, on which I would have liked to speak (I refer to Senator Malan's amendment 5.12), provides for a double assessment track: the court may request it for minors but also for the social and health administrative authority. This also serves to lighten the workload of our magistrates and our courts for minors who, by little, will be abolished due to the law of reform of the code of civil procedure. With this measure we are responsible for a judge and a judicial office that will shortly be abolished and we will no longer understand how carefully the provisions that we foresee here from non-specialized judges can be implemented. To foresee, then, the double track, to provide that the social and health administrative authority can arrange - then order - the subject to undergo socio-health check seemed to me a guarantee element, even for the same minor. Mr Undersecretary, thank you and I would ask you to consider this point. As far as the rest of this idea is concerned, and if my Group considers that it does not vote on the amendments that deal with these issues, I will personally disagree with it and vote on Amendments 5,12 and 5,17 by the North League, at the first signature of Senator Calderoli. [[Applause from the ALA-SCCLP Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-773.ana.u76	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-773.ana.u77	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-773.ana.u78	CALIENDO (FI-PdL XVII). Madam President, good wishes and good work. I warmly welcome them, because the speech I have asked to make relates to a Kafki situation: we are not doing the task for which we have been elected, so we do not understand the meaning of the debate. I would like to address the Secretary-General, whom I appreciated in his reply, and the rapporteur, to take some of the issues into account. Even yesterday, Mr Senator Calderoli's amendment pointing to the need to give priority to establishing procedures for family reunification - or at least to place them on the same level as protection - you told us that this is not the case in Europe. But this morning we read that the European Commission today, with a recommendation, will invite Member States to encourage family reunification of abandoned children. That is the norm today; that is the recommendation. Therefore, yesterday's debate has been distorted compared to today's new reality. You tell us today that the problem is solved by paragraph 5 of Article 5. We are not discussing a logic of the search for political success or the adoption of a law that can bring a vote, but from the technical-legal point of view, to understand whether the norm is clear or whether it lends itself to misunderstandings and to being exploited. As long as there is the possibility to intervene for clarification, since this bill will certainly return to the examination of the Chamber, it is appropriate that we do everything possible to make it clear. You tell me that paragraph 5 provides that the foreigner shall also be informed of the possible results expected from the social and health examinations, as well as of the consequences of your refusal to undergo such examinations. Apart from the fact that it is only an alert to the prosecutor of the Republic for possible lie and incorrect behavior, my concern concerns the eighth paragraph of the same Article 5, which does not apply. In fact, this reads: "Wherever, even after the investigation..." But then, is the assumption that the investigation has been there or that it has been refused? It is evident, from the way paragraph 8 is written, that the investigation was: "Wherever, even after the socio-sanitary investigation..." In fact, the investigation must resolve doubts about the minor age. Paragraph 8 says that, if the finding has not solved these doubts, the presumption of the minor age applies. Question: And if the finding was not by the will of the minor, what is the consequence? That's what we're saying. At least it is made clear that that presumption of a minor age finds an insurmountable and insurmountable limit in the behavior of the minor who escapes from social and health investigations. Here, I would not like to see another clarification from another authority tomorrow (as was the case with the finding that Senator Calderoli was asking for family reunification), we are not all denied. There is no conflicting dialogue, Mr. Undersecretary. Dear rapporteur, there is no conflicting position, but the search for clarification of the rule. On this point, I believe that a minimum of reflection would be appropriate. Since I was also Undersecretary of the Government, I understand that sometimes positions have to be taken, but when there is the possibility of finding a solution that is confirmed and shared by the entire Assembly, why refuse clarification? That's not understandable.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-773.ana.u79	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-773.ana.u80	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-773.ana.u81	VOLPI (LN-Aut). Madam President, I shall be brief and I shall confine myself to a clarification. I'm trying to change the mind of Undersecretary Mantua with respect to other cultures. I can assure you, Mr. Undersecretary, that the Legists also know how to read, and that we also have personal stories. You can't lie to us. You used a certain expression, saying that we're sticking things in the discussion that have nothing to do with it, cooperatives and stuff. Mr. Undersecretary, just read the measure: you put them there. I would point out to you, Mr Undersecretary, that it was enough to turn the page and read paragraph 3 of Article 6: Upon the appointment of a guardian, the tasks relating to the application for a residence permit or international protection may be carried out by the person responsible for the first reception facility. Excuse me, Mr. Undersecretary, who is normally responsible for the first reception facility? You do your part, but do it without offending the intelligence of others. [[Applause from Senator Calderoli.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-773.ana.u82	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-773.ana.u83	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-773.ana.u84	PALMA (FI-PdL XVII). Madam President, I am speaking on the order of business in order to invite the Government to a short period of suspension: the time necessary to allow for reflection, no more nor less than this. Minister Finocchiaro and Undersecretary Manzione are both technicians of the subject: in Article 5, we have two provisions that are of interest. The first is to inform the minor of the consequences of his failure to submit to social and health checks. What are they? It's not clear. If the consequence is merely information to the prosecutor of the Republic, you understand for yourself that it leaves the time it finds. The second notation is in paragraph 8 of article 5, which Senator Caliendo referred to earlier: If, even after the socio-health check, doubts remain about the minor age, this is assumed to be at any legal effect. As Senator Caliendo rightly said, one thing is whether the socio-health check has been made; but, if there has not been at the will of the child, what happens? Are you supposed to be underage or not? And, if it is not assumed, is this a consequence of the failure to submit to which the preceding paragraph refers? I would therefore ask the Government to take a moment of reflection and try, as far as possible, to make this provision, as a whole, much less contradictory and to allow a more complete discipline, which also provides for the possibility of a failure to submit to socio-health investigations with what follows.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-773.ana.u85	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-773.ana.u86	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-773.ana.u87	At the same time, I invite him to comment on the request for a provision of the remainder of Article 5, made by Senator Palma. Mr Mazzoni, rapporteur. Madam President, in declaring myself opposed to this request for provision, I would also like to point out that Article 19 of Legislative Decree No 25 of 2008, implementing Directive 2005/85 of the European Union, laying down minimum standards for the procedures applied in the Member States for the recognition and withdrawal of refugee status, under the heading "Guarantee for unaccompanied minors" in paragraph 2 provides: If there are doubts as to the age, the unaccompanied minor may, at any stage of the procedure, be subjected, with the consent of the minor himself or his legal representative, to non-invasive medical and health examinations in order to ascertain the age of the minor. It should be noted that the child's lack of consent to these investigations does not constitute grounds for impediment to the acceptance of the application. This is a provision that already exists in our order and that is absolutely not contrary to what the new law on unaccompanied foreign minors provides. Presumption of the minor age is a well-established case law practice. All positions on this article are obviously legitimate, but let us start from the facts and start from the legislation already in force.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-773.ana.u88	I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 5.16 (correct text), tabled by Senators Malan and Rizzotti. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 5.12.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-773.ana.u89	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-773.ana.u90	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-773.ana.u91	(at 11.20 a.m.) [[Applause from the PD and LN-Aut groups at the address of Vice-President Di Giorgi.]] CALIENDO (FI-PdL XVII). Mr President, those in this House who were attentive to the debate yesterday know that there was a speech by Senator Serra, whom I very much appreciated and which I also applauded, because it is the premise for the adoption of this amendment. The only logical consequence of a statement, which I share, on the need to protect and protect the unaccompanied minor, on the need to be sure of the minor is in fact to induce people to behave correctly for the purpose of that investigation. That is the reason why, Mr Undersecretary, we are begging you: make a reformulation, give a certain indication. It is not enough for me what Senator Mazzoni said, who talks about the application of the final norm, about the acceptance of the application; since the seventeen-year-old, who is not, will then become of age, will be difficult to ascertain after what the situation was at the time. Meanwhile, he will continue to be judged by the court for minors. I do not ask you to accept this amendment, which I would like to endorse, if the presenter agrees, but I ask the Government to propose a rewording of it, to give us a certainty (all of us want nothing else) so that a minor who is not such has no right to protection; if he is a minor, all protections and all rights must be recognised. That's the logic. That's why I called Senator Serra's surgery. In fact, the passion (which I share) for the achievement of some results cannot constitute a blind eye compared to problems that arise from a distorted or instrumental use of this norm. That is why I ask that I be able to add my signature to Amendment 5.12. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I see Senator Malan agrees.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-773.ana.u92	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-773.ana.u93	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-773.ana.u94	FALANGA (ALA-SCLP). Mr President, I would like to ask Senator Malan to add my signature to Amendment 5.12. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I see Senator Malan agrees in this case as well.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-773.ana.u95	On behalf of the Assembly, I greet the students and teachers of the Institute of Higher Education Vincenzo Cardarelli in Tarquinia, in the province of Viterbo, who are attending our work. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-773.ana.u96	I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 5.12, tabled by Senator Malan and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 5.117.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-773.ana.u97	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-773.ana.u98	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-773.ana.u99	VOLPI (LN-Aut). Mr President, I turn amendment 5.117 into an agenda and since the Undersecretary has told us that everything is already planned, I believe that the Government has no difficulty in accepting it. As you know, once it was said that an agenda is not denied to anyone: we have reached this point as well.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-773.ana.u100	I call on the rapporteur and the representative of the Government to comment on this proposal.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-773.ana.u101	Mr President, I am against this.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-773.ana.u102	Mr President, it is precisely to show that there is no prejudice, if Senator Volpi explains to me what the agenda is; otherwise I would not understand.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-773.ana.u103	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-773.ana.u104	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-773.ana.u105	VOLPI (LN-Aut). Mr President, I am surprised by the Undersecretary, because I have been explaining this to you since yesterday. I wonder if he's here with his head. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator Volpi, don't you dare. VOLPI (LN-Aut). I'm sorry, but I've been explaining this to you for two days. I said this in the explanation of the whole of the amendments and I repeated it earlier: if you want, you will accept it, otherwise you will say no to that too.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-773.ana.u106	We shall now proceed to the vote on the G5.117 agenda.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-773.ana.u107	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-773.ana.u108	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-773.ana.u109	CANDIANI (LN-Aut). Mr President, my first point is to ask for the amendment to be signed. However, having been requested by the presenter to turn the agenda into an explanation of vote at this point if it were to be maintained. However, we have not understood whether this proposal is accepted by the Government as an agenda. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. It doesn't seem like it, Senator Candiani. CANDIANI (LN-Aut). I speak in explanation of vote on the agenda G5.117. I would like to say to the Undersecretary and, of course, to the House that it is necessary to read the text of the bill and to understand how closely it is presented. Paragraph 4 of Article 5 reads as follows: If there are reasonable doubts as to the age declared by an unaccompanied minor, the prosecutor of the Republic at the court for minors may arrange social and health examinations for the determination of the same person. This is the text of the bill. The amendment, which Senator Volpi has magnanimously asked to turn into an agenda, simply provides for the replacement of the paragraph that I have just read with the following: If there are reasonable doubts about the unaccompanied alien's minor age, with the consent of the presumed minor, an appropriate socio-health visit will be arranged and all non-invasive instrumental medical investigations aimed at ascertaining the minor's age. The refusal of the unaccompanied alien to submit to the investigations referred to in the preceding paragraph shall result in the presumption of the minor age referred to in paragraph 8 of this Article being disregarded. It is also evident to those who do not want to look at the reality that, if you do not put a condition for which the person who asks to have access to the right to be hosted in our country as a minor, declaring to be such, at the moment when, not being minor, declares the false, that is, the investigations produce an effect not corresponding to what has been declared, cannot access the benefits provided by the law, are already inserted all the loopholes so that that that "minor," that it is not, can use the superficiality of the legal device to remain in our territory, even being maintained by the community, as a minor, although not being it. Continuing the reading of the article, paragraph 6 gives the following: The socio-sanitary assessment of the age must be carried out in an appropriate environment with a multidisciplinary approach by adequately trained professionals and, where necessary, in the presence of a cultural mediator, using less invasive ways possible - I want to believe that we do not use the circular saw to see the size of the bones, but to this we had arrived - and respectful of the presumed age, the sex and the physical and psychic integrity of the person. This provides for the bill, which goes on to provide that: Social and health examinations that may impair the psycho-physical status of the person should not be performed. Do you render yourself of what is written in the text? The only examination that can really be effective in determining the age of a person claiming to be underage is the wrist X-ray. In the light of this rule, who gives me the assurance that none of those who are asked for wrist X-rays will be able to claim that these are health treatments that can compromise their psychophysical state? In fact, one may argue that one is afraid of radiation and therefore does not undergo X-ray, raising this objection and asking not to be subjected to this examination. Mr. Undersecretary, what happens in this situation? There is the scientific impossibility of verifying the presumed age of those who claim to be underage. If the text does not provide for a closing rule, which states that those who refuse to submit to the examination have no right to access the benefits of protection, that is to say to be recognized as minors, well, once again you are creating - other than a grove with holes - a law that opens entire doors to indiscriminate access in our country. Moving forward in the text, paragraph 8 is even indicated that, if, after the socio-health check, doubts remain about the minor age, it is assumed to have any legal effect. Fantastic! In this rule you have foreseen that if you are not available to the investigation, because you believe that this could come into conflict with your own psychophysical condition, you do not submit to the X-rays and that other scientific investigations cannot be done, because of course they must not be invasive: well, you have already provided the modalities that will use the lawyer Guariso on duty, the Association legal studies on the immigration of shift or the Association lawyers for nothing on duty. Obviously, quite rightly, by making the fee paid by the State, because the child who requires protection is not wealthy, will come to exercise this lack of law in favour of a clandestine to all intents and purposes, who moreover declares himself underage being not. Fantastic! You're making a mess! To accept an agenda on this issue would at least mean that we have a clear need to intervene with decrees or with a paralegislative measure, and I do not say legislative since you do not want to accept amendments. Consider this aspect, because not considering it is really disconcerting in the face of the scenario of inability to govern the situation that unfortunately, in our country, in the matter of illegal immigration is more than obvious. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-773.ana.u110	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-773.ana.u111	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-773.ana.u112	SERRA (M5S). Mr President, it seems that in this House, in the face of the problem of minors, the straw tail emerges because, when, a few years ago, we voted for Mubarak's so-called nephew, everyone was convinced that that woman was of age when she was a minor. It is already well explained in the measure before us how we can start the monitoring procedure. There is already a system to determine whether the person in question is underage: this possibility exists. Why, then, does it seem so complex to understand or accept a system that was thought of in this way when, years ago, it was necessary to ascertain whether Mubarak's so-called grandson was really underage, not discussed, in fact, assumed that she was of age? In any case, in this measure, senators, the need for an investigation is already foreseen. If the boy is of age and refuses, he is still controlled and there are institutions to do so. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-773.ana.u113	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-773.ana.u114	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-773.ana.u115	PALMA (FI-PdL XVII). Mr President, before I speak, I would like to know whether amendment 5.117 has been turned into an agenda or not. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I'll confirm that. PALMA (FI-PdL XVII). So basically it would be an invitation to the Government to undertake to evaluate the opportunity to regulate in a more specific way a possible refusal of the unaccompanied foreigner, with the consequences in the matter of presumption of a minor age. That's the point of the agenda, isn't it? [[Applause from Senator Candiani]] I really do not understand why the government in the future, according to its own discretion and the time it intends to devote to the matter, cannot evaluate this opportunity. Obviously I, and I think my group, will vote in favour of this agenda. However, I would like to highlight two aspects. You see, Senator Serra (don't let Senator Caliendo disturb you), you make a speech that I share: in the law, present or future, there are ways of ascertaining the minor age. It's true. What we are trying to understand is: when the investigations are made in vain because the minor escapes them, what is the discipline to follow? You on this point, kind Senator Serra, did not intend to answer. To the rapporteur, who, in a way, has given an opinion against this agenda by recalling Rule 19, I would like to say that, as Senator Caliendo has pointed out, the acceptance of the question is different from the presumption of a minor age. What we say, Senator Mazzoni, is that, in case you avoid socio-health investigations, you do not close the matter because of a doubt, that there is however this presumption and that, in the most varied and respectful ways of our order, they can continue the investigations. We don't say anything but that. Let's say to the child: if you subtract from these investigations, be careful that no one will assume you anymore a minor and we will continue to do them until we reach the completeness of the identification. It is clear that if, by the successive means that will be experienced, the doubt persists, as the Undersecretary mentioned earlier, that subject will be considered minor; if the doubt does not persist, it will be of age, but, in any case, the question will not stop there. It will not stop with a presumption that is essentially such as to cause slowness, if not disinterest, in those who have to carry out these investigations. That's it. Finally, I would like to express my esteem for Senator Falanga, who, while being part of the same political grouping of the rapporteur and of a party that perhaps too often votes in the same way as the majority, had the courage to express his ideas to the full, only for this time similar to those carried out by the Forza Italia Group. [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-773.ana.u116	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-773.ana.u117	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-773.ana.u118	FALANGA (ALA-SCLP). Mr President, the Undersecretary would allow me to point out one aspect, leaving out the consequences in the event of the child's refusal, because it seems to me that on the point there is a closure and when there are closures it is useless to insist. The provision to allow at least what I define the double track - that is, a measure that can be issued alternately by the prosecutor of the Republic to the court for minors or socio-health administrative authorities - would give the possibility to lighten the work of the prosecutors of minors and of the court for minors, on the other hand, would attribute to the most qualified and more directly interested or more informed person, that is, the police authority, as you recalled, assisted by subjects engaged in this field, to issue a further investigation order. This is in the event that what the norm requires the court for minors can do, as a priority or in any case alternative, also the police authority, which is the first to have contact with the minor. This would of course lighten the work, Mr Undersecretary, and it does not conflict with the conclusions and, leaving aside the consequences of the refusal, it can favour: if the child gives consent to the prescription of the administrative authority - and the rule provides so - it also avoids us from resorting to the court for minors. If the child agrees to submit to the investigation, beyond the already planned interview with the police authority assisted by experts in the field, the procedure of identification of the child is defined first, it is lightened and quickened. I wonder whether you, the Secretary of State, cannot consider an agenda, namely a reformulation of the amendment that we are examining, which excludes the aspect of the consequences, but which allows the police authorities to proceed, with the consent of the child, to socio-health checks aimed at establishing the identity of the child. Think about it, because it may help to make identification easier. I ask you to evaluate at least this.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-773.ana.u119	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-773.ana.u120	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-773.ana.u121	BUEMI (Aut (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT)-PSI-MAIE). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I believe that many of the criticisms that have been made by the opposition to this measure are pretentious and unjustified, but intellectual honesty requires recognition of the criticalities that are actually there and I believe that a strong critical issue lies precisely in the content of this debate. We must ensure that the measure that is taken to protect the national interest, but also that of children, is able to perform its function as best as possible. Although I belong to the majority, Mr Undersecretary, Minister for Relations with Parliament, I believe that the adoption of this agenda can help to bring out the goodness of the measure, and also to avoid criticism which to some extent can be justified. If we do not want to intervene with a change within this measure, the sharing of this agenda would at least allow us to assess in future measures a correction or clarification of this contrast, which I too see, in the position of the adult who denounces the position of minor and therefore wanting to avoid the criticalities of a position that would prevent the pursuit of his objective. I believe that the adoption of this agenda would clarify many situations of application of the rule.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-773.ana.u122	I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of the agenda G5.117, tabled by Senator Calderoli and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I would like to refer to the nominal vote by simultaneous vote on Amendment 5.16 tabled by Senator Malan, identical to Amendment 5.118, tabled by Senators Calderoli and Volpi. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Senator Serra, the agendas of the day G5.100 and G5.101 were accepted as recommendations. Are you insisting on the vote? SERRA (M5S). No, Mr. President. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. As the presenter does not insist on the vote, the agendas for G5.100 and G5.101 are accepted as recommendations. We shall now proceed to the vote on Rule 5.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-773.ana.u123	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-773.ana.u124	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-773.ana.u125	Gasparri (FI-PdL XVII). Mr President, I am speaking to explain in general terms our vote against Article 5, which, as has been said, is at the heart of this measure. The multiple interventions of Senator Malan, Senator Marin, Senator Palma, Senator Caliendo and many other colleagues focused on individual aspects of this article, motivating the opportunity for changes and integrations. The subject is delicate, because we are talking about the reception of minors. In this way, from a moral or moral point of view, it seems almost difficult not to accept minors: who is this Herod who, on the borders of Italy or the Mediterranean, sends away children? Here is not that there is Herod's party, on the one hand, and the righteous party, on the other; there is the difficult and complicated management of a complex issue, which cannot be addressed either in demagogic terms, or in purely emotional terms because, if we did a survey asking if we wanted to help children, who would say no? Perhaps the conductors of the program "Le Hyene" which, as we said yesterday, use them for other purposes. Senator Rizzotti introduced this morning a theme that has aroused attention and reflection. Thank you for this because, although I am a careful reader of paper newspapers, I had missed the mention of the newspaper "La Stampa", a daily newspaper that always deals with the issues of immigration with great understanding and universalistic and ecumenical spirit, which warns us all and informs us, ladies and gentlemen of the Government, of this orientation of the European Commission more restrictive regarding the arrival of children and it is not that the European Commission, in Brussels, has arrived Herod. Juncker everything is, except Herod; you can appreciate it or not, if you say so many about him, but not that it's Herod. However, the European Commission, ladies and gentlemen of the Government, gives an exact opposite direction to what this law underlies: more caution, more severity, more attention. This is when the quantities are rampant, when the numbers deflate, when the management of these traffics is accompanied by factors of speculation, enrichment (think of the traffickers of people), collusion with terrorism. The other day, President Gentiloni Silveri, explaining the periodic report of the highest bodies of terrorism, did not talk about minors, but about migratory flows. In the report there are some statements that when we make them we raise beautiful souls to say that we make a whole grass a bundle. We know that those who arrive with the boats are not all terrorists, we would miss it, but we have always denounced the risk of infiltration and the report, which is in the acts of Parliament, confirmed this, warning of the risks that Italy is running and that the fact that so far we have escaped from striking terrorist events does not eliminate this risk. You may wonder what this has to do with children: it has to do with the overall management of immigration policies. I read that even the president, indeed the regent or I don't know what the Democratic Party, Orfini, thunders saying to put trust on the Ius alone. Related theme [[Comments of Senator Casini]] What do you say, President Casini? PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. It was an interruption on something else. Gasparri (FI-PdL XVII). I'm in favour of interruptions. He'll tell me later. It is said to put trust and in fact it is a measure that is on the agenda after what we are now examining. You're free to do whatever you want. I do not know whether we should put trust in it, but we will vote against both this measure and this measure because of the form it is taking. We have approached each other with a dialogue, with improved amendments. I am referring, for example, to the question that has been discussed with reference to Article 5: this presumption of childhood, on the basis of which if one refuses or is not found, is presumed to be minor. I am not a doctor, but I remember that even in the days before Senator Rizzotti mentioned the x-ray of the ulna and non-invasive and non-offensive medical methods that allow to ascertain the age in a reliable way from the medical point of view. All this policy is not solidarity with children, but encouragement for illegal immigration. Then you will find yourself, colleagues of the Democratic Party, also the mayor of a municipality in the Province of Benevento that at a certain point says: "de hoc satis," now enough! Then if the mayor of the beneventano says so, then they turn all the illegal refugees from the City of Benevento, if another says so, they do the trial for the use of the term "clandestine." This kind of policy, ladies and gentlemen, is not good. This kind of attitude is wrong. We are in favour of helping children, but we want a policy that is fair and not demagogic, that can distinguish by chance and does not lend itself to abuse. In the last few days we talked about Amri, whether he was minor or not when he arrived. The illegals aren't all like Amri. We too see the faces of poor, misguided and in need of solidarity. But the issue is that solidarity cannot be infinite, it must have rules and there must be methods of recognition. We are in a European system that changes direction, and even the European Union seems to foresee the imprisonment of children. But then who arrived in Brussels? Herod? In Brussels they even came to the point of imagining imprisonment for children. I do not propose this now, but let us not beg this policy! [[Applause from Senator Marin]] We must introduce easy citizenship and adopt this child law. The manifesto is: come all to Italy! Then who keeps these people? How do you do that? How do you deal with this emergency? Also on the subject of relief, Mr Calderoli, we will have to open a parenthesis, since in a few days we will be talking about international military missions. The Hamburg Convention states that all those who are drowning must be helped. But the Hamburg Convention was adopted because - let me take the picture - if President Calderoli goes to sea and the boat (small, I imagine) sinks, he must be rescued. We can't drown him! The Hamburg Convention was not adopted for those who organize the flow of illegal immigrants, taking money, and then warning the non-governmental organization - and here too the children - because some ships from non-governmental organizations do a strange activity. In this regard, Frontex, the European organisation dealing with immigration and not the Herods of the Italian right centre, has denounced that some non-governmental organisations (some acronyms are well known) cooperate. The dinghies leave, they are now bought in China, so they are destined to sail little and soon the rescue arrives. Then, the signal is made to the Italian Harbour Office so, according to the Hamburg Convention, the dinghy must be brought to Italy. The other day a Norwegian ship with 1,000 people on board landed in Palermo. I would also like to address Minister Minniti and the Undersecretary: we are talking about a change and the security decrees, but they are just newspaper headlines, because things are worse than last year. There are more landings, more arrivals and more disaster. Do we want to say it or not? [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII and the Senator Council.]] We will also discuss the security decrees, we will table amendments. There is the decree on expulsion procedures, we have first said that three degrees of judgment are too much for asylum applications and we will see, also in terms of law, that we will make a reform that combines the speediest with the need to respect the fundamental principles, but this will be discussed in the coming days. However, in the end, the whole policy, overall, is catastrophic. Newspaper headlines are not enough: there is no turning point, because in January the landings have increased, obviously there are so many minors and the money is missing. Undersecretary Mr Manzione, yesterday we brought together some mayors and parliamentarians from our party. The mayors said that the burden of child management falls entirely behind the local authorities, that they can no longer make it and the municipalities go into disarray. You are demagogic in Parliament and mayors cannot make ends meet because of the costs of child care. [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII]] This is the reality of the facts. Who pays the bill in the end? We are not Herods. We are in favour of the possible solidarity, because the one announced and promised to all encourages the traffic and enriches the hullers. It is clear that the 1,000 people on board the Norwegian ship could not be taken to Norway, which is a little far away. I'm not Di Maio, and I know the map. [[Applause from Senator Rizzotti]] However, those people could be taken to Malta, Tunisia or somewhere else. [[Comments of Senator Serra]] I think Di Maio confused Chile with Venezuela. There are all the reasons to vote against Article 5 and warn the Government and the majority. I would not want the genesis of so many parties to lead to an increasingly left-wing policy. On this you already assign a role of future opponents. Other than broad understandings, we will have the majority to defend the Italians and manage a controlled immigration, without that demagogy that instead you, even with this provision and its article 5, are deepening with full hands. [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII. Congratulations.]] Mr Rizzotti (FI-PdL XVII). Bravo!
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-773.ana.u126	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-773.ana.u127	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-773.ana.u128	VOLPI (LN-Aut). Mr President, I agree with President Gasparri, who wanted to give a touch of content, even intense, to what is being discussed. As I am opposed to Article 5, I would like to make a very brief comment. You see, ladies and gentlemen, I think it is impossible to imagine that only one political party has exclusive rights. The current general political moment is demonstrating how assessments emerge that are no longer simply based on the personal or political stories that each of us carries within containers, but there is a word I don't like: the Post-ideological, post-political, as Senator Quagliariello says, post-truth. I want to offer you something. Today we are examining a measure from which I take a moment, because I do not understand some things. We have a duty, precisely for the time in which we live, not to imagine ourselves "post something," but to build something new that identifies the policies, strategies and social and legal elements of the coming years. None of us are more like ourselves. Imagine therefore that a single party and a single political group feel so exclusive in representing the soul of rights, it means that the moment has not been understood. As has not been fully understood, ladies and gentlemen, what can be said in propagandistic terms and what is said in constructive terms, in the legislative phase, are two different things. There is a beautiful study of the intensity of the political message, that is, how much is collected, as consensus, depending on how much the tone is raised or you get to touch certain situations. My question then is: why are the barricades on a subject that is not ideological? In fact, rights can be declined in a different way, but not necessarily ideologically. We must proceed in such a way that no one can contribute with his culture! First the president Gasparri (but they all talk about it) has remembered that we will soon face the provision that by synthesis I call the Minniti decree. I would ask my colleagues in the center-left, large, more pieces of the center-right who cooperate, if the Minniti decree from a neo-ideological point of view does not have pieces of right-wing ideas. Will you ask yourself that question? They used to tell you, as I remembered in recent days, to say "something left." Today you are facing such a complex issue, such as migration, which must be remembered and said before, is much wider, also because, as President Casini knows well that he deals with it daily, how many crises are there in the world that are not often recognized? I can think of two: one forgets the crisis in Central Africa and one forgets or does not touch Yemen because it may bother. It is clear that the problem is not even related to a single continent. Well, in the face of these new and complex issues, which represent a conjunction between political and territorial ideologies, geopolitical and energy policies, we cannot fail to put in place our highest capacity to identify a meeting point on the parties that concern rights. [[Applause from Senator Candiani]] The contrast of the "no" shows that we have not understood the historical moment in which we are, in which we would probably all find ourselves unable to answer because we cannot do a common job. Of course, Undersecretary, respecting the differences (and of course not! Fortunately we are not in a dictatorship, even if at some time it may seem so). What scares me - and I want to say it in a simplified way looking at tomorrow, when other measures will come - is the doubt if you can get out of this logic why the leader has his idea and is the only one to deal with these issues and it is possible to think that tomorrow is everyone's and arrive at a sharing on some issues. Mr President, I think we have been through a time when, unfortunately, the life of all of us - and not just of us, I am talking globally - has been conditioned by a perversion. For almost a century we have translated all our legislative impulse, instrumental in the form of society, deriving from economic theories; I believe that this moment, so dramatic for our Planet, talking about the conditions in the world, requires a reversal of course. We must start again to identify the differences, which are those of political cultures, paths that depart from people. The systems and theories of the twentieth century have failed and then it is the opportunity to start from our ideas, translated into legislative forms, shared and not imposed, recalling also the different historical values that we have in us to open a season that neutralizes the most instinctive part of politics and helps to bring out and create real and positive conditions for our country and beyond. [[Applause from the LN-Aut groups and Senator Quagliariello. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-773.ana.u129	I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Rule 5. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the examination of Article 6, on which amendments have been tabled which are intended to be presented and on which I invite the rapporteur and the representative of the Government to give their views.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-773.ana.u130	Mr President, I am against all the amendments to Article 6.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-773.ana.u131	Mr President, I agree with the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-773.ana.u132	I put to the vote Amendment 6,100, tabled by Senators Calderoli and Volpi. It's not approved. We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 6.2.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-773.ana.u133	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-773.ana.u134	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-773.ana.u135	CANDIANI (LN-Aut). Mr President, I support Amendment 6.2. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. The Presidency takes note of this. CANDIANI (LN-Aut). Mr President, if possible, I would ask for this amendment to be voted on separately, distinguishing between the individual chapters. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator Candiani, since the Assembly is not against it, can you specify which parts you intend to separate? CANDIANI (LN-Aut). Mr President, the first part comes to the word 'international'. The second part includes the whole second paragraph. The third part begins with the third paragraph. The last is the fourth paragraph.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-773.ana.u136	Senator Candiani, I believe that point 4 should be considered linked to point 3. So it will be three votes. We shall therefore proceed to the vote on the first part of Amendment 6.2. SANTANGELO (M5S). We call for the vote on the amendment to be taken simultaneously by electronic means. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of the first part of amendment 6.2, tabled by Senators Naccarato and Candiani, up to the word: "international." (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I would like to refer to the nominal vote by simultaneous ballot of the second part of Amendment 6.2, tabled by Senators Naccarato and Candiani, by the number: (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of the third part of Amendment 6.2, tabled by Senators Naccarato and Candiani, from the number: (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 6,101.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-773.ana.u137	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-773.ana.u138	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-773.ana.u139	SANTANGELO (M5S). Mr President, as you well know for over four years I have always been here to ask you for the electronic vote, so have the kindness to look at me a moment earlier so that you can communicate. We ask that only this vote be taken by simultaneous ballot by electronic procedure.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-773.ana.u140	If you don't move your arm, Senator Santangelo, I don't go ahead. I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 6101 tabled by Senators Malan and Rizzotti. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Let us move on to Amendment 6102, on which the 5th Commission has expressed an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-773.ana.u141	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-773.ana.u142	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-773.ana.u143	CANDIANI (LN-Aut). Mr President, I support the amendment and request the vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-773.ana.u144	I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). Pursuant to Rule 102-bis of the Rules of Procedure, I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 6.12.02, tabled by Senator Calderoli and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the vote on Rule 6. SANTANGELO (M5S). We call for the vote to be taken by simultaneous ballot by electronic means. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Rule 6. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the examination of Rule 7, on which an amendment and an agenda have been tabled which are intended to be presented and on which I invite the rapporteur and the representative of the Government to give their views.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-773.ana.u145	Mr President, I am against the deletion amendment 7,100. On the agenda, Mr G7,100, I welcome the adoption as a recommendation.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-773.ana.u146	Mr President, I agree with the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-773.ana.u147	We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 7,100.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-773.ana.u148	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-773.ana.u149	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-773.ana.u150	CANDIANI (LN-Aut). Mr President, Article 7 reaffirms our strong concern about the whole establishment of the law. I read paragraph 1-a which you would like to introduce to Article 2 of Law No 184 of 1983: Local authorities promote awareness raising and training of caregivers to foster family custody of unaccompanied foreign children, as a priority compared to hospitalisation in a host facility. At a glance it comes to say: much better. There are no costs, which lie directly at the head of the families who take responsibility for it and end there. But local authorities are called on to promote awareness and training: rapporteur, government representatives, with what resources? With what abilities? Has any of you ever run a commune? Do you know what the burden local authorities have on child management today? I'm not talking about foreign minors, I'm talking about minors in general. They can't even manage the relationships between CPS, hospital, health services, psychologists and anything else, and we also put the promotion of awareness raising and the training of caregivers to foster custody? Unless, once again, we do not want to understand that there will be resources available to encourage the cooperatives that propose training. This would be a further slap in the face of the country's real problems. I would have liked to talk about a law that dealt with the problem of all unaccompanied minors and not just a category of minors, i.e. foreign minors. In this case, in fact, we would need a law that finances the local administrations of all municipalities that promote awareness for the custody of all unaccompanied and abandoned minors who are in the institute, not only therefore of foreign minors, as unfortunately the law is insinuating and inserting. This makes a new distinction - alas, yes, this discrimination - with regard to the Italian abandoned minors compared to foreigners, which in this case appear worthy of greater attention by the Government. So there are two critical issues. The first is to put new and additional managements in charge of local authorities, when they are already unable to guarantee the ordinary. The second is not to address the issue of minors as such, but to address them only as unaccompanied foreign minors. We consider this to be extremely limiting, even for a legislator who wants to spend this law as a further step towards protecting those who are weak, in the specific case of minors or so-called minors.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-773.ana.u151	Having not been tabled on Article 7 other amendments than the deleterious amendment 7,100, tabled by Senators Calderoli and Volpi, we shall proceed to the vote on the retention of the Rule. SANTANGELO (M5S). We also call for votes to be taken by simultaneous ballot by electronic means for subsequent articles. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I refer to the nominal vote by simultaneous ballot of the maintenance of Article 7. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). Senator Serra, do you insist on voting on the G7100 agenda? SERRA (M5S). No, Mr. President. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. As the presenter does not insist on the vote, the G7100 agenda is accepted as a recommendation. We shall now proceed to the examination of Article 8, on which amendments have been tabled which are intended to be presented and on which I invite the rapporteur and the representative of the Government to give their views.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-773.ana.u152	I am against all the amendments.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-773.ana.u153	I am in agreement with the rapporteur's opinion.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-773.ana.u154	We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 8,100. I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request for simultaneous voting by electronic procedure, previously made by Senator Santangelo, is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 8,100, tabled by Senators Calderoli and Volpi. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 8,101.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-773.ana.u155	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-773.ana.u156	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-773.ana.u157	CANDIANI (LN-Aut). Mr President, the North-League Group is calling for this amendment to be accepted.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-773.ana.u158	I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 8,101, tabled by Senators Calderoli and other Senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 8,102, tabled by Senators Calderoli and Volpi. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 8.103, tabled by Senators Calderoli and Volpi. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Rule 8. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the examination of Article 9, on which amendments have been tabled which are intended to be presented and on which I invite the rapporteur and the representative of the Government to give their views.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-773.ana.u159	I am against all the amendments.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-773.ana.u160	I give my assent to the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-773.ana.u161	We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 9,100. I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request for simultaneous voting by electronic procedure, previously made by Senator Santangelo, is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of Amendment 9,100, tabled by Senators Calderoli and Volpi. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of Amendment 9,101, tabled by Senators Calderoli and Volpi. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 9,102.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-773.ana.u162	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-773.ana.u163	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-773.ana.u164	MALAN (FI-PdL XVII). Mr President, this is a deleterious amendment to paragraph 3, because you really do not understand what it is for. Paragraph 3 states: The purpose of the registration of personal and social data declared by the unaccompanied alien child is to protect his/her best interests and rights and, in particular, his/her right to protection. It would seem a superfluous phrase, because the important thing is that this data is there. However, since this clarification is included in a law and a judge, or whoever must apply it, supposes that when the legislator writes a paragraph this means something, that paragraph can only mean this. If from the personal data emerges something that could vaguely endanger the acceptance of all the requests of this minor (for example, an emulate of Mr. Amri, who also arrived in Italy as an unaccompanied minor while being of age), you cannot use this data against him. It is the only meaning that this paragraph 3 can have. So, it's superfluous, or harmful. If by chance you receive some data, of course objective (because, otherwise, you would not insert it in this kind of database), that is not in favour, you do not take it into account. Frankly, it is too much even in such a provision.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-773.ana.u165	I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of Amendment 9,102, tabled by Senators Malan and Rizzotti. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Let us turn to Amendment 9,103, on which the 5th Commission has expressed an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution. MALAN (FI-PdL XVII). We are asking for the vote. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request for a vote is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). We shall therefore proceed to the vote on Amendment 9,103.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-773.ana.u166	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-773.ana.u167	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-773.ana.u168	MALAN (FI-PdL XVII). Mr President, we do not understand why what applies to paragraph 5 should not apply to a possible paragraph 4-a, where I have not added the words 'without additional charges', because I saw that paragraph 5 reads: The implementation of the provisions of this Article shall be carried out (magically, I add) within the limits of the human, financial and instrumental resources available to existing legislation and in any case without any new or increased burden on public finances. Now, since my amendment is an amendment which seeks to add a paragraph to the same article, it is not clear why it should not be considered covered. I therefore insist on your vote and I also explain the reasons for it. Article 9 is entitled "National Information System for Unaccompanied Foreign Minors'. Social folder (s) (s) (s) (s) (s) (s) (s) (s) (s) Then, however, we do not understand how, and if, this system can be consulted. Moreover, we have the bad experience of the so-called database of minors out of the Italian family, which is another very serious problem that we should deal with (a shame that the Forteto case, on which there is a request for the establishment of a Commission of inquiry, is the most serious example, but certainly not the only one, of horrors that occur in the management of children out of the family); this database, in fact, promised since 2011, in practice does not exist. Do we want, at least for unaccompanied foreign minors, to have a real database, which can be consulted centrally and from which we can find out where these minors are? The official data says that about a third of the minors who arrive in Italy then disappear. But, of course, it is not the interest of those who receive the money to receive them signal their disappearance. Then one day it turns out they're gone. And many disappear because, once they enter Italy, they have no interest in being in these structures, but they want to go to criminals, they want to go to another country or do anything outside the law, evidently, because otherwise they would remain where the law states that they must be. This amendment called for this so-called information system to serve something. Instead, it doesn't do any good, except to have a folder that only serves if it helps the presumed minor to stay in Italy. In all other cases, you don't have to. That is why, of course, we shall vote against Article 9 as a whole.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-773.ana.u169	Pursuant to Rule 102-bis of the Rules of Procedure, I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of Amendment 9,103, tabled by Senators Malan and Rizzotti. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I would like to refer to the vote by a simultaneous vote on Rule 9. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the examination of Article 10, on which amendments have been tabled which are intended to be presented and on which I invite the rapporteur and the representative of the Government to give their views.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-773.ana.u170	Mr President, I am against all the amendments.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-773.ana.u171	Mr President, I agree with the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-773.ana.u172	We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 10,100. I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request for simultaneous voting by electronic procedure, previously made by Senator Santangelo, is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 10,100, tabled by Senators Calderoli and Volpi. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 10,101.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-773.ana.u173	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-773.ana.u174	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-773.ana.u175	CANDIANI (LN-Aut). Mr President, the entire Group of the North Legacy intends to endorse Amendment 10,101.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-773.ana.u176	The Presidency takes note of this. I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of Amendment 10,101, tabled by Senator Calderoli and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Rule 10. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the examination of Article 11, on which amendments have been tabled, which I would ask the authors to explain.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-773.ana.u177	Mr President, I withdraw Amendment 11,103.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-773.ana.u178	The remaining amendments are set out. I call on the rapporteur and the representative of the Government to comment on the amendments under consideration.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-773.ana.u179	Mr President, I am against Amendments 11,100, 11.2 and 11.101. On the other hand, I am in favour of amendment 11,102, when accepted the rewording aimed at adding, after the words: "Autonomous provinces" (a) and (b), the words: "by Trento and Bolzano" (b).
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-773.ana.u180	Mr President, I agree with the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-773.ana.u181	Senator Fravezzi, do you accept the proposed reformulation to Amendment 11,102? FRAVEZZI (Aut (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT)-PSI-MAIE). I welcome you, Mr President. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 11,100. I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request for simultaneous voting by electronic procedure, previously made by Senator Santangelo, is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 11,100, tabled by Senators Calderoli and Volpi. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 11.2, tabled by Senator Malan, identical to amendment 11.101, tabled by Senators Calderoli and Volpi. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 11.102 (correct text), tabled by Senator Fravezzi and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). Amendment 11,103 has been withdrawn. I refer to the vote by a simultaneous vote on Article 11 in the amended text. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the examination of Article 12, on which amendments have been tabled which are intended to be presented and on which I would therefore ask the rapporteur and the representative of the Government to give their views.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-773.ana.u182	Mr President, I am against all the amendments.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-773.ana.u183	Mr President, I agree with the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-773.ana.u184	We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment No 12.100. I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request for simultaneous voting by electronic procedure, previously made by Senator Santangelo, is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 12,100, tabled by Senators Calderoli and Volpi. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 12,101, tabled by Senators Calderoli and Volpi. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Rule 12. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the examination of Article 13, on which amendments have been tabled which are intended to be presented and on which I would therefore ask the rapporteur and the representative of the Government to give their views.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-773.ana.u185	Mr President, I am against all the amendments.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-773.ana.u186	Mr President, I agree with the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-773.ana.u187	We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 13,100. I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request for simultaneous voting by electronic procedure, previously made by Senator Santangelo, is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of Amendment 13,100, tabled by Senators Calderoli and Volpi. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 13,101.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-773.ana.u188	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-773.ana.u189	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-773.ana.u190	D'ALI' (FI-PdL XVII). Mr President, once again it seems to me that an unreasonable negativity has been attributed to an amending proposal which I think is absolutely logical. The contrary opinion on this amendment, in fact, reiterates all the great doubts that we have shown during the debate on the possibility of instrumental use of the legislation. The minor who should be close to reaching the age obtains access to all the favor procedures contained in the legislation, but then, after the completion of the age, is not subject to ordinary procedures, which instead are obliged to observe his fellow adventurers, who for their misfortune are not, for example, seventeen years and ten months old, but have already reached the age of eighteen years. It is clear that what should be a consideration that we share, as a basic idea, because aimed at paying attention to the protection of the child, cannot be extended natural life during, because otherwise would create a clear difference of treatment, depending on the date of birth, between persons who are in the same condition. I would therefore like to ask the rapporteur and the representative of the Government to reflect on their opinion against it, which reveals a possible instrumental use of the legislation, given the conviction of the rapporteur, of the Government and, I must say, also of the majority. However, I still hope, in an incredibly optimistic way, that the majority will make their own opinion beyond that of the rapporteur and the representative of the Government and beyond the Diktats who arrive, through their opinions. I therefore hope that colleagues will agree that it is absolutely essential to avoid the possibility of using, for a few months or a few weeks, a privilege rule in an instrumental way, without, once the socio-anagraphic conditions of normality have occurred with respect to the other cases, following the ordinary procedures laid down for all those who have reached the age of majority and who are therefore in the same condition. I therefore hope that there will be a rethinking of this aspect and that the good faith of the intention of the norm, which is to consider minors and not only to give rise to a possible instrumental use of it, will be recognized indirectly.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-773.ana.u191	On behalf of the Assembly, I greet the teachers and students of the Institute of State Higher Education "Guglielmo Marconi" in Torre Annunziata, in the province of Naples, who are attending our work. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-773.ana.u192	I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of Amendment 13,101, tabled by Senators Calderoli and Volpi. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Rule 13. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the examination of Rule 14, on which amendments have been tabled, which I would ask the authors to explain.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-773.ana.u193	Mr President, the clarification proposed by Amendment No 14,101 seems necessary to me. In fact, if, as has been said and acquired, there is no possibility of rejection for the child, in the mores of recognition of a degree of study there is talk of something else. It is clear that the minor, when he passes to his age, and does not come from an area for which there is a need for international protection, no longer has the right to remain on our national territory. That seems logical enough to me. We protect a child but, when he reaches his age, if he does not come from an area for which international protection is provided, we should still proceed with repatriation. Then, if you have obtained a diploma we can also send it to you, that is not the problem, but this rule is ambiguous with regard to the interpretation of a stay in the national territory. I therefore call for the adoption of this amendment, or, if there is opposition, at least the adoption of an agenda resulting from the transformation of amendment 14,101. This is a clarification, if you want even trivial: when you have reached the age of majority, if you do not come from one of those areas where you need to protect the subject as the various levels of international protection have been activated, he must take note of the need to return to his homeland. I would not like there to be - but certainly there is - speculation on the recognition of the title of study for the purpose of a consequent stay in our national territory.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-773.ana.u194	I call on the rapporteur and the representative of the Government to comment on the amendments under consideration. I would also ask them to comment on the request made by Senator Volpi to transform Amendment 14,101 into the agenda.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-773.ana.u195	I am against all these amendments and on the agenda resulting from the transformation of Amendment No 14.101.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-773.ana.u196	I am in agreement with the rapporteur's opinion.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-773.ana.u197	We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 14,100. I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request for simultaneous voting by electronic procedure, previously made by Senator Santangelo, is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 14,100, tabled by Senators Calderoli and Volpi. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Senator Volpi, in view of the contrary opinion of the rapporteur and the representative of the Government on the agenda, does Amendment 14,101 remain in place? VOLPI (LN-Aut). Yes, ma'am. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. We shall therefore proceed to the vote on Amendment No 14.101.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-773.ana.u198	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-773.ana.u199	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-773.ana.u200	VOLPI (LN-Aut). Mr President, I must say that there is no willingness to accept the simplest and most logical things, even if it is an agenda. I wonder if that will be the attitude with which we will also have to deal with other important measures. It did not seem to me that our amendment was polemical or politically incorrect. Mr President, we do not intend to give up, but the political consideration is clear that we do not want to accept even the most logical things. We will vote in favour of our amendments, and then the political assessments that follow will also be made in the next few days.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-773.ana.u201	I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 14,101, tabled by Senators Calderoli and Volpi. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Rule 14. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the examination of Article 15, on which amendments have been tabled which are intended to be presented and on which I invite the rapporteur and the representative of the Government to give their views.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-773.ana.u202	I am against all these amendments.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-773.ana.u203	I am in agreement with the rapporteur's opinion.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-773.ana.u204	We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment No 15.100. I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request for simultaneous voting by electronic procedure, previously made by Senator Santangelo, is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 15.100, tabled by Senators Calderoli and Volpi. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment No 15.101.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-773.ana.u205	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-773.ana.u206	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-773.ana.u207	VOLPI (LN-Aut). Mr President, I would just like to express my thanks for the usual sensitivity shown to our amending suggestions. Of course, our Group will vote in favour of this amendment.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-773.ana.u208	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-773.ana.u209	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-773.ana.u210	CANDIANI (LN-Aut). Mr President, the members of the Lega Nord Group are calling for their signature to be added to Amendment 15,101.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-773.ana.u211	I take note of that, Senator Candiani. I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 15.101, tabled by Senator Calderoli and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the vote on Rule 15.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-773.ana.u212	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-773.ana.u213	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-773.ana.u214	MALAN (FI-PdL XVII). Mr President, I rise to make an explanation of vote against Article 15 for paragraph 2-b, which says that the unaccompanied foreign minor has the right not to be informed or heard, but to participate, by means of his legal representative, in all judicial and administrative proceedings concerning him and to be heard on the subject. It is therefore envisaged that both the lawyer and the personal listening should be carried out and that a cultural mediator should also be present. If all this were specified in the sense that in all cases in which an Italian citizen has the right to participate through his representative, even the foreign citizen has the same right, one could understand; because however this is already written in article 1, it is not superfluous and it is not a mistake: it means that in cases where - and there are so many - for a practice or a procedure that concerns an Italian citizen, he is not entitled to be heard personally or at most this right has his representative, the minor foreigner instead has the right both to send his representative and to intervene personally, with the addition of the cultural mediator. It is not easy to write and invent such foolish things, but you have succeeded: congratulations to the majority of the government and to the 5 Star Movement, which in turn approves all this.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-773.ana.u215	I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Rule 15. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the examination of Rule 16, on which amendments have been tabled, which I would ask the authors to explain.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-773.ana.u216	Mr President, I have to say to you that your amendments, supported by my miserable signature, especially in the deleted part, are more and more of a reason to be. The only thing we can ask for, in fact, is the deleterious amendment, given the desire to cooperate in improving the text. I would therefore like to thank you for allowing us to vote on deleterious amendments on a bad measure, which the majority has no desire to improve. So let's go quietly, that's okay.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-773.ana.u217	I call on the rapporteur and the representative of the Government to comment on the amendments under consideration.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-773.ana.u218	Mr President, I am against this.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-773.ana.u219	Mr President, I agree with the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-773.ana.u220	We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment No 16.100. I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request for simultaneous voting by electronic procedure, previously made by Senator Santangelo, is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 16,100, tabled by Senators Calderoli and Volpi. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). [[Senator Candiani's comments.]] Senator Candiani, not only does someone not agree to subscribe, but they also vote in dissent, so let's be careful. Let us move on to Amendment No 16.101, on which the 5th Commission has expressed an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-773.ana.u221	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-773.ana.u222	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-773.ana.u223	CANDIANI (LN-Aut). Mr President, I would like to endorse the amendment.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-773.ana.u224	Senator Calderoli, however, does not accept the signature. [[Laughter.]] Senator Volpi, do you insist on voting on the amendment? VOLPI (LN-Aut). Yes, Mr. President. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request for a vote is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). Pursuant to Rule 102- bis of the Rules of Procedure, I call for the vote by simultaneous ballot of Amendment No 16.101, tabled by Senators Calderoli and Volpi. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Rule 16. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the examination of Rule 17, on which an amendment has been tabled which is intended to be presented and on which I invite the rapporteur and the representative of the Government to give its opinion.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-773.ana.u225	Mr President, I am against this.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-773.ana.u226	Mr President, I agree with the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-773.ana.u227	Since no other amendments were tabled on Article 17 other than the deletion of Rule 17,100 tabled by Senators Calderoli and Volpi, we shall proceed to the vote on the retention of the Rule. I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request for simultaneous voting by electronic procedure, previously made by Senator Santangelo, is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I would like to refer to the vote by a simultaneous vote on the maintenance of Rule 17. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the examination of Rule 18, on which an amendment has been tabled which is intended to be presented and on which I invite the rapporteur and the representative of the Government to give its opinion.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-773.ana.u228	Mr President, I am against this.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-773.ana.u229	Mr President, I agree with the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-773.ana.u230	Having not been tabled on Rule 18 other amendments than the deletion of Rule 18,100, tabled by Senators Calderoli and Volpi, we shall proceed to the vote on the retention of Rule 18.100. I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request for simultaneous voting by electronic procedure, previously made by Senator Santangelo, is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of the maintenance of Rule 18. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the examination of Rule 19, on which amendments have been tabled which are intended to be presented and on which I invite the rapporteur and the representative of the Government to give their views.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-773.ana.u231	Mr President, I am against this.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-773.ana.u232	Mr President, I agree with the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-773.ana.u233	We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment No 19,100. I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request for simultaneous voting by electronic procedure, previously made by Senator Santangelo, is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 19.100, tabled by Senators Calderoli and Volpi. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Let us move on to Amendment 19.101, on which the 5th Commission has expressed an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution. VOLPI (LN-Aut). We are asking for the vote. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request for a vote is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). Pursuant to Rule 102- bis of the Rules of Procedure, I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of Amendment 19.101, tabled by Senators Calderoli and Volpi. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Rule 19. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the examination of Article 20, on which amendments have been tabled which are intended to be presented and on which I invite the rapporteur and the representative of the Government to give their views.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-773.ana.u234	Mr President, I am against all the amendments.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-773.ana.u235	Mr President, I agree with the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-773.ana.u236	We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 20,100. I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request for simultaneous voting by electronic procedure, previously made by Senator Santangelo, is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 20,100, tabled by Senators Calderoli and Volpi. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 20.101, tabled by Senators Calderoli and Volpi. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Let us move on to Amendment 20.102, on which the 5th Commission has expressed an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution. VOLPI (LN-Aut). We are asking for the vote. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request for a vote is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). Pursuant to Rule 102-bis of the Rules of Procedure, I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of Amendment 20.102, tabled by Senators Calderoli and Volpi. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Rule 20. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). I would like to point out the nominal vote by simultaneous ballot of the first part of Amendment 20.0.100, tabled by Senators Calderoli and Volpi, up to the words "it is increased by...." (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). The remaining part and amendment 20.0.101 are therefore excluded. Let us move on to Amendment 20.0.102, on which the 5th Commission has expressed an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution. VOLPI (LN-Aut). We are asking for the vote. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request for a vote is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). Pursuant to Rule 102-a of the Rules of Procedure, I would like to refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of Amendment 20.0.102, tabled by Senators Calderoli and Volpi. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Since no other amendments were tabled on Article 21 other than the deletion of Article 21,100 tabled by Senators Calderoli and Volpi, we shall proceed to the vote on the retention of the Rule. I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request for simultaneous voting by electronic procedure, previously made by Senator Santangelo, is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of the maintenance of Article 21. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). Having not been tabled on Rule 22 other amendments than the deletion of Rule 22,100, tabled by Senators Calderoli and Volpi, we shall proceed to the vote on the retention of the Rule. I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request for simultaneous voting by electronic procedure, previously made by Senator Santangelo, is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of the maintenance of Rule 22. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). I call on the rapporteur and the representative of the Government to make their views known on the G22.100 agenda.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-773.ana.u237	I am in favour of this, but I would ask the presenters to use the last sentence: "If these proposals are not transposed, veto the draft budget for 2017 of the European Union", only because the budget has already been approved.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-773.ana.u238	Mr President, I agree with the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-773.ana.u239	Senator De Petris, do you accept the proposed reformulation?
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-773.ana.u240	Mr President, I welcome and insist on the vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-773.ana.u241	I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of the agenda G22.100 (text 2), tabled by Senator De Petris and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). Appreciate the circumstances, postpone the continuation of the discussion of the drafts of law in title to other session.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-773.ana.u242	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-773.ana.u243	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-773.ana.u244	MINEO (Misto-SI-SEL). Mr President, an authoritative commentator today on the pages of the "Corriere della Sera" calls on the government to give way to government normality, that is to say to have a real agenda, particularly on economic issues, and to abandon the sort of religious war introduced for three years by the previous government, according to which Parliament could only vote yes or no to measures agreed extramoenia by the majority of the government, which is also uneven. Another authoritative commentator, this time in the daily newspaper "La Stampa" observes how life takes the task of filling the gaps in politics. In order to understand us, you heard in this House the loud cries against surrogacy, but then two judges in Trento discover that the twins have the right to call parents the two dads, since the Constitution protects the interests of the child as a pre-eminent. To these recommendations I would like to add a third one; on behalf of the Italian Left I urge the Government Gentiloni I should like to thank the rapporteur for his excellent report, Mr President, for his excellent report and for his excellent report. The reasons are simple. The jobs act was a trauma, it was imposed by the Renzi Government with confidence and not only there was then that form of public disfession of the Renzi Government on December 4, but the CGIL collected millions of signatures against that law that did not bring new stable jobs, but greatly increased the precariousness. In particular, the voucher system, according to a study by INCA CGIL, means that these workers at the age of sixty-seven can hope for a maximum pension of 200 euros. Millions of signatures reached, the Constitutional Court endorsed two out of three of these referendums. It is a citizens' right to vote and therefore I strongly urge the Government, which also shows signs of reasonableness, which had been urged and underlined by the commentators I mentioned earlier, to set that date and not to take away from the Italians their right. [[Applause from the Misso-SI-SEL Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-773.ana.u245	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-773.ana.u246	Senator Bencini, she's an abbonata of this phase.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-773.ana.u247	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-773.ana.u248	Mr Bencini (Misto-Idv). I don't understand. I'm sorry, ma'am. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. It is an abbonata: never misses an intervention at the end of the session. Mr Bencini (Misto-Idv). President, colleagues, yesterday Tito Boeri, President INPS, at a conference in Wisdom, argued on pensions and not only, assuming that the EPA, the voluntary pension advance will be required mostly by those who know that it will live little, saying that the mechanism to retire designed by the Renzi Government is more expensive than the hypothesis of outgoing flexibility, elaborated at the same time by INPS. Precisely because it is a twenty-year repayment loan, with interest and insurance payments, in practice you get out at sixty-three years and seven months and you start paying at sixty-seven and seven months, up to eighty-seven and seven months. How many will get to the bottom? Not all of them. That's what the statistic says. For this reason, the loan is secured and there is a state guarantee fund. Boeri argues that being the expensive voluntary EPA, it is possible that it tends to select people who may have a shorter life expectancy, for example those who have health problems. I do not know how much this EPA, this pension advance, will be liked and chosen by workers who are approaching the retirement age, but even if it was chosen only by those who know they are close to passing to the world of more, let's say, I do not repent problems for the coffers, if even the loan is not as reversible as the pension, and therefore the heirs are not called to redo it. In the case of the loan, in fact, once the person dies, the heirs who will receive the pension will not have to repay it precisely because there is insurance. So, I feel somehow I have to stand up for the pensioners, for those who have paid years of contributions to get paid a deferred salary, i.e. the pension. The advance is also anticipated financially by the banks, which require the subscription of insurance for a possible premorience. Therefore, in the event that the pensioner should die on the loan, then in the first ceilings three years in advance or, however, in the following years, but in advance to the life expectancy, which today is about twenty years since he retires, the pension funds, in which they grab the contributions of the pension, will still have a balance, if not a gain in positive, because if the person has no one to pay the pension, that money will no longer be paid. The bank will be refreshed of that part of advance that had not yet been returned through the famous premorience insurance cover. If, on the other hand, the survivor's pension is given to the survivor, it will certainly be lower (because the percentage paid to the survivor is still lower) and, again, the cashiers would not be lost. The point is that we should all - Parliament and the Government - strive to find more and more compatible mechanisms of flexibility for leaving the world of work that guarantee an adequate and economically dignified post-work quality of life and that do not force people to work up to an age that is incompatible with the work they do during their working life.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-773.ana.u249	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-773.ana.u250	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-773.ana.u251	CHAMPOLILLO (M5S). Mr President, yesterday morning, when I heard the cry of sorrow of a family in the old town of Bari, I personally went to them with the Leader of the 5 Star Movement to the Municipality of Bari, Sabino Mangano. The eviction procedure was under way whereby a couple with three minor children, one of whom was disabled, was about to be thrown on the street and abandoned to herself. The father of the boys, having lost his job for months, is no longer able to pay the rent. He personally assured me that he was ready to carry out any kind of occupation in order to secure a home and a future for his family. The seventeen - year - old daughter has serious health problems. If they lose their homes, their parents will be separated from their children. This is the Italian State. Meanwhile, in Bari the mayor Renzianissimo Decaro, having nothing to inaugurate or cameras available, spent his time committing 40,000 euros to carry out a survey on the perception of safety of Bari citizens. In Rome his PD has been dealing with armchairs and congresses for months. The common people, however, like the old Bari family, are reduced to hunger. Ladies and gentlemen, as you know, having always voted against its calendarization, the 5 Star Movement has proposed a bill for the establishment of citizenship income. But you're against it. If Renzi and his PD had supported him, today Bari's family would have had the opportunity to pay the rent and dream of a peaceful future. The rest - the trips to Los Angeles, the fine words of the Oscar award as best non-protagonist actor, Michele Emiliano, on the income of dignity, or the new ones of Renzi on the job of citizenship - are just talk to the wind, an offense to the intelligence of citizens and a malice to those who really need help. We are talking about people who would like to be helped by a state that instead sees him represented only in the papers of the judicial officer on duty, forced to take away their home. This is a fundamental asset and a right not only of a patrimonial nature. In fact, the house is, first of all, a fundamental right of the person. This should be dealt with by policy. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-773.ana.u252	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-773.ana.u253	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-773.ana.u254	ICHINO (PD). Mr President, in this House Senator Mineo today, and yesterday Senator Barozzino (as he had already done in the Commission in the afternoon), spoke of the alleged disastrous effects of the 2015 labour reform and, in particular, of a very serious increase in the abuse of good work. On the contrary, I think it is right to mention only the data available to us. At the level of the employment stock we recorded more than 628,000 regular jobs in 2015 and more than 340,000 in 2016, against negative balances both in 2013 and 2014. Of these (i.e. almost one million more jobs in the two-year period), about two thirds indefinitely. Similar proportions are found in the flow of new recruitments. After forty-five years in which the share of permanent recruitment has been steadily decreasing, up to the minimum level of 16% in 2014, for the first time there has been a clear, drastic, reversal of trend, which has clearly affected the quality of that almost million jobs in more produced over the two years. Of course, to this result also contributed the drastic reduction of the contributory-tax wedge, wanted by the government in 2015 to give a healthy shock to a labour market that could be considered literally heart attack. But instead of taking reason from this to devalue the maneuver made, we should take reason to propose the objective of making structural, permanent, a reduction of the tax wedge contributory, which aligns our country with its major European partners in this respect. As regards the trend of dismissals, compared to the number of recruitments, employers' recessions fall from 6.5 percent in 2014 to 6.1 percent in 2015 and 5.9 percent in 2016. Finally, on the question of good work, I note only that those 130 million vouchers that have been bought and paid during the last year are 0.2 percent compared to the 45 billion hours of regular work done in Italy by a workforce of 22-23 million people. Abuse, of course, there have been, but we are careful not to throw away a big and florid baby with little dirty water. [[Applause from the PD Group and Senator Berger.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-773.ana.u255	The motions, questions and questions received by the Presidency will be published in Annex B to today's report. I recall that the Senate will return to public session today, at 4.30 p.m., on the same agenda. The sitting was closed at 12.58 p.m.
