ParlaMint-IT_2017-02-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-761.ana.u1	The sitting was opened at 16.33 p.m. The Minutes shall be read. Mr Petraglia, Secretary, gave a reading of the Minutes of the sitting of 9 February. PRESIDENT. - The debate is Since there were no comments, the Minutes were approved.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-02-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-761.ana.u2	The list of senators on leave and absent on assignment received from the Senate, as well as further communications to the Assembly, will be published in Annex B to today's Minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-02-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-761.ana.u3	He asked the Vice President of the First Permanent Commission, Senator Torrisi, to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-02-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-761.ana.u4	Mr President, the next item is the debate on the draft law for the conversion of Decree-Law No 244 of 2016, extending and defining deadlines. This decree-law is being examined by the 1st Commission, which is at a very advanced stage in its work. However, it has not been able to complete them, because on some of the proposed amendments we still have to obtain the opinion of the Budget Commission, which worked at the same time this afternoon. This is a complex measure for the heterogeneity of the matter being dealt with. Therefore, although the work in the Commission has been intense, I believe it is necessary to continue to work this afternoon in order to complete the work of the Commission by this evening and tomorrow morning to be ready for this House. My request is to allow the Commission to work and therefore to defer the work of this House to this subject.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-02-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-761.ana.u5	We take note of your request, so the Commission will be able to continue working to finish its work hopefully in the evening and allow the House to examine this point at 9.30 a.m. tomorrow morning.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-02-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-761.ana.u6	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-02-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-761.ana.u7	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-02-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-761.ana.u8	MALAN (FI-PdL XVII). Mr President, yesterday in the direction of the Democratic Party the former President of the Council, Matteo Renzi, touched on an internal problem in the Senate, stigmatizing the fact that, after a long time since President Finocchiaro's resignation, the 1st Commission does not yet have a President. This would, in his view, be a demonstration of the opposition's inability to make concrete proposals. I allow myself to quote what he has said, contextualizing it. The passage was about the fact that the populist can afford to criticize and just scream, but the populist cannot afford to criticize and that's all; you have to know how to say some yes, you have to make some proposals. This is the beginning of his reasoning. He then goes on to say that the point is that the front of the no did not have a shared strategy. And he adds: do you remember the authoritative words of those who said that a new constitutional reform would take place in six months? I say that after more than two months it is not that constitutional reform has not been done - which was obvious - and it is not that that constitutional reform has not been framed; it is that the President of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs has not been elected to the Senate, so it is clear that we cannot rely on a positive alternative proposal. We know very well why the President of the 1st Commission was not elected: because the resigning President, who has been appointed Minister, comes from the Democratic Party, it is clear that that post will be occupied (unless surprises) by a representative of the Democratic Party; we have always respected the pause of reflection (for the truth already long enough) of the Democratic Party, but that now the secretary of that party comes to rebuke the opposition because his party, probably with its broad approval (because it is not possible to do many things outside of his will), is blocking this appointment, it is something that really goes beyond everything else. It goes beyond the fact that President Renzi, after promising that he would leave politics if he lost the referendum, is still there. And the fact that he decides to talk about these issues precisely on the day when European bodies certify that Italy is the taillight in terms of growth within all the many countries of the European Union, is really too much. At this point, it is right of all of us to ask for election. This without taking away anything from the esteem and ability to conduct the work of Vice President Torrisi, who is now playing this role. [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII and Senator Buccarella]] But that our respect, precisely for the Democratic Party as such, is used in this way is truly intolerable, even for Matteo Renzi. [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-02-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-761.ana.u9	Senator Malan, your Group will be able, even at the Conference of the Leaders, to urge the conduct of this election.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-02-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-761.ana.u10	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-02-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-761.ana.u11	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-02-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-761.ana.u12	CRIMI (M5S). Mr President, I am speaking on the order of business to denounce a fact which, in our view, is very serious and which concerns the Democratic Party which, by now, has only the name, which is deceptively named after it. We are talking about the replacement in the Committee of Constitutional Affairs of the two Senators Gotor and Migliavacca only because they had expressed the will to vote, exercising that freedom that you defend so much, that famous non-binding mandate, an amendment that concerned the suspension of the law concerning the retirement age of magistrates. We are talking about a law that reduces the pensionable age of the judges so far in force, which is called for an extension because its reduction would, at this time, cause a disaster in the judicial offices and, in particular, in the apical offices. However, I would like to add another element concerning the Naples Public Prosecutor's Office. We remember, in fact, that the Public Prosecutor of Naples, because of that law that you wrote, will be discovered at the end of the month. The prosecutor of Naples will cease his mandate mandatory because of that law, which you have established, however, that for some friends he will remain unchanged. The Naples Attorney, weird case, what investigation do you have at this moment in charge? The investigation of the biggest corruption deal that could be in Italy: the investigation of the Council, the investigation involving Minister Lotti and the commander of the Carabinieri. That inquiry is in the hands of the Naples prosecutor, who will be replaced at the end of the month if no action is taken. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] He will be replaced by an appointed prosecutor and probably, since there is nothing to hide and it is all public, will also come out the name of someone close to the Government, of a head of Cabinet of the Minister who returns to be the prosecutor in Naples, after having done for four years the head of Cabinet of the Minister, to protect the interests of the Government, its Ministers, Renzi and its associates like Lotti. That is shameful, Mr President! [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-02-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-761.ana.u13	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-02-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-761.ana.u14	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-02-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-761.ana.u15	DE PETRIS (Misto-SI-SEL). Mr President, as Senator Malan pointed out yesterday in the first Commission, we did not protest, but put the question of Secretary Renzi's very unpleasant intervention on the matter of the failure to elect the President of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs. I say this very calmly because it is in the hands of both this House and the previous meetings of the leaders of the groups, how many times we in the opposition have posed the problem of urgent action to arrive at a solution and, therefore, the election of the President of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs. This is not out of distrust in the current regent, Senator Torrisi, who, on the contrary, I would like to thank here for the work he is doing at this time, even with great wisdom of which I intend to give him credit. But we must realize that it is absolutely no longer tolerable for President Renzi, after having tried for two years to silence the Senate and then to reduce it to an absolutely useless body, even if he has lost the referendum, still tries to throw mud on this institution and its members. The fact that the President of the 1st Commission has not yet been elected as a demonstration of our inability to articulate any proposal is beginning to become truly intolerable. I would not like to use here, to refer to former President Renzi, a phrase that Crozza used often on the evenings of Sanremo, but perhaps it would be good for him to look in the mirror. I do not use the expression to which I alluded, President, because I am a kind and polite person, but President Renzi should realize that by now all the things he says and says have a completely opposite effect and create absolute unpopularity among citizens. He was the only one who proved so inept and unable to rule this country, because he left us in a lot of trouble. We have just finished discussing in the Commission the case of the Provinces and the situation of an institutional disaster which, moreover, affects people's lives, as happened in the case of Abruzzo. Well, after he, in these three and a half years, spent everything that was to be spent on tips and electoral bonuses, without any construct, he now allows himself to intervene again on an issue that is entirely dependent on his Party and, indeed, - I say even more - on vetoes placed directly by the majority, by its majority within the PD, on the election of some members of his Party to the presidency of the 1st Commission. That is why it is absolutely intolerable. Having said that, I ask you, Mr President, since President Grasso will be listening to us and since in a few hours we will be finishing the debate on the draft bill for a long time in the Commission, that the Commission be convened immediately for the election of its President.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-02-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-761.ana.u16	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-02-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-761.ana.u17	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-02-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-761.ana.u18	FALANGA (ALA-SCLP). Mr President, I would like to speak briefly because I believe that Senator Crimi has already done so on the subject of the retirement age of judges, that is, on what has happened in the Committee on Constitutional Affairs. President Zanda said that while there is no principle of loyalty in this House, a senator was removed from office in the Commission because that principle of loyalty would apply there. In fact, I do not think there is any possibility of making such an unfair statement on the part of a leading leader of the largest party in our Parliament. I do not enter into the specificity of the Neapolitan prosecutor's office, although there is no doubt that many judicial offices will remain uncovered for how long and with what effects on the justice service of our country. I have little interest in Tizio, Caio or Sempronio remaining in service, but I would say that the amendments, and in particular the amendment by Senator Cuomo in addition to some others coming from Forza Italia, Senators Caliendo and Palma, gave an indication of the presence of a quite large majority in this Parliament in favour of creating a balance which, in recent times, had failed. Moreover, it is thought that while, in one verse, age has risen to participate in the competition in the judiciary, on the other, it has shortened the one to retire, with this also working in contempt of the life of man, which has lengthened over time. The history of the retirement age of judges is long and full of measures that have taken place since 1946. There have been a lot of regulatory action. Already Decree-Law No 46 of 1 February 1992 provided that retirement could be postponed, with the consent of the person concerned, to seventy-two years. This decree-law, however, had a short life because, during the same year, it was repealed. A more stable solution was found in 1993, when the Supreme Council of the judiciary, after initial resistance, agreed on the applicability of the provision in Article 16 of Legislative Decree No 503, which provided for the possibility of a two-year detention of all civil servants. A further increase in the retirement age was achieved, for the judiciary's staff alone, by Law No 289 of 27 December 2002, with the approval of an amendment, which I signed, which provided for the possibility of extending detention in service until the age of seventy-five. I also recall the speech I made to the House of Deputies in support of my amendment, during which I mentioned the retirement age of notaries, university professors and - alas - cardinals, who retire at the age of eighty. It was not clear why a man of seventy, still in the midst of his activity, should be put at rest. Eximio President Zanda, the age of junior judges has passed. We need the experience and wisdom of magistrates who have trained and served our country for years. With this operation you wanted to eliminate, that is, obscure, the breakages present within your Parliamentary Group, giving space to the need to appear, who knows why, always compact and on the same line. But that is not true - you have now been disarmed - and, in order to give the feeling that there is no break between you, sink a disposition wanted by some senators of your party. How do you do that? With an incorrect institutional alchemy, because you take away from a senator the possibility to perform the function he is invested in. This is not good for the image of this Parliament and the Democratic Party. This is not good either for us who will not have the opportunity in this House to discuss such a sensitive issue (although you, Mr Zanda, have spoken to the press about loyalty in the Commission). We know, in fact, that you will shortly be putting the question of confidence in the measure, which will therefore be approved without our political side being allowed to speak. You don't play with these alchemies with justice. I believe - and I always say this - that three are the pillars on which the democracy of a people is based: school, health and justice. These three pillars are not fooled and you, on the other hand, are built on the same institutional alchemies that offend our Parliament. For these reasons, I say to you: be careful; you are on a wrong path that does not lead anywhere and that will give the possibility to those in our country who protest - and there are many - to have the upper hand on wisdom, which has always governed our country.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-02-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-761.ana.u19	On behalf of the Assembly, I greet the teachers and students of the Institute of Higher Education Ernesto Balducci in Pontassieve, in the province of Florence, who are attending our work. Welcome. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-02-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-761.ana.u20	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-02-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-761.ana.u21	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-02-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-761.ana.u22	FUCKSIA (Mixed). Mr President, on the last point, I would like not to talk about the age of the magistrates but about the responsibility of the judges themselves. He will be happy Davigo or who for him who insists, in spite of everything, to have the privileges not of chaste, but of "castissima," and with the capital "c." With regard to Senator Crimi's first speech, because confusion and not wisdom reign supreme, I did not understand if it was a praise to the Democratic Party for having imitated the good example of the 5 Star Movement, because in fact, in this case, the extromissions of the Commission and of the Group were made of arbitrariness and imperialism. So, in the end, you always find yourself not on merits and wisdom, but on those who have longer ears. This is very bad at this stage, as it would be very bad to go to the vote of confidence on the milleproroghe. I hope that, if we are to come to the end of this parliamentary term, we will end by discussing at least with a minimum of reasonableness and abandoning hypocrisy, false applauses and winks that are not addressed to the substance of the issues, but to other matters.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-02-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-761.ana.u23	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-02-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-761.ana.u24	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-02-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-761.ana.u25	ZANDA (PD). Mr President, allow me to say that I have not quite understood the debate that has developed at this first stage of this afternoon's work. Two issues were raised. As far as the Presidency of the 1st Commission is concerned, it seems to me that you have already responded correctly and precisely. Groups with issues to raise do so at the Conference of the Leaders. There they can be debated and faced. Then the issue of the functioning of the 1st Commission and, exactly, the replacement was raised. I can speak on the subject by saying something very frankly and clearly: the PD Group has not done and does not make any replacements for the authorities. [[Laughter from the M5S Group]] It's not funny, Senator Crimes! AIROLA (M5S). You're lying! PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator, have Senator Zanda do his surgery. ZANDA (PD). My word is much more reliable than yours. [[Applause from the PD Group]] AIROLA (M5S). You're lying. That's a lie! PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator Airola, take your seats. Stay where you are. Senator Crimi also mentioned names in his speech, and no one tipped it off. Let the senator continue in his speech. [[Comments of Senator Airola]] Senator Airola, I'm calling you back to order. Have a seat. AIROLA (M5S). The country must know the truth about Mr. Zanda!
ParlaMint-IT_2017-02-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-761.ana.u26	Senator Airola, I've already called you to order. Senator Crimes has calmly said the things he thought he was saying. So allow President Zanda to say what he says about it. ZANDA (PD). See, Airola... AIROLA (M5S). When you're lying, I don't listen! You're a liar! PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator Airola, don't make me make any more decisions. I beg the quaestors to help the presidency. Senator Zanda, speak to the presidency.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-02-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-761.ana.u27	I turn to you and please tell Senator Airola that when she yells like an obsessed, she can see from her screams that she's telling lies. [[Senator Airola's lively protests]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-02-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-761.ana.u28	Senator Zanda, who has the most wisdom, use it. Please.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-02-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-761.ana.u29	ZANDA (PD). You can see that, having no arguments, the only thing you can do is scream and insult. [[Applause from the PD Group]] This is the only thing - we've known for four years now - that Senator Airola can do: scream and insult, and that's it. [[Applause from the PD Group. Comments from the M5S Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-02-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-761.ana.u30	Let us return to the substance of the matter.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-02-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-761.ana.u31	ZANDA (PD). I come to the substance of the matter, having clarified the facts. In the meantime, I would like to say to Senator Falanga that he has made a point of making statements in the Commission on loyalty in this House that I have never done. I never talked about this issue the way he reported it. I don't share what Falanga said. Then I would ask my fellow Members, especially when speaking in this House, to speak with knowledge of the issues they are talking about. [[Comments from the M5S Group]] FALANGA (ALA-SCLP). Mr President, you cannot allow that to happen! ZANDA (PD). You can't intervene without knowing what we're dealing with.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-02-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-761.ana.u32	Senators, I would not want a sitting without a vote to become a sitting with excessive agitation. Senator Falanga, you did your speech. Now I beg Senator Zanda to do his own, even using the wisdom of the case.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-02-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-761.ana.u33	I say instead to Senator Crimi that he has made a great meatloaf, putting together decisions that, according to him, could be taken by the Supreme Council of the judiciary, intentions that there would be regarding political decisions taken by a parliamentary group in the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and making illations that had - as has been seen - only the political objective of sending mud spatters on the Democratic Party Group. Then I would like to say this to Senator Crimi: take an example from us. You have been affected for six months by events for which we could stand up every day in this House and tell you about it, but we do not do so because we are different from you. [[Applause from the PD Group]] AIROLA (M5S). Look at the presidency, Zanda!
ParlaMint-IT_2017-02-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-761.ana.u34	Senator Airola, you've already been called to order. Senator Zanda, please address the presidency.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-02-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-761.ana.u35	Therefore, it is they who must take an example from us and know that politics must have limits, that they are the limits of truth, and that political insinuation really sucks. Allow me to say that. [[Applause from the PD Group]] AIROLA (M5S). Let the people you sent away speak. Ask Mineo where you sent him. Montevecchi (M5S). I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-02-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-761.ana.u36	Senator Airola, you need to speak to your group leader. He's already been called to order once and I don't want to have to call you again. AIROLA (M5S). You're a salesman. Shame on you! PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator Airola, that's enough! She asked to speak to Senator Montevecchi and as a Holding Company she has the right to speak. After that we should respond to Senator Torrisi's request and the Presidency intends to authorise the convening of the 1st Commission. I call Senator Montevecchi.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-02-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-761.ana.u37	Mr President, for once I would like to stigmatize Senator Zanda's language. [[Ironic comments from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-02-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-761.ana.u38	The Presidency has also tried to steer the debate properly. Do you know why? Because we probably went beyond the lines a few times, but we were legitimate, as Senator Zanda feels legitimate today. So we open a new era in which everyone feels legitimate sometimes to go beyond the lines. Having said that, Senator Crimi has expressed a more than legitimate opinion; knowing Senator Crimi, I imagine that he has expressed it not going beyond the lines, certainly saying something strong, but in this House Members are also entitled to say strong things, otherwise we would live under a regime. Fortunately we are at liberty, everyone is free to express their own opinion and their own point of view and I do not believe that they deserve the reply with the epilogue out of the lines that Senator Crimes received in this circumstance. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-02-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-761.ana.u39	I inform you that the first Commission is authorized to convene at 5.15 p.m. to continue the examination of the Multipronge Decree-Law. If there are any requirements and opinions within the competence of the Budget Commission, I call on President Tonini to use the afternoon profitably, so that in the evening we can have what is useful to the House to continue tomorrow in its work.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-02-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-761.ana.u40	The motions, questions and questions received by the Presidency will be published in Annex B to today's report.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-02-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-761.ana.u41	The Senate will meet again tomorrow, Wednesday 15 February, in two public sessions, the first at 9.30 a.m. and the second at 16.30, with the following agenda: (See agenda) The sitting was closed at 5.06 p.m.
