ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-782.ana.u1	The sitting was opened at 16.02 p.m. The Minutes shall be read. Mr Volpoli, Secretary, read the Minutes of the afternoon sitting of the previous day. PRESIDENT. - The debate is Since there were no comments, the Minutes were approved.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-782.ana.u2	The list of senators on leave and absent on assignment received from the Senate, as well as further communications to the Assembly, will be published in Annex B to today's Minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-782.ana.u3	The next item is the question and questions. I note that, at the request of the petitioners, the reply to question 3-00166, presented by Senator Davico, and the conduct of the question 2-00427, presented by Senator Ferrara Mario and other senators, are postponed to another session. Question 3-02267 will therefore be raised on the reception of immigrants seeking asylum from Pakistan and Afghanistan in Friuli-Venezia Giulia. The representative of the Government may answer this question.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-782.ana.u4	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, with the question on the agenda, Senator Fasiolo draws the attention of the Minister of the Interior to the situation of the reception of asylum seekers in the province of Gorizia, asking for full implementation of the new national system outlined in Legislative Decree No 142 of 2015. It should be noted that in recent months, in the province of Gorizia and in particular in the capital, there has been a significant increase in the influx of asylum seekers, especially Afghan and Pakistani citizens, from the so-called Balkan route. As a result, the prefecture has repeatedly concerned the mayors of the Province in order to identify reception facilities in the various municipal territories that could, on the one hand, allow a fairer distribution of asylum seekers and, on the other hand, avoid the strong concentrations of presences especially in the CARA of Gradisca d'Isonzo, which in recent months hosts as a rule about 530 people. At the moment, the municipalities hosting asylum seekers, in a number proportionate to the size of the population resident in their respective territories, are 6, for a total number of 81 presences. In the capital, however, there are two reception facilities (one with hub functions), respectively for 96 and 160 seats. As for the temporary reception centers, the only Municipality that, at the moment, has allowed to activate on its territory a structure is that of Turriaco, where it was possible to set up, from 13 February last, new reception places for a maximum capacity of 12 seats, thanks to the restructuring of two apartments of state property carried out with funds made available by the Ministry of the Interior. Moreover, with regard to the SPRAR network, there are two projects that are currently funded: one is owned by the Municipality of Monfalcone, for a total of 20 seats, and the other refers to the Argo project, for a total of 47 seats, already managed by the Province of Gorizia, but in the phase of disposal following the cessation of the functions of the Province itself and the unwillingness manifested by the Municipality of Gorizia to continue its activity. In this latter regard, it should be noted that initiatives are still in place, in particular by the Municipalities of Staranzano and Romans d'Isonzo, to continue the project activity through the involvement of several local authorities participating in the Alto Isontino District Area. Of the remaining 15 municipalities that currently participate neither in the extraordinary reception arranged by the prefecture, nor in the project organized within the SPRAR, some have manifested their absolute opposition to host migrants, while the others, while declaring themselves available to a collaboration, have however announced that they do not have public real estate to be able to use for the purposes of the reception of asylum seekers. In this regard, the prefecture of Gorizia, based on the lines drawn up by the reception plan signed in concert by the Ministry of the Interior and the ANCI, of which I will say shortly, has drawn up and published a call for tenders for the finding on the free market of private structures or buildings to be allocated to the establishment of temporary reception centres, for a total number of 600 places. Finally, it is pointed out that about fifty asylum seekers are hosted free of charge at facilities available to Caritas of Gorizia and that, in any case, they are not at present migrants without accommodation. After this brief overview of the situation in the province of Gorizia, we come more generally to what happens on the national territory. The Ministry of the Interior is trying to carry forward the new national plan of reception signed with the ANCI that, moving from a system of regional quotas, can give rise, even within the individual Regions, to a distribution of migrants more balanced, proportionate and sustainable between the different municipalities. The plan therefore focuses on the principle of widespread acceptance, in the belief that it is the most suitable, on the one hand, to ensure greater effectiveness of the inclusion paths and, on the other, to reduce the impact of the migration phenomenon on the social fabric of the country. This - I repeat - is the principle on which it is based. This line of action is pursued in a framework of partnership with the representatives of the world of territorial autonomy, with a view to structural intervention, i.e. outside the emerging logics that have also been widely practiced in the past. In this collaborative context, the support measures adopted last year in favour of the municipalities involved in the assistance of migrants are also included. It is 100 million euros which, in the near future, will be distributed among the municipalities concerned on the basis of an interministerial decree already adopted. This new approach to the governance of the reception system will allow, among other things, to archive the experience of the large centres to which still today is being resorted as an extreme ratio in those contexts characterized by a only partial response of the local institutions to the needs of prompt reception of migrants. The cornerstone of this widespread reception strategy lies in the further strengthening of the SPRAR network, that is, the network managed by the mayors together with the qualified bodies of the third sector and financed almost all (95 percent) by the Ministry of the Interior. A further aspect should also be highlighted. In the knowledge that one of the inescapable conditions to ensure the fluidity of the reception system consists in the reduction of the times of conclusion of administrative and judicial procedures of recognition of international protection, the Government has included in the recent decree-law n. 13 of 2017 a series of measures of acceleration and simplification, among which the recruitment, by the Ministry of the Interior, of 250 units of specialized staff to be allocated to the territorial commissions and the national commission on the right of asylum, in order to confer more professionalism and stability to these bodies and, in this sense, to widen the profiles of guarantee for the audit subjects. Similarly, although the establishment in 14 courts of as many specialised sections on immigration, international protection and free movement of citizens of the European Union certainly fulfils a need for speed which also reflects the requirements of governance, it cannot be overlooked more generally as the specialised sections and the shortening of time will have a positive impact on a qualified and timely assessment of any rights that may exist. I would also like to stress that the aforementioned decree-law has intervened on another problem that has emerged in recent years, which, especially where it lasted for a long time, can have significant effects on the dignity of persons: that of the inactivity of asylum seekers during the period in which they are hosted in reception centres, pending the outcome of the international protection procedure. In relation to this aspect, the measure provides in particular that the prefects, in agreement with the municipalities, promote any initiative useful to promote the use of applicants for international protection, on a voluntary and free basis, in carrying out activities with a social character in favour of local communities, in order to facilitate their integration into the social fabric of the place where they are hosted. To this end, the municipalities will be able to prepare projects to be financed from European resources for immigration and asylum.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-782.ana.u5	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-782.ana.u6	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-782.ana.u7	PHASE (PD). Mr President, I would like to begin by thanking the Under-Secretary of Information. All I can do is welcome the widespread response that is also used, among other things, by Decree-Law No 13 of 2017, which you have illustrated and which provides answers to the needs of immigrants. The increase is always in our territories. Although in fact there is no longer a real significant Balkan route, daily from the Tarvisian area come from the rest of Europe flows that are small, but constant; on average on Gorizia, from yesterday 7 to 14 today; daily, about ten. Surely, therefore, the answer that you gave, the SPRAR offer, the increasing attention paid by the municipalities to the SPRAR, to the widespread reception, is a fundamental aspect, which has also been recalled by the urgent provisions referred to in the aforementioned Decree-Law n. 13. This is a fundamental element and I regret that some municipalities - few in truth - have denied the reception, especially for significant reasons, for the real lack of hospitality environments. As for other aspects, such as the progressive elimination of CARA, it would really be a sign of civilization to have absolutely no more. I also welcome the activity that is taking place in some municipalities of our territory, which are aimed at migrants to produce activities such as gardening or of various kinds in order to be able to enhance their skills. This must also be a commitment for the near future. There may still be some critical aspects, but the picture, which is now emerging, is intended to address this problem by considering it as a real opportunity and not an emerging logic. One phase is over and another one is opening up: for this very reason I want to express my deepest appreciation. In the same way, I hope that, where there is already a reception centre for asylum seekers (CARA), as in the reality of Gradisca, we will try not to give life to return centres, because there is a territorial sensitivity that - in my opinion - must be absolutely respected. The fight against illegal immigration is the other great commitment that we are going to pursue through the legislative text, which we will convert into law. I thank the representative of the Government once again for his comprehensive response, also appreciating what has been done by our Prefecture and the territorial commission, which operates without time limits and in a truly extraordinary way. It is therefore very important that the territorial committees should also be strengthened, given the 250 specialized staff units which are ready to be employed and which will have to be another resource and another element of enrichment.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-782.ana.u8	The question on the agenda is thus exhausted.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-782.ana.u9	The motions, questions and questions received by the Presidency will be published in Annex B to today's report.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-782.ana.u10	The Senate will meet again in two public sessions on Tuesday, 14 March, the first at 11 a.m. and the second at 4.30 p.m., with the following agenda: (See agenda) The sitting was closed at 16.18 p.m.
