ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-889.ana.u1	The sitting is open (9:34 a.m.). The Minutes shall be read. Mr Volpoli, Secretary, gave a reading of the Minutes of the sitting of 28 September. PRESIDENT. - The debate is Since there were no comments, the Minutes were approved.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-889.ana.u2	The list of senators on leave and absent on assignment received from the Senate, as well as further communications to the Assembly, will be published in Annex B to today's Minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-889.ana.u3	I would warn you that qualified votes can be taken in the course of today's sitting by electronic means. Therefore, from this moment the period of 20 minutes from the notice provided for in Article 119, paragraph 1 of the Regulation (9:38 hours) begins.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-889.ana.u4	The next item is the debate on document LVII, No 5-a. The rapporteur, Senator Guerrieri Paleotti, asked for permission to carry out the oral report. No comments were received, the request was accepted. I therefore call the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-889.ana.u5	Mr President, Ministers, Senators and Senators, I would like to start by reminding you that with the Update Note to the Economic and Financial Document, the Government updates the economic and public finance forecasts contained in the Economic and Financial Document, presented in April, together with the policy objectives, the latter also in view of the recommendations approved by the Council of the European Union. The DEF update operation therefore serves to draw up the boundaries of the maneuver and measures contained in the Budget Act, which should be approved by 20 October. Along with the Update Note to the DEF 2017, the Government transmitted to the Chambers the report to the Parliament, drawn up pursuant to Article 6 of Law No 243 of 24 December 2012, with which it illustrates the update of the return plan towards the medium-term objective, already authorised by the DEF 2017 approval resolutions. In a nutshell, it can be said that the data contained in the Update Note outline two positive developments: on the one hand, the Italian economy consolidates its expansion and grows more than expected; on the other hand, the relationship between public debt and gross domestic product, which has a particular strategic value for a whole series of reasons that I will clarify later, decreases already from this year and is expected to continue to decrease over the entire period covered by the Update Note. We come first of all to the macroeconomic framework, which is particularly favourable: the world economy has strengthened in all areas of the world, including the euro area, which has grown with particular intensity thanks to the highly expansionary monetary policies of the European Central Bank. The Italian economy has benefited from this favourable cyclical trend and is expected to grow by 1.5% in 2017, having already gained 1'1.2 percent in the first half of this year. This is the tenth consecutive quarter in which Italy's GDP shows the positive sign and the ongoing recovery represents the longest expansion phase of the last two decades. Compared to the past recovery phases, however, its dynamics are still slow and continue to be lower than the average of our European partners, even if the distance is shrinking. However, the very positive figure remains this year of the acceleration of growth, accompanied by a relative spread of growth dynamics, from manufacturing industry to private services. Higher and more stable growth is, of course, the result of the most favourable international and European framework and the large liquidity creation generated by the unconventional monetary policies implemented by all central banks in the most advanced area - last, in order of time, the ECB - since March 2015. But among these determining factors - it must be added immediately - are the reforms and policies put in place in Italy in recent years and, in particular, the measures carried out by the Government in this last year, such as the revival of investments and measures to restore the smooth functioning of the banking system. According to the trend picture in the Update Note, the Italian economy would grow by 1.2% in 2018 and 2019. The projections of the policy framework indicate a more favourable continuation of the growth rate in 2018 and 2019 at rates equal to this year, i.e. 1.5% over the two years. The forecasts of consensus at European and international level are more cautious and identify in the two years following 2107 a growth slowdown of 0.2-0.3 percentage points for both the euro area and our economy. As you know, it is not easy to judge these programmatic projections, given the high uncertainty and geopolitical risks facing the near future. It can be said, however, that for 2018 the international economic framework will remain favourable and, therefore, can continue to support the dynamics of expansion of the Italian economy as foreseen in the Update Note. For 2019, however, the expected slowdown at European and international level means that only a decisive recovery in Italian domestic demand will be able to achieve the growth objective of the policy framework. In this case, the driving force could be investment, both public and private. Government forecasts should accelerate both the expenditure on machinery and equipment, which would benefit from the incentives of the Industry 4.0 plan and the residential ones, the purchases of houses, which should grow with a relative greater dynamism. In this respect, it should be noted that recently there are indications of a structural strengthening of domestic demand for machinery and come for this year, according to ISTAT, from the indicators derived from business surveys and direct surveys on the judgments and expectations of entrepreneurs. As far as budgetary manoeuvre is concerned, it will - as is well known - be around EUR 20 billion in total, most of which will be used to eliminate the VAT increases planned in 2018, which cost about EUR 15.6 billion. Approximately 10 billion will come from the biggest deficit planned in 2018 and as many from new measures for about 0.5 points of GDP (divided in 0.2 points in terms of spending cuts and 0.3 with new revenues), especially with a new close to evasion, from e-invoicing among private individuals to other measures under study. For the expenditure, it would essentially be new interventions on the Ministries and the central administration. It is clear that the resources thus found remain limited and must therefore be concentrated on a few targeted objectives, which are indicated in the Update Note respectively in some interventions for the revival of investment, both public and private, in other employment interventions, starting from the announced intervention on the cost of labour with contributory reductions to support youth employment, and in policies for social inclusion, through the strengthening of measures to combat poverty. In this respect, I would like to stress that putting young people and their employment at the heart of economic policy action is in itself a very significant gesture for a country that - as we know - forms young people with a high level of competence and then exports them without being able to import equally valuable ones. I come to the public finance framework. Overall, the Update Note presents a better trend than expected in the April DEF, also thanks to a more favourable macroeconomic framework - as I mentioned earlier -. In particular, the Note estimates that net programmatic debt in 2018 will be equal to 1.6% compared to 2.1% in 2017, thanks to the cyclical recovery and the reduction of interest expenditure. At the same time, the Government plans to increase net debt in 2018 by more than 0.5 points compared to its trend. It should be stressed that limiting the increase in the government deficit to 1.6% of GDP, although it is likely that the European Commission would have accepted up to 1.8%, is a concrete sign that the government intends to accelerate the reduction of the budget deficit in the following years, as outlined in the Update Note. Net debt would in fact increase to 1.2% in 2019 and 0.2% in 2020, reaching a substantial balance of budget at this point. Also for the structural balance, the improvement planned for next year is lower than that indicated in the April DEF. The structural deficit will be reduced by 0.3% in 2018 compared to the forecast 0.8%. A particularly significant figure is - according to the Note - that the ratio of debt stock to GDP would decrease already from this year, from 132 percent in 2016 to 131.6 percent in 2017, and then to 129.9 percent in 2018. At the end of the programming horizon, the ratio would be 123.9 percent. It should be recalled, in this regard, that for 2015 ISTAT, in the audited accounts, experienced a slight reduction in debt, which has risen to 131.5 percent of GDP (from 131.8 percent in the previous year). These debt stock reduction results would be achieved through both increasing primary surpluses over time, the proceeds of privatisation, and the acceleration of nominal growth (from 2.1% expected this year to 3.1 percent in 2018 and 3.4% in 2019-2020). In this respect, the negative surprise of these months, which has come precisely from inflation, has remained well below the expected values, following both the trend towards the revaluation of the euro, which has reduced the cost of imported goods, and the extremely modest increase in wages. It could be argued that the reduction in the ratio of debt stock to GDP is initially only worth a few decimal places. But it must be reiterated that the decline in the ratio, albeit slight, is highly significant, because this reversal of the trend, after years of uninterrupted growth, is the signal expected both from the markets and from Brussels. The other reason why it is important that in 2017 the ratio of debt to national income is lower than in 2016 and continues to decrease is that at the end of October the European Central Bank will let know how it intends to reduce the purchases of government bonds, after having bought for about 2,000 billion euros, of which almost 300 billion issued by Rome. The end of quantitative easing (QE) is a certain fact, while its timing and modalities are still to be defined. This is another reason why our economy, given that the election season will start in a few months' time, will have to be able to present itself fully credible at the end of QE. It should also be borne in mind that maintaining such a credible, though gradual, path of debt consolidation would also have positive effects on the potential role that we could play, as an important country of the European Union, in the negotiations that are about to open, after the German elections, for a rethinking and a desirable relaunch of the integration process. To sum up, the public finance objectives of the DEF Update Note are consistent with the Government's will to balance fiscal sustainability and support for economic recovery and appear compatible with the approach set out by the European institutions, aimed at using wider margins of discretion in assessing compliance with European rules, also in order to ensure the so-called fiscal instance, i.e. a result of overall fiscal policy for the euro area that is appropriate to the current growth environment. The Government, in confirming its commitment to reduce the general government deficit and debt stock in relation to GDP in 2017 and the following years, also submitted to the Chambers the report to the Parliament, drawn up pursuant to Article 6 of Law No 243 of 24 December 2012, with which it asked the Chambers themselves for permission to deviate from the return path towards the medium-term objective (balance-sheet in structural terms), in order to achieve a balanced budget in 2020, shifting by one year compared to April in the DEF. As is well known, the national law provides that any temporary deviation of the structural balance from the policy objective is permitted in the event of exceptional events and subject to Parliament's approval by an absolute majority, while at the same time indicating the return plan in relation to the medium-term objective. This plan can also be updated if, in relation to the evolution of the economic cycle, the Government decides to make changes to it. In view of this last need, it has rightly been considered appropriate to require the European Commission, while remaining within the Community parameters and constraints, a delay in time and a slowdown in the path of consolidation of public accounts and, therefore, to make use of additional resources and of all the margins available to prepare a budgetary maneuver that includes measures for the growth and support of citizens' incomes. Among other things, the European Commission itself - as I have already pointed out - is moving along this line because of the need to give greater breath and momentum to the growth of the euro area and the European Union as a whole. The framework presented in the Update Note and the report is thus also defined in the European Commission over the last few months, although the European judgment will only come - as we know - with the draft budget to be sent by 15 October. To conclude, I think it is important to stress the dual objective that the Government gives to the next budget law: a more ambitious aim on the growth side and a decisive start to the reduction of the debt ratio. The data contained in the Update Note - as I have tried to argue in my report - provide a confirmation that the direction taken is the right one. All this is positive, but it does not mean that we can be satisfied. More needs to be done and the imperative is to further accelerate growth and make its effects visible in terms of new substantial employment, especially of young people. But to grow more and more quickly means to boost productivity and technical progress in our economy in the medium term. It is a long road - as we know - that has no shortcuts and it is certainly not a shortcut to take the path of increased public expenditure in deficit. We have already done so in the past, with always negative and disappointing results. The acceleration of growth is an operation to be accompanied by a narrow budgetary policy, that prepares the ground for new and incisive reforms, also because next year - as I have already said - with the gradual exhaustion of quantitative easing, the public accounts must be placed in absolute security zone. Only in this way will we be no longer seen, with a perception that of course must be judged excessive, as a country at risk in Europe. It is therefore an important moment that will characterize the last budgetary manoeuvre of the legislature, the one that precedes the elections next spring. The risk to be avoided is to disperse the dividend of the greater growth, causing the debt to rise again. The perception of having passed the crisis phase must actually move us to pursue further policies that reduce debt and strengthen growth. This would be the only way to overcome and put behind us old models and methods that have always penalized us in the past. [[Applause from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-889.ana.u6	I remember that the Annex to the Update Note contains the report pursuant to article 6, paragraph 5, of Law No 243 of 2012, which illustrates the update of the return plan towards the medium-term objective. Pursuant to Article 6, paragraphs 3 and 5, the resolution by which each Chamber authorizes the updating of the return plan shall be adopted by an absolute majority of the respective members. Therefore, the examination of the Document will end with the approval of two separate acts of address: the first, relating to the report referred to in Article 6 (5) of Law No 243 of 2012, to be voted by an absolute majority; the second, relating to the Update Note to be voted by a simple majority. Motions for resolutions to both documents will have to be tabled before the end of the debate. She is registered to speak Senator Zanoni. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-889.ana.u7	Mr President, Senators and Senators, this Update Note is based on some incontrovertible data confirmed by Istat and recent measures. GDP growth is higher than expected in the April Economic and Finance Document and it is not so obvious that governments are so cautious in making optimistic forecasts. Other good news is the acceleration of tourism flows and the export of goods, the gradual resumption of investments - certainly still low, but it is definitely a recovery - the surge of production and expectations in the capital goods sector. Employment growth continues: more than 23 million units. 900,000 jobs have been created and this time seriously: it has not been the promise of a million jobs, but it has been 900,000 real jobs in three years, of which more than half indefinitely; and this thanks also to the real, growing opportunity given to companies to take advantage of the incentives for fixed-term employment. The latest data indicate a further strengthening of growth in the second half of the year. There is renewed confidence among operators and significant improvement in the credit sector. Public debt has finally reversed the trend and is expected to fall below 130 percent in 2018. Work has been done on sustainable and growth-friendly public finance, in a climate of structural reforms for competitiveness and confidence, and building a new governance with Europe to address new challenges. The hearings we held this week have comforted us. On the basis of an overall assessment of the government's forecasts, the Parliamentary Budget Office decided to validate the planning scenario, despite the presence of some risk of downward revision related to an estimate of growth in 2018 perhaps exceeding the highest limit of the UPB panel forecasts. The Court of Auditors, which gave a favourable opinion on the recent review of national accounting data, takes into account a two-year period of 2015-2016 on many fronts better than the previous reporting. In addition, a large influx of economic data documents how a recovery is in the face of higher than forecast. The improvement in public finances, achieved by Italy in recent years, allows, as early as 2018, a strong reduction in net debt trends and a strengthening of the primary surplus. In 2020, zero deficit, the primary surplus will reach 3.5% of the product. The Court of Auditors also highlights some problematic aspects, but concludes with a positive assessment. And the same goes for the Bank of Italy. I would also like to take this opportunity to address a number of aspects on which the rapporteur, having made a general introduction on macroeconomic aspects, has rightly failed to address them. I would like to focus on Chapter V of the Update Note concerning the reforms and recommendations of the Council of the European Union. It is a very important chapter that illustrates the reforms adopted and their implementation since the publication of the National Reform Programme in April 2017, as well as the recommendations addressed to Italy by the Council of the European Union and how they are being responded to through government action. In the light of the objectives set by the European Union, which for the first time emphasise a fiscal intonation in support of growth, Italy is recommended to have a fiscal policy based on the review of taxation on the first house, on the reform of the land register and on the strengthening of invoicing and electronic payments. In other areas, the Commission recalls the need to proceed on the path of reform for the modernisation of the country. However, I would like to focus only on two or three aspects, with respect to the way in which the Government reacted to the calls received, the first of which concerns investment. The recovery of investment seems to be confirmed by data on the amounts banned for work by local authorities. And I would like to emphasise this, because this is something that has always been stressed in recent years: local authorities are a new flywheel for investment and for a local and fast recovery. The other aspect concerns the land registry, where it is said that in the process of revising the cadastral system of classification of buildings some activities have been implemented aimed at the construction of an integrated real estate registry, managed entirely a new platform, which integrates the information relating to the territory with those relating to the owners. This is really important, because it will allow a very different approach for all local finance. I would like to start with the conclusion of my speech by addressing the two most comprehensive dossiers attached to the Update Note, which should be accompanied by the planning reports on investment costs for each expenditure measure. I do not have time to go into these two broad dossiers, but I would like to point out a few curiosities, one of which is certainly of interest to all political forces. I was struck by the first intervention of the Ministry of the Interior on an aspect that will make Senator Azzollini happy, because it concerns the realization of the works of completion of the docking, drainage and road connection of the dam of Molfetta. This is just to say that there is detailed information, which is extremely useful for us who come from the territories; information that concerns all the national territory. For Turin, for example, the station of Rebaudengo, but for many important cities, such as Bari, Verona, Foggia and Parma, this information concerns the infrastructure for mobility and service. I conclude by stressing that it is certainly not all right; we always live in a process of improvement, but for everything said I will vote firmly on the Update Note to the DEF and I hope that not only my fellow party members, but also many other senators, will do so with me. [[Applause from the PD Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-889.ana.u8	Senator Bellot is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-889.ana.u9	Mr President, representatives of the government, colleagues and colleagues, such as the DEF in April, the Update Note to the DEF also highlights the lack of an overall vision. You simply list a series of alleged successes by looking at data that are certainly affected by the general recovery climate in Europe, but that cannot and must not give rise to easy illusions about the real state of our economy. We are well aware that the positive signals are largely attributable to the action of the European Central Bank, as the Bank of Italy has repeatedly reminded us, and not to the choices of this Executive; increasingly political choices and which certainly do not encourage signs of recovery. Politics is, for example, the choice, which I consider dramatic, to progressively definance public health expenditure. In fact, the Update Note does not introduce any corrective measures to the health funding forecast, which remains nailed to a regressive dynamic that in 2019, if not correct, will lead to a percentage of 6.4 percent of total expenditure in relation to GDP, i.e. below the threshold of 6.5% that the World Health Organisation (WHO) identifies as a minimum level to avoid negative impact on citizens' life expectancy. Of course, the consequences are heavy: increased private spending and increasing renunciation of care. It must be noted immediately that the policies of recent years have failed and rapidly changed direction, making the dispute for the protection of the National Health Service (SSN) a battle for all and for all, so that you get to invest in health, reduce inequalities, starting from the abolition of the superticket of 10 euros on the recipe, are supported the new essential levels of assistance (LEA) and strengthen the health staff, with particular attention to marginal areas, the mountain ones and those or with greater difficulty of internal mobility. Policies are also the choices of impoverishment of local authorities. The Update Note lists the resources allocated to local authorities for the performance of their duties. Again, sorry to say, what is done is not enough. Provinces and metropolitan cities are in dramatic conditions, with the first ones suffering significantly from the negative effects produced by an incomplete law (the Delrio law), which does not even take into account principles within which areas with specific characteristics are recognized, in particular the Provinces entirely mountain. More and more often then they fail to close the budgets, they are not in order and therefore are hit by sanctions that obviously fall on the citizens. Further action is therefore absolutely necessary in order to save local authorities, many of them in economic distress, and to avoid paying the biggest price of the crisis being the weakest players. Ultimately, common sense measures are needed, especially in a situation where the financial crisis is the result of wrong choices that have deliberately impoverished these institutions. Last but not least, we also remember the safeguard clauses, which are now disabled, but which still stand as a sword of Damocles for future exercises to condition consumption and investment. So there are still many problems and, even if the time available to me is little, I think that already makes us understand that the Mixed-Doing Group! will vote against the Update Note to the DEF for the minimal reasons set out, but of course also for all the consequences that citizens will suffer and that, from our point of view, do not constitute a response to what the country requires. [[Applause from Senators Biinella and Munerato.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-889.ana.u10	Senator Ceroni is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-889.ana.u11	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Minister, first of all I would like to protest at the time allowed for the debate on this measure, which is one of the most important ones facing this House and, despite this, the senators have less than five minutes to explain their reasons. On the agenda, however, this document is, like the previous ones, completely unreliable. To prepare unreliable documents determines, at the end of the year, the increase of the public debt. Minister, it is not possible for some government officials to state in the newspapers that the government has cut public debt. This government is the world's leading producer of public debt. In July it broke 2,300 billion share with an increase, compared to the previous month, of 18.6 billion, 82 billion more than on January 1, 2017. We are at a public debt increase of 304 million a day. I went to check the statistics and found out that, after the Amato government, this is the government that has the biggest daily increase in public debt. It's only been seven months, so I think that when the legislature ends, the government in office will have the podium of public debt producer. Of course, public debt leads to higher taxes. The DEF states that from 2017 to 2020 we will have a tax increase of 81 billion. This figure is added to the increase in taxes that is well certified: from 786 billion in 2016 to 867 billion in 2020. Of course there are no expenditure reductions because in addition to paying interest on public debt, there is growing public expenditure. In fact, the DEF expects that by 2020 we will have 30 billion more public spending. Of course, the country, in addition to the problem of public debt, has the problem of unemployment. Unemployment levels in Italy are among the highest in Europe and the reduction of unemployment, as the ECB also says, is not significant at all. For unemployment, instead, it would be necessary to invest resources because we should avoid that one hundred thousand young people every year, especially young graduates, leave our country to try to make fortune in the rest of the world. They are young graduates whose training cost the Italian citizen over 165,000 euros. What does the DEF establish in this regard? It provides for a chapter of the next budget law to cover measures for competitiveness and innovation. This includes measures on labour costs aimed at encouraging the permanent recruitment of young workers. For this chapter we spend the beauty of 338 million euros in 2018, i.e. we spend the production of one day's debt. We do 300 million debt in one day and spend to boost youth employment 338 million euros, a little more in 2019, but 2019 is far away. I would ask you for a second, Mr President, so that we can conclude. Innovation and research should be done. Well, investment resources in the DEF in 2018 amount to 300 million. Finally, I should like to close by talking about the National Health Fund. You're smarter than the smarter you can. Every year, on the documents, you spend a few billion more. In fact, do not allocate as much as you have to, because if GDP increases by 1%, we should allocate 1% more to the Health Fund. But you do better: write these sums on the budget, but not the commitments and not the payments. The combined cuts on the National Health Service over the last three years amount to 10.5 billion. And by reducing the share of GDP allocated to the National Health Service, we reach 6.5 percent of GDP, which is a share that endangers the health of the citizen. I shall conclude, Mr President, because I have exceeded my time. However, I would ask you, on matters of such importance, to at least have the opportunity to speak a few more minutes, bearing in mind that yesterday we held the hearings on this document (which consists of over 20,000 pages, with all the documentation) and today we are voting on it.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-889.ana.u12	He's enlisted to speak Senator Bianco. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-889.ana.u13	Mr President, thank you for the word you give me and that I spend on the subject of health, not only for the obvious duty of my own, but also for gathering and walking, on the narrow path that Minister Padoan has told us about, concerns, expectations and proposals that come from this world. True, the country is better, but the guard should not be lowered. Prudence and responsibility: the path is however narrow and there is room for few and qualified choices. This is the message of NADEF: a growth that must be sustained and that requires attention and prudence. It seems to me to be a message which, in its deepest meaning, must certainly be accepted. For years now our National Health Service has been walking on narrow paths, also transforming the difficulties that this entails into great opportunities for the country. What am I talking about? The numbers of these years speak for themselves: health expenditure is growing in absolute value, but its impact on GDP is reduced. Public health expenditure per capita in Italy is on average one third lower than in the EU14 countries. Regional deficits per year fell from 6 billion in 2006 to just over 1 billion, thus quantified in 2016. ***Behind these cold numbers, however, there is a very complex world, a world that, as I said, has transformed difficulties into opportunities. Look at the new model of governance of the institutional levels of the National Health Service (State-Regions); in these years, procedures and models of control and programming of expenditure, verification of expenditure, verification and delivery of LEAs, computerization have grown. All this has certainly helped to return elements of efficiency and effectiveness to the system. But, behind these numbers, there are also other factors, there is a great sacrifice asked to the workers of the National Health Service, which has materialized in contractual blocks, career, turnover, in the emergence and emergence of increasingly vast areas of precariousness within the Health Service. Just as there are - let's face it, because it is responsible to say so - grey areas of equity and universalism in the delivery of old and new LEAs; this is what all the research institutes working on the subject say. This creates new inequalities, widening the old and atavistic inequalities in our country. That is why, frankly, there is concern when we read, in Tables 3.1a, 3.1b and 3.1c of NADEF, that health spending in 2018 will fall to 6.5 percent of nominal GDP, estimated to increase for that year, as the rapporteur said, to 3.1 percent. *** It is true that expenditure grows in absolute value. In fact, we read the figure of 930 million euros. However, I would like to point out that in 2018 they will impact three important points on regional budgets. The renewals of contracts after eight years, which are within the financing of the National Health Service. The estimate at the moment is still ambiguous because there are no acts, but it is reasonable to think that it is EUR 500-600 million. As will be proposed again this year the modalities of contribution of the Regions to the equilibrium of public finance. Last year, in the course of work, the Regions with ordinary statutes were asked 422 million euros because of the litigation with the Regions and the Provinces with special statute. This year I fear that the figure will be even greater. The last node will be the pharmaceutical payback 2013, 2014 and 2015, which probably for the share still to be paid, which is not indifferent, will go into transaction. There is, however, a problem; the regions have already entered the full amount of the figures in the budgets, as required by the law. Only the sum of all this, in a mere accounting reasoning, makes us understand how the increase in expenditure cannot be covered. While it is true that we need to recover efficiency and efficiency of the system, we need to pay attention to certain elements that are still present within it, such as the blockage of turnover and the constraint of staff, which cause malfunctions. For this reason, I believe that our commitment, precisely on that narrow path, but still responsible and rigorous, to review some forecasts of health spending, comes from a simple conviction: good health also does good employment, thus meeting the objectives of the Government. Good health needs good investment and, therefore, we meet the objective of the Update Note to the Economic and Financial Document. And, above all, good health is a powerful tool of social inclusion, of combating poverty and inequality. This is the intervention to be carried out. We remain within these objectives, but we rethink health in the light of them, because health is within them. [[Applause from the PD Group and Senator Rizzotti]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-889.ana.u14	He is registered to speak Senator Barozzino. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-889.ana.u15	Mr President, an old proverb from my side says that washing the donkey's head is a waste of time and unfortunately soap too. I believe this proverb is appropriate to the situation we are experiencing in the DEF. Let's start with what you wrote in this Update Note. Unemployment is falling because it is 11.2%. Reading it like that would be good news. Unfortunately, though, do not write everything else. You get to the figure of 11.2 percent because now even those who do an hour of work are counted as hired. The damage is added, therefore, to the mockery and I am not the one to say it. If we continue to read the Note, we see that more than a billion hours of work are missing in Italy. That is, there are over a billion hours of work that the Italians have not done. This simplifies what I am saying: you continue to persevere in error and this is unfortunately diabolical. In addition, write that the European Council calls for effective active labour policies. Great. Who does not want active labour policies? As a result of the Jobs Act, you cut social shock absorbers for workers to say that in the field of work it was no longer necessary to make passive but active policies. On this point too, we agree. Too bad, however, that following the cut of social shock absorbers, in Basilicata, for example, Region from which I come, there are 1,000-1,200 former workers who no longer even have the right to access any benefit. Given then that Minister Padoan is present, I would like to ask the representatives of the Government a question: the workers to whom you have removed the roof where they could be repaired in some way, and they can no longer even sign up on the mobility lists in order to have access to some benefit that guarantees at least survival, what do they have to do? Don't pretend you don't understand. I call for answers to this question, because I believe that this is truly diabolical. Let's continue with the things you write. You want to continue a fight to reduce youth unemployment and against poverty. In words we could agree; it is a pity that, if we look at the numbers, we realize that you enter 600 million for the income of inclusion (REI), compared to almost 5 million people in Italy in absolute poverty. I remember that the people you expelled from social shock absorbers will not be able to apply for the REI because they received an income in 2016 and, therefore, add further damage to an existing one. For youth employment continue to propose the usual solutions: decontribution of EUR 8.060 for one year and no longer for three. I would remind you that, in the companies where you have granted decontribution to rain, workers are now all in cash or have even been fired. What should change? While it was three years before, now it's only a year. Continue, too, with internships. After four and a half years of work in the Commission, it was recognised that Senator Barozzino was perhaps right. Traineeships have been used not for youth employment but for some companies to take off work: those young people have been employed to replace workers of a certain age and with dependent children. You guys go on with this internship thing like it's nothing. I have no more words to describe these attitudes. Since the whole government is present, I demand answers about your policies, to which you must respond. I'm thinking about everything you've said about jobs act and the wonders you've been feeling these days. The real people, who are out of here, know what these policies are and they'll charge you in the election in three or four months. [[Applause from the Misto-SI-SEL Group and the Senators De Pin and Rizzotti.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-889.ana.u16	He's enlisted to speak Senator Boccardi. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-889.ana.u17	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen of the Government, as we know, the update note to the DEF 2017, an instrument designed to update the economic and public finance forecasts in relation to the greater stability and reliability of the information available on the macroeconomic framework developments, supports this framework with an upward revision of the trend estimates of the Italian economy compared to the forecasts made in the April DEF, for the whole of the 2017- 2020 four-year period, and in particular for the current year, which estimates growth at 1.5%. However, these favourable indications, in our opinion, should not induce the Government in the error of believing that in the second part of 2017 economic expansion continues at least in line with the rhythm of the first half, driven by the manufacturing sector and some service sectors, precisely because those cited in support of this forecast are short-term indicators, that is to say that we are faced with growth data not already structural, but only induced. Be careful then to give for acquired goals that are far from being achieved and consolidated. Moreover, the country's historical divergence in growth rates compared to the European average would suggest further caution. This caution is widely and documented in the development of the country's imports and exports. The balance is systematically negative, both for the trend framework and for the policy framework. In other words, the potential growth in final consumption and households is met by a higher rate of growth in imports than the capacity of the industrial system and services to meet domestic demand on the one hand and by denouncing the substantial despecialisation of the productive fabric compared to international demand on the other hand. I would like to focus now on the labour market. In the note the employment rate is expected to exceed 58 percent already in 2017, to reach the 60% target in 2020. In this context, after the critical phase of the labour market, we believe that action is needed to make improvements stable and to implement concrete labour policies that will increase wages and reduce costs for businesses. In other words, measures must be taken to reduce labour taxes, not the other way around, as I hear from authoritative left-wing voices these days. I am referring to the possible, yet another increase in labour taxes to compensate for the disappointing performance of the jobs act. The idea of using the tax lever, increasing the contribution levy to discourage future contracts in favour of those without a time limit, is not surprisingly welcomed in most of the trade union front. ECB President Mario Draghi himself returned a few days ago to encourage governments to overcome bonus policy to focus rather on creating job opportunities, and he did not by chance mention Italy as one of the countries behind, whose unemployment rate for under 25 in July was even 35.5%. Well, as long as the Government continues to move in this direction, without addressing the real needs of Italian companies, in terms of competitiveness, innovation and market, there will never be a real revival of employment, which is stable and lasting. And all this to silence the fact that this policy sounds like a mockery to all those entrepreneurs and - I assure you - and there are many who, despite these years of crisis, have managed not to fire anyone. What's the message for them? You want access to government aid? Get smart. Fire and then summarize. For this reason, too, we call on the Government to adopt our proposal, including it in the law of stability. Because on this point it is necessary instead to promote measures of reduction of the tax burden to the enterprises that is calculated not on the new assumptions, that in these years have generated inefficient mechanisms, but calibrated on the number of the workers to indefinite time and, above all, that reward the companies that in these years of recession have continued to guarantee the job. The measure of relief must cover all workers and, therefore, also young people. A measure which must therefore not constitute discrimination but a principle of fairness. On this point too, we cannot agree. The maneuver will have to attack the inefficiencies of spending and will not once again be able to tax taxpayers. Because the most concrete risk is that too much pressure on revenue can block the timid signs of growth and plunge the country back into the recession. On this point too, the Commission's note betrays the total lack of political courage and strategic vision. Finally, I am thinking of the South, on which I should like to return to the document before us today. As a businessman from the South, as an entrepreneur from Apulia, I welcomed the announcements of Minister De Vincenti for the elaboration within the law of stability, of a possible strategy on special economic zones, all of which are still to be defined. However, I note that while in the last law of stability the relief for the new recruitment of young people in the South was 100%, today the Government has extended to all the national territory this relief - which satisfies us - but it has reduced it to 50% in the South and this helps to highlight the gap between North and South, for the workers and the southern enterprises. We would have liked 100% to be maintained to ensure that this gap was finally solved. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator Fucksia is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-889.ana.u18	Mr President, this framework for the next financial manoeuvre, the next budget law, is an optimistic framework. Tonino Guerra said that optimism is the salt of life. However, it seems to me that there has been an excess of optimism here because, yes, the international economic framework improves, everyone runs but we run less than the others. It is the Government itself that says that in the next three years exports will fall. So, redoing all GDP growth on the recovering real estate and on the refurbished machinery seems optimistic (too) and, therefore, also the argument to keep inflation at 2%. Dragons with quantitative easing performed a miracle, but miracles cannot become structural. The rise in inflation, therefore, appears not possible with these numbers. The only fact that seems certain is the deficit spending: the necessary resources will be found for two thirds increasing taxes and the Note shows that 6 billion euros will be available from tax revenues and 2.5 from the cut in expenditure. However, we do not believe that the country can reduce the debt-to-GDP ratio and seriously restart the economy by using deficit expenditure and a simultaneous increase in the tax burden. It is the same Parliamentary Budget Office that raises doubts and invites us to review the data provided downwards. There are a lot of things to say, but time is limited, because we are talking about everything here, and they will be sitting down in a little while to decide also the name to be given to the dog or the cat at home. However, unfortunately, there is little time for these matters, so I ask the Presidency to give the full text of my speech. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. The Presidency shall authorise it accordingly. FUCKSIA (FL (Id-PL, PLI)). However, I would like to highlight just a few points on the health issue, in which the trend of reducing the resources allocated to the National Health Service, reduced to 6.3 percent of GDP, is reconfirmed, bringing the whole country - and Rome in these days has witnessed the extreme difficulties in which the same capital is placed - well below the alarm threshold set by the World Health Organization. In practice, we risk reducing people's life expectancy as well. Financial resources in their total amount do not increase, despite the extreme need. The Court of Auditors itself warns us that this can lead to further wounds in the souls of the sick. The LEAs risk turning into a mirage. A popular motto reads: "He who is healthy does not know how rich he is." I therefore hope that all Italians will remain in good health, because the State and the political class that directs us appear if not sick, at least poor. I am not talking about economic poverty, but about political vision, courage, foresight and a sense of justice. She's poor with pietas. In spite of this, I still hope that in Parliament, when the next budget law is passed, the majority of us can have a movement of humanity and remember that social problems cannot be separated from health problems, so that we can return to science and conscience for the benefit of good and those who need it more than all, the sick. [[Applause from the FL Group (Id-PL, PLI).]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-889.ana.u19	Senator Moscardelli is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-889.ana.u20	Mr President, Minister, I share the DEF Update Note in the Government's approach to the objectives that are set and I endorse the speeches made by my fellow Paleotti, Zanoni and White Warriors. I shall therefore confine myself to setting out a number of points which I believe the Government should consider in more detail. Today we have an employment emergency, particularly for young people. The Government has rightly set youth employment as one of its priorities. However, I believe that the volume of youth unemployment at 35%, compared to the overall figure of 11%, is the dramatic sign of the level of the problem and the emergency, together with the strong migration of young people from our country. I believe that the government must make an effort to recover additional resources and to attack the problem of youth unemployment in a stronger way. Minister, in the update note to the DEF you made an assessment, but I would like at least someone from the government to listen to me, because I see you all engaged in other conversations. I was saying, you have made an assessment on the scenarios of exit from quantitative easing and on adverse scenarios with the raising of the spread and you have rightly taken into account a sustainability of the public debt and the ability of our country to withstand even a shock that may arise from geopolitical tensions or other elements. With regard to the issue of the assessment of political difficulties and instability after the elections before us, I believe that all the resilience assessments you have made are relative. I keep seeing that there is disinterest on the part of the government, and the fact that I am an expression of the majority and PD should still bring you some attention. [[Applause from the GAL Group (DI, GS, MPL, RI) and Senator Crosio]] The assessments you have made on the subject of political instability objectively are relative. I believe that if we do not attack youth unemployment and do not give a strong signal in this respect, it will be another element that will be added to the many problems that we will have when we have to deal effectively after the elections. I therefore believe that in relation to the priority of youth unemployment, the Government must find additional resources. The other element of assessment is that we have a positive picture of growth in the face of a lack of public investment in infrastructure. Even the important result of the failure of the Stability Pact has not increased investment in the municipalities. For an important sector of our economy like construction we are only at the beginning of a recovery. Alongside the theme of the development of the South, therefore, we have a huge pool of potential on which to grow. However, public infrastructure and investment continue to lag behind, still lacking, and the development of the Centre-South always has the same gap, so even investment in innovation, like the Industry 4.0 plan, is reflected more on the areas of our already more advanced country. In fact, when we invest in research and innovation, it is always a small segment of industries, i.e. 80% of innovation and 80% of exports. So we have a problem with infrastructure recovery and innovation in the Centre-South that we have to deal with, otherwise we won't get out of it. On innovation we would also need research centres in the Centre-South because they are concentrated and continue to focus only in the North: Human technopoles as the hub of industrial research between Lombard and Chinese universities. Added to this is the absurdity of Rome that renounces its candidacy as the seat of the EMA, when the pole of South Lazio has a volume of double business compared to Lombardy on 'export, testifying to the dramatic situation in which our Capital pours. I want to conclude with a reflection, reaffirming that the issue of infrastructure and logistics in Central and South is fundamental. I read an interesting article that renews the focus on the centrality of the Mediterranean, with the main global economic actors, China and the USA, and the main European countries, Germany, Italy and France, which have a huge import-export trade with the Mediterranean area, North Africa and the Middle East. Through the widening of the Suez Canal of 2015, the volume of the traffics to Suez is four times that of the Panama Canal. This is because the actor China has an investment that in the last fifteen years has grown by 840%. The choice of the sea route - and therefore the desire to relaunch the Silk Road, through Suez for access to the area of Africa, the Middle East and Northern Europe as a hub for the traffics for the Atlantic shore of the USA - has really put the Mediterranean back at the center of international trade. It's the strategic junction. Therefore, all investments in infrastructure and logistics for the Centre-South represent an objective that is not so much or just relaunching our Mezzogiorno, but placing it at the centre, intercepting those flows of trade that, if we organize others, we no longer intercept. This is an exceptional and fundamental opportunity. To take off a structural recovery of our country and put it at the head of Europe, still missing the whole component of public investment in infrastructure, with this opportunity I believe that our country has an extraordinary perspective. [[Applause from the PD Group and Senator Sciascia]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-889.ana.u21	Senator Crosio is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-889.ana.u22	Minister, yesterday we followed your hearing and we wonder how it is possible to be so blatantly optimistic about the economic performance of our country. We ask ourselves once again what world you live in: for once, alas, I agree with my colleague Brunetta. Minister, what world do you live in? Doesn't he ever go to the market, among the people, among the elderly? Is it possible that only we hear those who complain and do not see a prospect for their future? I'm the only one who meets the young people who are making the briefcase because they're leaving this country? They are young people we have trained, on whom we have rightly invested, from whom someone will benefit in the coming years. They go to Switzerland or Germany; yesterday I met one who even leaves for Mexico City. And you never talk to the elders? The elders are now humiliated, after a life of sacrifice. Action has never been taken to safeguard their daily lives. I repeat, I don't know if we only meet those who complain. I say that with a joke, but the light at the end of the tunnel is probably, once again, a train that is coming at us. Besides, you're the Renzi government clone. The governments that are happening are those of the proclamations and announcements, but in the concrete facts - alas - you are putting in place a strange alchemy with the complicity of Europe. At the end of August, Minister Poletti announced a bonus of 2 billion to create 300,000 jobs. It has been done a generous calculation with fantastic goals; but it is a pity that, when translating them into concrete facts in official documents, everything evaporates and even in this case it is all fucked up. I would now like to refer to what some of my colleagues in the PD said earlier, who are somewhat discordant among them. In fact, a colleague has just said that as far as infrastructure in the Mezzogiorno is concerned an incredible answer is being given, citing a work done in Molfetta (legitimate and I do not know), addressing a colleague from Apulia and saying that this could be the occasion for the rebirth of infrastructure and the economy. On the other hand, another colleague who spoke earlier complained - alas, and in this case I fully agree - about the perennial absence of Minister Delrio. The iron treatment that Minister Delrio has proposed - he is a doctor and rightly iron is good for the body - is another thing compared to the iron treatment that our country needs. I fully agree with the previous speaker, and we have mentioned this on several occasions during the hearings with Mr Delrio. I would like a minister to go to Europe to safeguard my interests, to try to enhance - as my colleague has pointed out and as we have repeatedly recalled - and to enhance the Rotterdam-Genoa infrastructure. With the doubling of the Suez Canal, our country's infrastructure platform can be quite competitive. I remember that there are 75 kilometers of dock in Rotterdam. But someone has to move and someone has to say something from this point of view. We have a completely absent infrastructure minister. I am dealing with infrastructure and in these few minutes I have at my disposal I would like to accentuate this aspect. The same thing we can say about the ultra-wide gang. Vice-Minister Morando, how many times have I asked the Government in this House to clarify once and for all. Before we say that we still have to put fiber - which is fine too - someone tell me how much fiber is turned off in our country: I do not say it, but the operators, that is those who have interest in putting the cables because with those they earn. 10:49 a.m. (Crossio followed). Have at least the modesty to check how much fiber is off before spending money we don't have. In this case, too, you said: We'll turn on a hundred cities, we'll do a lot of good things. But market failure areas are increasingly failing. It's a failure like your government, like your economic policy. I urge you to leave the possible merger between Ferrovie and ANAS alone at the moment; do not add to the casino another casino. Let's try to end this parliamentary term; close the accounts "well and better." You are like the meter: a tilt system, a failed and failing system. Therefore I trust - indeed, I am sure - that soon the Italians, who have now understood, will send you home and we hope that those who come after you have at least the modesty of not making strange alchemies from the economic point of view and of telling the reality of a country that makes great effort and that must make and will make great sacrifices. It is not by throwing smoke in the eyes, as you are doing once again, that you will solve the problems of Italians. The problems are others, but you didn't realize. [[Applause from Senator Stefani]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-889.ana.u23	She's enlisted to speak Senator Longo. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-889.ana.u24	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the DEF Update Note, which we are debating, should certify a very important fact, namely the fall in public debt of 0.1-0.2% since 2017. It should therefore be pointed out that this is an unprecedented reversal of the trend over the last ten years. Of course, the slogan "more GDP, less debt" with which the Government presented the Note must be consistently filled with content in the next economic maneuver, but, in fact, compared to what is expected in the April DEF (+1.2%), the real change in GDP, at the end of 2017, should be +1.5% compared to the previous year and the same growth is expected to repeat in 2018 and 2019, which means that the growth rate of GDP has been revised at an increase of about 25% in relative terms. The waiver of safeguard clauses should also be welcomed, given that the loss of revenue of around 15 billion euros of VAT will result in about 5 billion euros more of production and income, driven by increased consumption. The deficit will rise slightly, but the ratio of deficit to GDP for 2018, which is expected to be 1.6% compared to 1.2% in April, remains well below the 3% limit. Ultimately, there is an increase in nominal GDP growth, a greater reduction in public administration needs and a greater use of privatisation, which will reduce the debt stock. These are the substantive and objective premises that we colleagues of the ALA-Civic Chosen Group have taken into consideration, analysing the data and approaching the text with the constructive and reformist spirit that has always characterized our parliamentary choices. With this in mind, it is important to remember that in these months we have not voted for trust in the Gentiloni Government. Silveri, but that on the measures useful to the country we have never failed our contribution, albeit sometimes critical. Again, while we are critical, we have focused on the need and prospects that the Update Note to the DEF can bring. Certainly the text can be defined as balanced and in line with the timid economic recovery that needs to be consolidated. In addition, the constructive approach by which we will vote on this DEF is also given by the belief that an unfamiliar vote by Parliament can give the Government more strength when it has to deal with the European Commission. When a President of the Council of our country deals with Europe to try to bring more Italy and a stronger Italy into the European Union, that is always our President of the Council. No one who has a bit of political responsibility can hope for the arrival of the trojka, but not even a DEF entirely oriented to the old left "tax and spend" canons. [[Applause from Senator Barani]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-889.ana.u25	Senator Dirindin is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-889.ana.u26	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, representatives of the Government, I am speaking on the subject of health and health policies, with regard to two fundamental aspects on which a debate took place, even yesterday during the hearings on the Update Note, as well as during the work on the opinion delivered in the Health Committee. These are two issues which, I would like to point out, concern commitments which the Government formally made to Parliament in the past years and which, in an embarrassing way, the Commission continues to disregard without even arguing the reasons for ignoring them. The first issue concerns the relationship between health expenditure and GDP. The DEF Update Note merely notes that, as GDP grows and expenditure is maintained at the same level as it was indicated when we did not yet have the possibility of predicting GDP growth, the ratio of health expenditure to GDP decreases. Only five months ago, in April 2017, as the Government and its colleagues in this Assembly well know, the motion for a resolution at the DEF, item 15, provided for the Government's commitment to intervene to progressively realign the relationship between expenditure and GDP compared to the average of European countries. What the DEF Update Note states is that not only is there no realignment path, but there is an increase in the fall of this ratio and certainly, at a time when GDP increases, attention would also have been expected to be paid to adequate, at least similar, growth in health spending. This - I am sorry to say - only confirms how many times we have complained that health policy is not on the government's agenda and that we continue to regard health policy as the one in which restrictions can be increased rather than helping the system to improve its functioning. I say by the way - a lot has already been said by those who preceded me - that in the last five years health care, which is a labour intensive sector, has lost almost 40,000 employees and, since it is a labour intensive sector and cannot produce benefits if it does not have the workers, obviously resorts to outsourcing, to forms of job administration that cost much more than it would cost to hire employees. A second issue concerns the revision of the system of sharing in expenditure and exemptions. This is also a commitment that the Government made in 2014 with the Health Pact, in which, in Article 8, it is written that, starting from the establishment of a working group, the ticket system would be revised overall. Nothing has been done. At the very time of the debate in the Health Commission on the opinion of the Update Note, we asked the Government where we are and we were told that only the working group was set up. Unfortunately, this system is currently recognised by all as a system that produces inefficiencies and iniquities to which the Government, in particular the Minister of Economy, should be sensitive, which make it difficult for citizens to access the services of the national health service. This system - I repeat - recognized by everyone as to be revised, can at least be reviewed in the most seriously productive part of distorting effects, that is to say the super ticket, which displaces public health compared to private health for the majority of the specialist benefits, which many citizens need, and produces effects of increasingly burdensome injustice in a difficult situation such as that in which so many millions of Italian citizens are found. On this I think it is necessary to start giving a signal, because otherwise we can only conclude, in an embarrassing way, that disattention to public health is not due to the crisis, but to an explicit choice of the Government. [[Applause from the Groups Art.1-MDP and Mixed-SI-SEL]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-889.ana.u27	Senator Orellana is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-889.ana.u28	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, in recent times we have heard good news on the economic front, now confirmed by this Update Note: economic recovery has consolidated in recent months with GDP growth of 1.5%, instead of the expected 1.1% of last April's forecast. Unemployment is falling, while employment is increasing. In this positive scenario, I would like to focus on a point that I think is particularly important, namely the need for environmentally sustainable development. I very much hope that the recovery we are witnessing in recent years and that it is consolidating in recent months will deviate from previous experiences, in which, to economic growth, phenomena are often paid environmentally negative. I am referring, for example, to a growth in CO2 emissions directly proportional to an increase in GDP or an increase in the production of waste per capita, which is also associated with economic growth. And these are just a few examples. This must no longer happen, not only because of the damage it would cause to the environment in which we live, but, in a more general view, because of the damage the planet would have. The fulfilment of Italy's commitments at the Paris COP21 conference also passes from here. In this sense I appreciated, although only on the last page of the Note at the end of the chapter dedicated to energy and the environment, the citation of the catalogue of environmentally harmful subsidies and those environmentally favorable as a cognitive tool to facilitate a transition towards an ecological tax system. I remember that the SADs represent over 16 billion euros, while the SAFs slightly exceed 15.5 billion euros. Harmful subsidies to the environment are greater than favourable subsidies. If we could, with a magic wand, eliminate harmful subsidies to the environment not only would we do a great deal of favour to the environment but would recover more than 16 billion. We therefore need to take action on this. The above catalogue, produced by the Ministry of the Environment as required by Article 68 of the 2015 Environmental Link, also contains recommendations and suggestions from various international bodies, including the European Environment Agency, the Organisation for Economic Cooperation and Development and the European Parliament. The proposals to take action on environmental tax policies are therefore not lacking. We do not need to have much imagination and I do not think it is necessary to set up any dedicated Commission, as was the case in the past, for example, the Marè Commission which, among other things, had no member of the Ministry of the Environment. I expect that, from this point of view, the future budget law will undertake a path of reduction of the SAD (environmentally harmful subsidies) and perhaps also an increase of those environmentally favorable. It is not just a simple quotation in the Note, but it is realized with concrete and effective interventions. The tax system can and must be an instrument of a sustainable economic policy, if it reduces some subsidies that not only sometimes distort the market but support environmentally harmful practices. One of the recommendations of the European Commission, referred to in the DEF Note, indicates precisely - I quote - a decisive action to reduce the number and extent of tax breaks. It is a statement that does not convince me in absolute value, but it is certainly desirable for environmentally harmful subsidies. In addition to fiscal intervention, all the opportunities and situations for citizens and businesses to take environmentally virtuous action need to be strengthened. For example, a European directive recently introduced the obligation for companies with more than 500 employees and a certain turnover of a non-financial relationship indicating the social and environmental impact of the company's activities. It is a way, still too timid and limited from my point of view, to increase and enhance the social and environmental responsibility of companies. We must go further in this direction by providing, for example, appropriate publicity to the statements made by companies in this report. As we know, companies are increasingly attentive to the reputation and image they have with the public. A company that declares a strong negative impact on the environment, for example, would have a consequent negative impact on its turnover for the negative reaction of its customers. It is not a rapid process of increasing awareness of impacts, but it is necessary to intervene on this, perhaps strongly sanctioning the lying statements found in these non-financial relationships and making them appropriate advertising. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. She's registered to speak Senator Vicari. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-889.ana.u29	Mr President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, the recovery of the Italian economy has strengthened since the last quarter of 2016, in a context of more dynamic growth at European and global level. This emerges from both gross domestic product and employment and hours worked. In the three most recent quarters real GDP has increased at a cyclical rate of around 0.4 per cent; the trend growth rate in the second quarter has reached 1.5%; on the labour front, in the first half of the year, employment grew by 1.1 per cent on an annual basis, while hours worked have increased by 2.8%. This promising picture allows to raise the forecast of real GDP growth for 2017 from 1.1 percent of the April Economic and Finance Document (DEF) to 1.5% today. Another determining factor of the current favourable economic situation is the cumulative effect of structural reforms undertaken in recent years, from that of public administration to that of the labour market, to that of finance for growth, up to those relating to tax efficiency and justice. I would also like to point out that last August, for the first time in Italy, the annual law for the market and competition was approved, which introduces significant innovations in financial services, insurance and professional services, tourism, pharmacies, energy market, post and telecommunications; the objective of the measure is to relaunch the modernisation of the sectors involved, stimulate productivity and growth, allowing consumers to have access to goods and services at lower costs. This scenario is not born from nothing, but is the result of more than four years of targeted and forward-looking political choices that allow us today, on the basis of the encouraging signs of the past years, to face the future no longer with the simple optimism that we have heard in previous interventions, but with the certainty that we have taken the right path. In the coming months, for example, the opening to Italian and foreign investors of sectors such as pharmacies and law firms will be implemented; a point, this, on which Alternative Popular has fought hard during these years to the Government, managing to direct, very often in a decisive way, the policies of the Government in the field of the professions, thus finally managing to induce our partners of Government to overcome that distrust towards this sector, which has cost the country and a fundamental sector of our GDP an unjustifiable delay. A further boost to the economy may result from public investment. The Government has been working for a long time to promote a reversal of trend in this area, so that not only aggregate demand is stimulated, but also improves the potential for economic growth through more modern, efficient and above all sustainable infrastructure. On this subject too, it is needless to remember, our liberal culture, which is opposed to public investment in the rain and without any criteria (as was the case in the past decades), has avoided the repetition of the waste of public resources put in place in the past years. Despite the post-crisis period, thanks to an intelligent reallocation of resources destined for growth, we managed to carry out a targeted public investment plan and based on the real needs of the sectors and territories to which they are addressed. The safeguard clauses have been modified by the spring manoeuvre, reducing their amount compared to the 2017 Budget Act to an extent that varies between 3.8 billion in 2018 and 4.4 billion in 2019. The negative impact on GDP is therefore slightly lower than in April, especially in 2018. The new trend forecast for GDP for 2018 also reflects the greater drag effect resulting from the upward revision of the quarterly real growth profile during 2017, which is worth about 0.1 percentage points of growth. Clearly the action of the Government and the majority will be directed to the decommissioning of the aforementioned clauses relative to the year 2018. In the first half of the year, in line with the public finance policy framework of the DEF 2017, the Government adopted some urgent measures that combine measures to consolidate public finance developments with interventions for the reconstruction of the territories affected by the seismic events of 2016 and 2017, as well as initiatives for the territorial authorities, for the relaunch of economic growth in the Mezzogiorno and for the management of the migratory phenomenon. Overall, these measures lead to an improvement in indebtedness. I don't dwell on numbers because they're known. Taking into account the one-off nature of certain measures brought about by Legislative Decree No. 50 of 2017, for 2017, the improvement of the structural budget balance is around 0.2 percent of GDP (3.4 billion). In the following years, slight improvement effects are expected for all public finance balances. The resources found in terms of gross maneuvering amount to 5.2 billion in 2017, increase to 10.2 billion in 2018, remain to 10.1 billion in 2019 and then decrease to 7.4 billion in 2020. Over the period considered, around 90% of the resources are obtained through provisions for the recovery of the tax base and the increase of tax loyalty. A fact that we must consider as positive rather than always weeping over ourselves is that the collections from the activity of contrast to the escape for 2017 are greater than the receipts realized in 2016 for approximately 2.62 billion, attesting for the first time to 14.1 billion euros. In particular, this concerns the extension of the split payment mechanism to all public administration, to professionals, to subsidiaries of central and local government and to listed companies, and to provisions aimed at limiting abuses of the tax compensation institution. With regard to real estate, the Government's development plan is developed according to two main guidelines: the income of the most attractive assets, through changes in the use of real estate, their contribution to savings management funds for the subsequent sale on the market and a more efficient economic management of the buildings used for institutional purposes. In conclusion, they have been found to encourage the continuation of the path taken to further strengthen a recovery of the Italian economy that, after years of deep recession, has manifested itself in 2014, consolidated in the biennium 2015-2016 and has, finally, taken effect in the current year, also in virtue of a context of more dynamic growth at European and global level, showing above all increasing signs of structural strengthening. On these and on many other objectives centered Alternativa Popolare has invested all its energies, guaranteeing to this Government a stable majority, able to put in place all those regulatory measures that, more than four years after April 2013, give to the Italians a considerably improved picture regarding the difficult political, economic and social conditions of departure. The growth of gross domestic product in recent quarters has surprised the rise, exports of goods and tourist inflows have accelerated and there has been a gradual recovery in investment. All this provides, on the whole, encouraging signals, particularly evident in the recent surge in production and expectations in the capital goods sector. The main challenge for economic policy is to transform the current phase of exit from the crisis into a robust and structural recovery, which allows Italy to finally overcome a prolonged season characterized by the stagnation of productivity and growth. The path is still long, although some reforms are beginning to produce concrete effects in the name of stability that should be guaranteed to each country and to each government. Families, businesses and workers today, thanks to this intense and complex work, can look at the past as a distant memory. Italy has broken down and is growing again, despite the enormous difficulties that could cause the opposite to be feared at the outset. Thanks to this long series of reforms and investments, we are about to give the next Parliament an Italy not only more stable and more prosperous, but with real prospects of improvement. A challenge that seemed impossible and that we also managed to win, overcoming the historical ideological contrasts that for years have cast our economy into patterns now, finally, really outdated. Mr President, I would ask you to be able to hand over the full text of my speech so that it is annexed to the Reports of today's sitting. [[Applause from the AP-CpE-NCD Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-889.ana.u30	The Presidency authorizes you to do so, Senator Vicari.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-889.ana.u31	Senator Uras is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-889.ana.u32	Mr President, I will use these minutes to announce what my vote and that of other colleagues with whom I have shared an assessment both of the need for deviation and of the content of the Update Note to the DEF. I am talking about colleagues Molinari, Bencini, Orellana, Maurizio Romani and Stefano. We think we are voting in favour of both the deviation and the Update Note, and I shall explain very briefly why so. On the other hand, we have always had a clear, critical position on the content of Article 81 of the Constitution (as has been mentioned, with the obligation to balance the budget), because we have always thought that debt is an instrument that must remain in the hands of Parliament, in order to decide what kind of promotion and support to the economy is useful (each exercise, in all circumstances). The other issue concerns voting on the Update Note. We are on the eve - it is clear - of an election campaign and the Update Note that was presented by the Government has more comforting numbers than others we have seen in this legislature. For this reason, for the use made of a part of the financial envelopes that the growth recorded in the last ten quarters in a constant way guarantees, for the commitment to the social state and to measures to combat poverty that has been assumed and publicly declared by President Gentiloni Silveri, for us deserves this act of confidence. Then we will see the budget maneuver, we will see the figures and we will see how they will be oriented. Let me, Mr President, make a political assessment in the four minutes I have left, in the face of a financial manoeuvre that precedes the elections. The political assessment is as follows. We live a tormented moment, we live it on our continent, we live it within the eurozone, we live it especially in the Mediterranean. And not only are migratory flows the subject, but they are above all the reasons for the migratory flows that we have to face in these weeks, in these months and in these years, that is, a Mediterranean that has been systematically upset by decades of wars, by an attack by now unbearable of the ancient civilizations of the Mediterranean basin as a whole, from the Middle East to North Africa, to the slopes of our Europe. We must address these issues, guaranteeing our commitment to our community and extending it as a good example to be provided to other countries. The methods of using the resources of all, the respect we have for them, our way of doing politics, avoiding the exploitation and guaranteeing the total good faith, the true commitment in this House, but also in our territory and alongside our citizens, are the principles that must move us. Mr President, I would like to conclude by saying that perhaps we also need to re-evaluate the function of politics, recognising each of us as a part of good faith and avoiding personal judgements on political positions. I also address the comrades of MDP and my fellow progressives in Campo, because this Group is my heritage just like all the others that make it up. It is my heritage, of the mayor of my city, Massimo Zedda, and of all those who have contributed daily to give a new political signal to a center-left and a democratic area in full development, so as to provide the country with a real opportunity to relaunch our economy and our society. We will never be instrumental, but absolutely more than sensitive to the rights of all others to express their political views and positions. We respect the positions of others because it is right, this is Parliament and it is right that we all have different positions and we compare them without ever hitting those who take responsibility for them, but rather helping them to express their thoughts freely. [[Applause from the Mixed Groups, Art.1-MDP and PD.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-889.ana.u33	Senator Mandelli is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-889.ana.u34	Mr President, representatives of the Government, ladies and gentlemen, this second forecast document by the Gentiloni Government, too, Silveri confirms the ratio of the economic policy of the central-left governments from 2014 to today. In particular, the leverage of the budget deficit has been used to make growth. However, the expansionary effect on GDP has proved to be less quantitative than the additional effect on the financial market. To understand with a few simple numbers: after four years and more than 164 billion deficit spending we have a GDP of 1,716.5 billion, that is 26 billion less than expected in 2014. All the policy documents, and their maneuvers, have gradually postponed the budgetary balance target which, initially planned for 2018, is now being postponed to 2021. And the biggest deficit for next year (0,6 more on the trend), in fact is 1,9 percentage points higher than the forecast figure of the first DEF of Renzi. Much of the greater net debt will be used to cover the safeguard clause for 2018, avoiding the expected increase in VAT rates to 11.5 and 25%, and part of the increase for 2019. And, therefore, there remain an additional 45 billion clauses from 2019 to 2021, which will have to be defused by the next Government. Looking at the table attached to yesterday's hearing of the Minister for Economic Affairs and Finance in the 5th Commission, we find that the increase in VAT would have a depressing effect on GDP by 0.3%. And the whole maneuver - almost 20 billion - is worth 0.31. That is, all other measures, praised and praised, will have an impact of 0.01 of GDP. There will be a new revenue of 5.1 billion and that means: new tax allowances, new taxes or reduction of tax concessions, that is, in any case, higher taxes that will fall on professionals, workers and self-employed workers. Meanwhile, the debt stock has risen to over 2,300 billion, thanks to an unceasingly growing public expenditure. Summing up some data, from 2014 to 2017 there were 156 billion more GDP, 164 billion more deficit spending and 233 billion added to the debt stock. This data denies the partisans of spending at all costs. Expenditure must be of quality and allow multipliers on economic growth to be used. Otherwise it is not about spending, but about waste and clientele. The ECB's favour has also been frustrated because, although interest on debt has fallen by 24 billion in four years, it is still about 20 billion a year higher than those of our main European competitors. These are real resources that are taken away from investment. It is not enough, therefore, to reduce the debt-to-GDP ratio: a reduction in the stock is necessary before the burden to cope with it rises. In this respect, I would just like to say that the policy on privatisation seems to me at least timid, if not even absent. Although I was initially not in favour, now we must take a more courageous path. Those who ask for a new intervention on pensions answer no, because now we need a serious work of rationalization of the almost 8,000 administrations participating in the consolidated account of the State, in order to free up resources for investments. To this must be added a responsible intervention on the participating companies, for which the so-called reforms of this legislature are proving to be absolutely inadequate. It is noted that about 500,000 exodus are planned by the PA towards the public pension institutions, before each turnover on organic plants now obsolete, the actual needs of the public perimeter, which counts one out of every seven workers in Italy, will have to be verified. Similarly, action will have to be taken to make the labour market dynamic and inclusive, now regulated by the Fornero law, which prevents the over 50 from retiring and where eight out of ten new workers are on a fixed-term basis. So there was no fantastic job reform that gave you permanent jobs. The only fixed places were given by the Berlusconi Government, the only real places created by the Government of Forza Italia. I only quickly mention the problem of health spending, which is linked to GDP and is expected to grow, according to data and, on the other hand, falls below the threshold of 6.5%; the WHO sets a reference level for the sustainability of the system. I simply mention the problem of the superticket, which we discussed in the Commission. In conclusion, the NADEF programmed public accounts not on structural interventions, but on exogenous variables, which saw the world economy in a favourable cycle of growth. The credible reforms have been lacking in the last four years, characterised by outgoing bonuses, one-off entry and growing unproductive public spending, instead of a wise spending review. The flight of investment from our country - equivalent to a figure that is almost a tenth of Italian GDP - is, unfortunately, the most objective and most severe judgment that is given to the action of the central-left governments. These are sums that will return to Italy to trigger permanent economic growth, when there will be authoritative government policies and genuine reforms. [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII and Senator Bilardi]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-889.ana.u35	Senator Santini is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-889.ana.u36	Mr President, Ministers, representatives of the Government, colleagues, the DEF Update Note takes note of a number of positive figures compared to the forecasts of just a few months ago. Growth has been greatly strengthened by reducing the gap at the pace of other European countries, which I believe to be the relevant figure. Employment data are very positive, which, month by month, improves, especially by reducing the scourge of unemployment and also revealing some positive effects on youth unemployment. The budget law - says the Update Note - is an opportunity to continue this virtuous path - we share it - keeping together in the famous narrow path the reduction of taxation, support for public and private investment, a strong boost to youth employment and a significant social policy that is now needed compared to the serious wounds that the crisis of recent years has left in our country. All the elements, particularly those of strong links with innovation and quality, which give more strength and more breath to growth prospects, must be taken into account in economics and labour. The topic of the company 4.0, with investments in digital technology strongly stimulated, goes - in my opinion - linked to other factors to make it complete. And I am referring, first of all, to the rapid completion of the investment programme in the ultra-wide band territory - Italy is still, unfortunately, very uneven between large centres, internal areas and more marginal territories - at a more timely time than is taking place; as well as to the extension of digital transformation also in the public administration. Every time we intervene - as we are rightly doing - in the context of different ways of paying VAT for e-invoicing, we are heavily impacted by difficulties in the public administration. So if we want investment to have a multiplier effect, we need to act even faster on the transformation of the digital economy. As far as investment is concerned, public investment must be strongly encouraged, both by implementing the very positive programme of the Investment Fund, launched in July; and by strengthening - and this is a sensitive point, as resources are needed - the possibility of investment by local authorities, by widening the possibility of using the administrative surplus, which is in many situations present - and could immediately become investment in schools - for example - or in the work of local authorities - but unfortunately, even if the Stability Pact is released, it still suffers from the limitations we know. In addition to this, we need to work very hard on the issue of employment. The increase or, better, the reduction in the contribution to promoting youth employment is very positive. It is very important to link, also in terms of employment, the subject of industrial change. Thus, alongside enterprise 4.0, we must also consider the prospects of work 4.0, with the appropriate support for continuing training. Finally, the second leg is the theme of social policies. I would like to point out three points on which I should like to pay close attention. The first - as also provided for in the Update Note in the table we examined yesterday - concerns strengthening the income of inclusion. This is an important measure, which will take effect from 1 January by rationalising existing trials, which must immediately relate to the reality of social suffering through concrete measures and, therefore, will need to be further strengthened in terms of investment. It is important - as others have already said - to assess the impact of saving measures in the health world with the real conditions of all users and, therefore, also of the social classes more in difficulty than the taxation and the tickets introduced, which must be assessed very carefully. Finally, a special consideration must be given to the family world. There are many families, especially those with higher family loads, who need more targeted help than they do at the moment. In addition, it is also important to assess, in the context of respect for the 2011 social protection reform, how the social app experimentation has important results and allows many disadvantaged areas to have greater opportunities. It is a reality that can become a way in which to deal with the serious problems that still persist, especially when an older worker does very heavy jobs he loses his job for the crisis. Having an early exit option for both men and women is really important and can make the 2011 pension reform more sustainable. On these two legs must march the budget law. Keeping growth, development and employment together means paying close attention to social solidarity and social policies. [[Applause from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-889.ana.u37	The debate is closed. I inform the Assembly that the Presidency has received the motion for a resolution No 100 tabled by Senators Zanda, Bianconi and Zeller on the report pursuant to Article 6 (5) of Law No 243 of 2012. The following motions for resolutions were also received by the Presidency, on the Update Note to the 2017 Economic and Finance Document: No 1, tabled by Senator Barani and other senators; No 2, tabled by Senator De Petris and other senators; No 3, tabled by Senator Cappelletti and other senators; No 4, presented by Senator D'Ambrosio Lettieri and other senators; No 5, presented by Senators Zanda, Bianconi and Zeller; No 6, presented by Senator Romani Paolo and other senators. The lyrics are in distribution. I call the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-889.ana.u38	Mr President, I shall confine myself to a brief reply, because the debate that has followed seems to me to have touched on many points which are not necessarily linked to the subject on the agenda today, which is waiting for a decision on the part of this House. I would like to reiterate the two important facts which - in my opinion - are contained in the Update Note and which fully justify the report to Parliament which was presented by the Government. After a journey that lasted several years, the Italian economy returned to a relatively high growth path. 11:37 a.m. (Following Mr Guerrieri Paleopti, rapporteur). It has returned to an adjustment process that is somehow ensuring a consolidation of our public accounts. The most important fact is that there is a compatibility between these two objectives, and therefore the possibility of widening even more the area of growth that opens up in perspective. Certainly the phase was very favourable, a positive opportunity given by a European and international context that facilitated the adjustment process. But there is no doubt that such an opportunity has been best grasped through measures and policies that have not only looked at the short term, but have also considered medium and long-term objectives. As I pointed out in the final part of my report, the path has been and is important, but it is even more important to continue in this direction, precisely because - on the one hand - the objective of filling that distance that still separates us from the average of the euro area is fully in the potential of our country; on the other hand, it is at the same time in the potential of our country to seize the great opportunities given by the transformations in place. Let us not forget that new horizons are opening up in terms of the renewal of production organisation and a new field of relations at national level. These opportunities are within our reach. And, therefore, in this respect it is important not only not to disperse what has been done and to be able to make the most of the additional resources that today the greatest growth makes available to us, but also to have indicated a strategy, an overall vision, that must be strengthened and confirmed by the measures that we will take through the approval of the budget law in next October. My reply is therefore a reply which simply wants to reiterate that, despite the disagreements, many are the positive elements to be highlighted. And, compared to those who encourage us to do more, this is an invitation that we not only collect, but that was also expressed in the Update Note by the Government to underline how much more important it is to achieve. [[Applause from Senator Parente.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-889.ana.u39	I call the Minister for Economic Affairs and Finance, Professor Padoan, to whom I would ask you to give an opinion on the motion for a resolution submitted to the report pursuant to Article 6 (5) of Law No 243 of 2012 and to indicate which motion for a resolution on the Update Note you intend to accept.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-889.ana.u40	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, first of all, the Government shares the motion for a resolution No 100, for the purpose of the report to Parliament, signed by Zanda, Bianconi and Zeller. Secondly, with regard to the Update Note to the DEF, the Government accepts motion for resolution No 5 signed by Zanda, Bianconi and Zeller.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-889.ana.u41	Minister, I must interrupt you to inform the House that, since the Government has declared that it accepts motion for a resolution No 5, signed by Senators Zanda, Bianconi and Zeller, the one-hour deadline for tabling any amendments referred to it starts from this moment. Please, Minister, continue.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-889.ana.u42	Mr President, I shall make a few brief comments in the light of the debate that has taken place. First of all, it is a fact - I think no one can deny it - that, on the basis of multiple indicators, the Italian economy is improving in a visible and sensitive way, and it is reasonable and not optimistic to think that it will continue to do so. I was saying that it is a fact that, according to the most diverse indicators, but that they strengthen each other, the picture of the Italian economy is definitely improving: from the point of view of growth and employment, the numbers are clear and also the quality of the work is clear; from the point of view of public finance, it is gradually but definitely consolidating, and this, for a country with high debt, like ours, continuously subject to the scrutiny of the markets, even before the international institutions, is a fundamental element. Growth is strengthened in quantity and in extent by sectors and regions of the country and the financial risks depart from the point of view of both the management of the public debt and the deep repair that has happened and that continues to take place in the banking system, that has suffered deeply the greatest recession that has hit the country since the post-war period. We are, therefore, going in the right direction, along that path that public finance must see committed to sustaining - in quantity and quality - growth and employment and at the same time accelerating consolidation. We are a high-debt country, but the debt has begun to fall from us, and this has been certified by ISTAT for 2015 a few days ago; it is foreseen in the Update Note to the DEF for 2017: it will continue to fall in size and with increasing speed in the coming years, removing from the table a risk factor that very often, in the past, has threatened the possibility of making economic policy in our country and that now, instead, offers us a degree of freedom. The public finance approach, from the point of view of the limits it must respect, starts from a value agreed at European level, which, moreover, still needs to be confirmed at the level of ECOFIN, an adjustment of 0.3. This is a structural adjustment which goes in the right direction, but which is less oppressive - let us say this - than the DEF of April. We also owe this to a structured attitude within the European Commission, which recognises a principle that the government's economic policy has always stated in recent years, namely the need to balance growth and consolidation. Thus, the adjustment of the structural 0.3, which with the available GDP figures today is equivalent to 1.6 in debt, goes in that direction. But the optimism that is mentioned, and I don't see what's wrong with it - basically, in the past, we have been accused of being optimistic, but in the light of the results we have been pessimistic about what actually happened - must not be a reason to stop: on the contrary, it must be a reason to accelerate development and make it structural and robust; and we must take advantage of the favourable cyclical moment at European and global level to make this growth, which is still partly cyclical, permanent and lasting, with growth rates that are already higher than those that, even before the financial crisis, characterized the Italian economy. The Update Note to the DEF currently sets out a framework for growth, macroeconomics and public finance, which should be filled with a definition of specific measures under the Budgetary Act. But already in the Update Note to the DEF some areas of intervention are indicated which, given the limited resources - as is clear to all - allow first of all to remove the safeguard clauses completely, thus avoiding increases in VAT which, otherwise, would be a brake on growth and, therefore, danger to the consolidation of growth if not disabled. The first element is, therefore, the decommissioning of those clauses. Having said that, within the framework of the budgetary adjustment constraints agreed at European level, limited resources remain, but they can be extremely useful in a context of continuation of the strategy; a strategy that I would not hesitate to define as inclusive growth, and therefore product growth, product composition, but resources that allow those who are still on the margins of the recovery to be included more effectively. I am of course referring to youth unemployment, which has, moreover, fallen on the basis of the latest figures, but which is still far too high; I am referring to expenditure on the level of general well-being in the country. Many speakers have mentioned the issue of the health system: this is certainly an area in which improvement and efficiency measures will have to be evaluated. To conclude, the growth of an advanced country in Europe, like ours, cannot but be based on a vision of the future based on the promotion of productivity, on innovation, on the Business 4.0 plan, and therefore on the possibility of growing at rates much more sustained and sustainable than in the past, despite the ageing population and an adverse demographic environment. This is not only possible, but it is beginning to come about. We must not, therefore, stop and be content with what we observe: we must define a growth programme for the years to come. [[Applause from the PD and Aut groups (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT) - PSI-MAIE.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-889.ana.u43	We shall then proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-889.ana.u44	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-889.ana.u45	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-889.ana.u46	Mr Quagliarello (FL-Id-PL, PLI)). Mr President, government gentlemen, fellow senators, in the Economic and Financial Programming Document that we are about to vote on, Minister Padoan writes: For 2018, fiscal policy will continue to be part of the strategy, which has ensured a steady reduction in the deficit-GDP ratio, debt stabilisation and its reduction since 2014. The continuation of the deficit reduction path aims at achieving a substantial fiscal balance in 2020 and speeding up the reduction of the debt-to-GDP ratio. All this is summed up with a slogan that, to be honest, Minister, is more Renza's style than "Padoan": "more GDP, less debt." By compulsing the numbers it is noticed that, in fact, according to the DEF's estimates, some comma-zero GDP could be recovered and some comma-zero debt could be reduced. But the policy of the narrow path outlined by Minister Padoan seems far from peaceful. In fact, if we continue to examine the data, we come across deficit figures, which rise from 1.2% to 1.6%. I am not an economic expert, but I wonder: how can we reduce public debt by increasing the deficit? I do not think we need to be experts to know that increasing the deficit right now, in a period of timid growth, is all the more inadvisable. In Via XX Settembre, it is clearly believed that making more deficits is always better than doing less, regardless of the economic cycle, without taking care of the European and international macroeconomic context and trends. Yet the lesson of 2011 should teach us that, furious about procyclical policies, we find ourselves having no fiscal space and having to apply severe cuts in the middle of a recession, that is, when it hurts the most. Colleagues, debt and deficits are not and can never be disconnected variables. Debt is nothing more than the sum of the deficit that accumulates year after year: yesterday's deficit is today's debt; the deficit that you propose to increase today will be the debt of our children. That is not all: the Note we are debating has been presented on the basis of reasoning on purely algebraic statements. But if we go a little deeper into the nature of the data, we realize that the estimated increase in GDP is not due to a stable recovery in consumption, industrial production and jobs, but is, in essence, the result of a counter-maneuver. The very slight forecast of the rise of GDP does not photograph an economy that grows: it is based rather on a presumption deriving from the reverse on the safeguard clauses, which the Government itself imposed, whose lack of revenue will not be recovered by a serious plan of rationalization of the expenditure, but by other deficits and with generic cuts and increases of revenues, of which the foundation is not given. If the trend of spending cuts is confirmed that of the last three years, we are not at all serene. As for the higher income, I think the prospects are even less comforting. The data from the last tranche of the return of capital allow us to talk about flops. Of a billion and 600 million euros of capital expected back, only 850 million euros are present in the balance sheet. In short, it is all too easy to predict that the budget cover for the coming months will also consist of a further debt, perhaps hidden from some maquillage operation in the form of linear cuts to the expenditures of the Ministries. Minister, it is as if a father of the family, who can hardly pay the mortgage every month, gets a salary increase of 0.3% and, instead of using the higher income to save something or to pay off the debt more quickly, decides to ask for a new mortgage, although knowing that at least half of the installment would be discovered. The other element almost implied in the official declarations of the Government is the lack of inflation growth, which remains very low even in the presence of a moderately expansive phase: it is not a problem of nothing, so much so that in Germany they have made an entire election campaign, but it is a topic that deserves more than a deepening, because - remaining this situation - a country with our debt picture and a very fragile banking system cannot ignore the risks that come from a lack of inflation growth. In addition, ladies and gentlemen, we must also say a few words about the prospects for action announced for the budget law. From what has been understood, the Government is determined to present a short-lived maneuver and little investment. We have learned in a fragmentary way that we want to focus on the work of young people, on the contract of the state, on incentives for business, on family and poverty, all for an intervention of about 10 billion euros. But if the seriousness with which you think to deal with the topic of work is that with which in these months ISTAT data have been interpreted, playing with the numbers of the employed, the unemployed and the unemployed in order to make believe in an occupational boom that clearly there is and has not been, we have little to be quiet about. Not to mention the fact that we keep silent about the doping effect of a decontribution in which we believed but that with its schizophrenic management it has not helped neither the employers to make an adequate programming of the forces to assume, nor the boys, that they have been offered an indefinite contract - perhaps in place of contracts in existence for the savings of the employers - and then find out often and willingly that, after the state contribution, of indeterminate remained only the time that would have taken them to find a new job. Finally, ladies and gentlemen, I hear about tax expenditures being cut. There would be 468 tax reductions to be attacked with horizontal cuts. Finally, we are talking about clarity in the forest of tax concessions in which resources are lost in a way that is not profitable for citizens and very costly for the state. We've been saying that for a long time. It is a pity that even on this point the approximation used is likely to frustrate almost everything. We will also be owls - and we are now used to being considered as such - but we allow ourselves to point out that the cut in contributions, not included in a context of revision of the tax system, simply amounts to an increase in taxes. Either this drastic reduction is thought to cover the introduction of a single rate, better known as flat tax, of which we can obviously discuss the level, or we are faced with the usual recipe proposed by the left, which recovers public money to spend more and not to lower taxes. Cutting the benefits without lowering taxes would be yet another game to camouflage the reproduction of an ancient formula of the left: tax and spending, spending and tax. For all these reasons, even on behalf of our children and grandchildren, I announce the opposition of the Federation of Freedom Group to the resolution tabled by the majority. Mr. President of the Senate, one last notation. I make amends for not having realized it at the Conference of Leaders. But, after we spent whole days in this House discussing measures that were basically tips and electoral prebends, I believe that giving an eleven-minute group - including explanations of vote - is a violation of our dignity and of the institution we represent. [[Applause from the FL Groups (Id-PL, PLI) and Misto, and Senator Paolo Romani.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-889.ana.u47	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-889.ana.u48	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-889.ana.u49	COMAROLI (LN-Aut). Mr President, today in this House we have heard from the Government and the various Members of the majority say that there is recovery and, from their point of view, they are rightly proud of it. But if we check the data, we find that Italy is the country that is growing slower than the whole of Europe. We heard the rapporteur say earlier that there are ten quarters of growth. Yes, but Spain has 3% increase in GDP without doing anything. Europe, the mythical Europe, always according to the majority and the government, has an average GDP growth of 2.2%. Maybe something's wrong. We have heard Renzi boast of the reforms he has put in place and say that the poor 1.5% increase in GDP is due precisely to them. But let's see: the 80 euro reform? Too bad that indirect taxes were then seen to increase, because, in order to finance the 80 euros, cuts were made to the municipalities and the regions, the much praised local authorities. Even here, the majority have repeated how fundamental they are, but then they cut their resources and they cannot provide the services. The reform of the Provinces? Now the Provinces are almost in disarray and cannot guarantee the remaking of the road surface or the heating in the schools. Or the famous jobs act? Again, to Renzi's great joy, reference was made to the fact that employment was growing. It is true: the number of people working has grown but, if we go to see the true figure, the hours worked have decreased. If we make the compensation between the number of workers and the number of hours worked, we have even lost work, because often it happens that, in desperation, many people accept part-time jobs, even a few hours a month, but Istat counts them as additional workers. That's not how it works, ma'am. That's not the truth. The truth is that precariousness has increased. Underemployment has increased. Payrolls have decreased and per capita income and system productivity are falling. These reforms, like the reform of justice, are so much praised. But the case is well known, just jumped to the honors of the chronicles, of that little girl, abused by the father and then placed in a family home, where she is abused again, over which the justice allowed to prescribe the crime. Or think of the bankruptcy law and the many businesses that should be recognized their right to be paid for the work they have done, but they must clash with the very long times of justice. The last story, dated September, is another consequence of the reform of good school: at the beginning of the school year there were no teachers. If we go to see another figure, 12 percent of Italians, equal to 7.2 million people, live in families with severe material deprivation. If we look at the elderly, the figure is even worse. Ma'am, maybe something's wrong. All this optimism and euphoria are not justified. One might think of giving a real turning point. If we then go to see the investments, which represent one of the main actions that the Government could carry out in order to restart the economy, for seven years the figure of the public investments is in decrease. The government's actions are fragmentary, spotted. Using the words of the Court of Auditors, it should not be underestimated a trend which, focused on the search for immediate results and therefore on non-structural interventions, could create distorting effects on the structure of our system. This should be done by a government: giving certainty and security to its citizens. We first heard Mr Padoan say that the safeguard clauses, and therefore the increase in VAT, have been deactivated. That's not true, because they've only been frozen for a year. In 2019 we will be in the same situation and VAT will increase. But what certainty do investors and companies that have to plan their work, if they always have a sword of Damocles on their heads, do not know what will happen and whether their products will be competitive or not? President. - I call the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats. We see that the medium-term objective has also been postponed once again and we are here every time to vote for its postponement. Mr President, I hope that the Government will use the available margins to really make selective and non-fragmental interventions, improving the quality of expenditure and addressing the reasons for the low growth of potential GDP in Italy. We do not see this in the Update Note and the few vague lines announcing what the budgetary action will be, and for these reasons we shall vote against the two motions for resolutions indicated by the Government. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-889.ana.u50	I greet on behalf of the Assembly and the students and students of the course of parliamentary law of the Faculty of Political Science of the University of Rome, La Sapienza, who are attending our work. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-889.ana.u51	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-889.ana.u52	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-889.ana.u53	Mr Barani (ALA-SCLP). Mr President, Minister, I would like to explain our two considerations which will lead us to vote in favour of both the motion for a resolution on the Update Note to the DEF 2017, and the report referred to in Article 6 (5) of Law No 243 of 2012. First, our Group was born to support the reforms: we did it especially with the Renzi Government and we continued with the Gentiloni Government. Silver from jobs act, to the law on civil unions, to the third sector, to volunteering, to all the laws of stability that led to employment, to the laws that reformed the world of culture, to those that led small and medium-sized enterprises to promote employment and to the fact that we have had 900,000 new employees in this period naturally satisfies us. We continued with our support during the Gentile Government Silveri with the law about after us and so many others that I'm not here to list. We were a silent but present group, a reserve ready to help at any time the Government on reforms, if the holders of the majority entered tense on some issues. Let us not hide the fact that in the Democratic Party the so-called Dalhemians and Berliners were the real opposition to the Renzi Government, much more than the 5 Star Movement and the center-right, as now is the Article 1 Group Democratic and Progressive Movement. Our presence led some bad-pancists to desist from the action to bring Italy back and to prevent those reforms that, as the Minister of the Economy related in the Senate, led to that economic recovery and employment and to the development that we had all set ourselves; we came out of the sandboxes of what the Minister called the biggest crisis since the post-war period. That action has given positive results that are before everyone's eyes. Obviously, we do not hide that we have done so in a Franciscan way (I use this term today, which is St. Francis, patron saint of Italy), without wanting anything in return, but only to continue the process begun with the so-called Nazarene pact, which we believe should end when the President of the Republic dissolves the Chambers. That is, we have tried to carry on those reforms that were necessary. Now, with the update note of the DEF under consideration and with the budget law that we are going to draw up (and to which we will contribute), we expect the government to continue in that action that has been going on for two or three years, with which we too have helped build that path of economic recovery and employment. With our liberal and popular culture (I also put socialist, for the carnation that I wear in the crown), we believe we are the "guardians of the lighthouse," ready at any time to break those chains created from time to time by some Group: I refer above all to the Group Article 1 - Democratic and progressive movement, but also to the People's Area, which sometimes claim to harness the Government so as not to make it continue that path of reforms that we consider useful to the country. This is a political consideration. The second consideration for which our vote will be in favour is more technical, Minister. We have also tabled a resolution containing our economic political idea, which we invite you to read and which could perhaps help. We hope that the Government will act as soon as possible on the European Commission to have a report on the state of implementation of the fiscal compact. As you know, this prior assessment is required by Article 16 of the 2012 Treaty establishing the European Union. Next year, in the event of a positive assessment, the final incorporation of those rules into the Community law, Minister, will have to be a major step forward, which will mark the possible future development of the economy of the eurozone in general and of Italy in particular, for which you are responsible, both in negative and positive terms, for this choice. Such a step cannot be taken in the dark, without having the slightest certainty of what has worked and what, on the other hand, has contributed to aggravate all the existing problems. The data in our possession tells us that the fiscal compact was a general failure. No great country has respected those rules, not even Germany, whose debt, in relation to GDP, had to decrease and instead has increased, albeit slightly, also in Germany. The exception is a number of small countries, seven or eight, whose total population is less than half that of Italy. Too little to force everyone to drink bitter medicine. Of course, we can make mistakes in our assessments. We do not, like others, have absolute truth. We are therefore open to a possible contradiction, which can only be activated by the European Commission, providing a series of empirical evidence to allow a judgment without prejudice. But since this work will take as long as it takes, it is good that it is this Government and not the next one to pose the problem, in order to avoid the risk that the immediate expiry of the decision can make the preventive and indispensable evaluation of merit. We oppose the tax and spend the merits and needs, which is a Copernican revolution, a cultural evolution completely different from the idea of those who claim to maintain the status quo or to go back because it concerns those who, on the other hand, ask to move forward. That is why we shall vote in favour of both motions for resolutions today. [[Applause from Senator Longo.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-889.ana.u54	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-889.ana.u55	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-889.ana.u56	WAR (Art. 1-MDP). Mr President, the Article 1-MDP Group will vote in favour of the deviation from the medium-term objective, because this deviation makes it possible to make a less restrictive manoeuvre. It makes it possible, however, to increase the deficit and when you get into debt more it is very important to choose the right way to use the margins obtained. We believe that the greater flexibility achieved in past years has been largely squandered, which is why we have long been calling for a reversal of course. We are very impressed by the rosy reading that the Government proposes to us in the Update Note to the DEF that we would be in a phase of economic growth that is being consolidated, made possible by the policies pursued so far. That is not the case: the policies pursued so far have been ineffective. The Bank of Italy's 2017 report clearly tells us that the increase in Italian GDP depends for four fifths, i.e. 80%, on the expansionary policies of the European Central Bank, quantitative easing, and only one fifth on government policies. Policies that, in recent years, force us to find resources, and again this year €15 billion, to defuse that increase in VAT and excise duties with which we will otherwise have to pay them. This is what is referred to by the dark term "safeguard clause." This misreading of the miraculous effects of the policies carried out so far leads the Government to reconfirm the wrong choices of the past, with a view to "continuism," as defined by the President of the Council Gentiloni Silveri. We are asking for discontinuity. Let me give a few quick examples. If we compare the current economic situation with that of ten years ago, that is to say with the pre-crisis situation, we see that GDP is even lower than then by 6-7 percentage points, that investment is below 27 percent and industrial production by 21.4%. The difficulties of our economy therefore depend, in all evidence, on the insufficiency of the accumulation process; the stock of capital is insufficient. The first recipe should be to increase investment, especially public investment, which has a strong impact on growth. Instead, the Court of Auditors yesterday certified that already in the first eight months of 2017 gross public fixed capital formation decreased by 4.2 percent compared to the first eight months of 2016. We strongly call for a change of course; in order to grow the country and create employment we need to invest more, especially in sectors with a strong environmental impact (hydrogeological disaster, urban regeneration, energy efficiency, etc.). Secondly, employment has increased and is close to that of ten years ago. If about the same employment as ten years ago produces a GDP 6-7 percent lower than that of ten years ago, there is no happiness. That means two things. Firstly, many workers work less hours; in fact, over the last ten years, there has been a sharp decrease in hours worked per employee (in enterprises with more than ten workers this decrease has been 6%) and the often involuntary part time has increased from 14 to 20.8%. We are therefore faced with precarious and parcelled work, when it is good for a fixed time, as confirmed by the latest data from ISTAT a few days ago, which tell us that fixed-term jobs account for more than 80% of new recruitments. Secondly, the increase in employment occurs mainly in sectors with low productivity, such as tourism and catering, and this needs to be of concern. I would also add that these are sectors with low or very low salaries, which cannot contribute to growth even through support for consumption, while they can unfortunately contribute to the growth of inequalities. In fact, the increase in inequality in our country is not only due to the strong shift in income from wages to profits, but also to the strong increase in inequality within dependent labour, an inequality due to the sharp dispersion of hourly wages and the growing difference in working weeks and hours. In this context, every measure of flexibility of the labour market translates into a precariousness, as happened with the jobs act and with the Poletti decree. When we ask for a change of course at work, we ask for it on the basis of a different reading of economic reality. We call for more protection on the labour market, less ease of dismissal, regulation of fake internships and traineeships that humiliate our young people, less affordability of fixed-term work. All things that do not involve additional costs, but political choices of discontinuity. The sharp increase in inequalities is accompanied by the impoverishment of increasing sections of the population, where access to health care is increasingly difficult. We are opposed to the creeping privatization of health care and to the fact that we are increasingly focusing, for health, on corporate welfare, paid by everyone, but reserved for those who have continuous work and especially for those who work in large companies. That is why we once again call for discontinuity, as Senator Dirindin said, to reverse the fall in health spending on GDP, starting with the abolition of the superticket. Writing these objectives in the majority resolutions, as already happened before the summer for our initiative in the resolution on the DEF, is not enough, if there is not a real willingness of the Government, availability on which for now no real signals have yet arrived. To finance this and other demands, such as the blocking of the adjustment of the retirement age to life expectancy, we call for more determination in the fight against evasion and we have specific proposals on this. And instead we are re-proposed, in continuity with the past, yet another tax pardon (80 in Italy from the Unity of Italy onwards: more continuity of this way!), which rewards evaders and mocks honest taxpayers. This isn't happening. For these reasons we will not vote on the majority resolution in the Update Note to the DEF. We will not participate in this vote, but we will continue strongly to fight for adequate answers to these problems for the country in the next budget law. It is on these answers that we will also direct our vote to that law. [[Applause from the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats (Christian Democrats) and ……]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-889.ana.u57	We greet the students and students of the Istituto Antonio Rosmini in Rome who, together with their teachers, are following our work. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-889.ana.u58	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-889.ana.u59	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-889.ana.u60	D'Ambrosio Lettieri (GAL (DI, GS, MPL, RI)). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Minister, I have great esteem for your person and for the fact that you come not from political ranks, but from the academic world and from the levels of competence that have served politics, has made me hope for an attitude of greater orientation to the truth that must be told to the country. On the other hand, I fear, and I say this with all due respect, that the Document of Economics and Finance is, so to speak, domesticated to political needs and language, which I have heard from representatives of the Government and unfortunately also from you on this occasion, is not oriented to repair the short circuit that exists between the square and the Palace. Minister, I am convinced that the country does not need Nembo Kid, regardless of whether they exist or not, I see them in politics these days. I believe that the country needs stability, of great common sense and that this difficult season, in which the economic and financial difficulties have a very serious and serious impact on the levels of social cohesion, must be faced with an attitude less oriented to exalt the decimal places of an improvement that I do not see, more than to commit to recover the reasons of the situation of serious and persistent difficulties and economic suffering. A difficulty that I read, in the exercise of my political-parliamentary activity, living also in the territory, in the state of suffering of our companies, our businesses and families. I read it even more in the state of great discomfort, disillusionment, anger, protest and indignation of our young people, those young people who have no future and for whom we do not build a prospect of work in their land, to whom I fear we are delivering a passport without returning to abroad. I believe that all this emerges in the public finance data, which are also partly exposed with precise and precise documentary elements in the Economic and Financial Document. On them, in my opinion, we should have paid more attention and built, starting with the Government, a serious reflection to understand the situation of crisis and economic stagnation in the country, which cannot be repaired with the deficit coverage of the safeguard clause on the increase of VAT, which seems to me only an alchemy. Just as an alchemy is celebrating the contradictions between debt and GDP. On the other hand, we must explore the effect of a spillover on social policies, on a welfare policy that increasingly reduces cover and guarantees, which produces a condition for increasing inequalities, which exacerbates the inequalities that, on the other hand, we should repair, in order to return a true, full and implemented level of social cohesion to the intergenerational pact that appears to be seriously affected. All this in the South takes on darker colors and a situation of suffering that is seen in the condition of greater and more evident crisis. On employment I would like to recover the elements of optimism, but I cannot. I therefore want to be realistic, because I do not believe that there is any need for pessimism or optimism. I love the country, I love the tricolor and I would like to make a very modest contribution and taxpayers must start from saying the real condition of difficulty in which the country is located, with worrying unemployment, especially in the South, and a precarious condition, which is not only that of work: psychological precariousness is the condition that worries me and I think should worry us. The social policies of health care lack adequate resources without the realignment between expenditure and GDP and - please allow me, Minister and the government - without trying to say that perhaps there is a need for different governance in social policies and especially in health, because I am convinced that it is not changing the color of those who govern the country that the problem resolves. I believe that we have a duty to say something more about what can be done in terms of overall governance of a health care in which demographic dynamics and the evolution of technologies lead to a profound imbalance between demand and supply and in the ability to provide an adequate response to the demand of people who no longer care for the impossibility of accessing the health service and the consequent increase in private spending of citizens. I believe that these are the aspects that we should address, together with the fiscal pressure that we should contain more than we have managed to do, the Byzantine and obsessive bureaucracy that oppresses the freedom of enterprise, the public debt that falls, the few words about the fiscal shock that this country would need and the resources to be allocated to the recovery of a social policy that restores a state of greater cohesion among citizens. I believe that all these elements have been dealt with in a way that is sometimes inadequate and sometimes inadequate. I'm sorry about that. I think that we still have to work and hope that the reflections gathered in this House's debate and even the comments of my fellow Members, Mr Moscardelli, Mr Bianco and Mr Dirindin - who are protected from political speculation - can help to recover the reasons for putting a little more goodwill in the budget law and, above all, to say a few more words of truth to the country. For these reasons, the LAG Group will vote against this document in accordance with the different specificities. [[Applause from Senator Perrone.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-889.ana.u61	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-889.ana.u62	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-889.ana.u63	FRAVEZZI (Aut (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT)-PSI-MAIE). Mr President, Minister, representatives of the Government, colleagues and colleagues, the update we are considering is based on positive and very important elements and - let us be honest - even unthinkable until a few months ago. The latest data on GDP allow us to revise upwards the forecast for real GDP growth, which will be 1.5% this year and probably also for 2018 and 2019. These are data that comfort us and testify how the policies promoted for economic development and work have begun to bear fruit. Our growth is, in fact, influenced, as well as by the good performance of the international economy, also from the ascribable effect to the recovery of investments and to the improvement of the credit market. Moreover, the prospects of the economy benefit from the renewed confidence of the operators and the significant improvement also of the credit sector, also favoured by the interventions that we have approved here to restore our banking system to a normal situation. The only macroeconomic data that worries us is that of inflation and we say so for a country strongly indebted like Italy; inflation that, however, does not grow even in countries that are better than us, where consumption is and where there is almost full employment. And that is something on which, perhaps, we should all reflect, apart from the majority and the opposition, because we will have to deal with it in the coming months and years. The strategy of the narrow path, that is between fiscal consolidation and support for growth, has certainly allowed the country to resume to grow and, at the same time, to consolidate the public accounts. Public debt, which weighs on future prospects, reversed the upward trend, which had been constant between 2008 and 2014. Already in 2015 ISTAT, as has been said, had recorded the first decline. For 2017 a reduction is estimated compared to 2016 and for 2018 the drop below the threshold of 130 percent. Undoubtedly, therefore, the work of these years has also borne fruit in the public finances. However, we must avoid the risk of removing the issue of debt from the political debate by opposing the commitment to reducing the deficit to that for economic development and thereby dispersing the dividend of increased growth. And on this we need, perhaps, a greater sense of responsibility on the part of all political forces. The issue of debt is, in fact, a serious issue that cannot be bypassed. We need to have a responsible approach and a positive update of the economic framework makes it possible to develop policies that are conducive to the positive trend of the economy. These ten years, which started after the 2008 crisis, which had interrupted a season of great optimism, have deeply affected our social and economic reality, people's lives and their perception of the future; in particular, they have impacted on the lives of the youngest. That is why policies are needed that combine investment in innovation and opportunities for new employment by promoting the competitiveness of the economic system and at the same time redistributing wealth. This is why the second chapter of the Industry 4.0 plan is dedicated this time (there is the intention to do so) to work 4.0. We must encourage permanent recruitment and promote employment in new sectors, products and services that reduce the possible reduction and transformation of labour. An investment plan in human capital, therefore, is essential for an industrial policy that wants to innovate: investment and reduction of the tax wedge for productivity, growth and work, but also education, training network, work-training alternation, active accompanying policies, labour market services are the main commitments for the future. There is another equally important social chapter. In the last two years on absolute poverty we have stopped the landslide. This must be said: the Government Gentiloni-Silveri has filled a historical gap in our country, passing the first anti-poverty measure (the so-called income of inclusion). This is an intervention that will be launched in 2018, and we need to strengthen interventions and services to support the active part of the new instrument. Let us therefore welcome the greater resources announced by the Government. We therefore welcome the introduction of selective instruments to support youth employment, the strengthening of instruments to combat poverty, private and public investment. For the latter, we particularly appreciate the fact that part of the resources allocated will also be allocated to local administrations, which in our opinion, if virtuous, should also be targeted at measures that allow the release and use of the administrative surplus for the design and implementation of public works. In our view, these instruments will enable us to support development in its many dimensions: the quality of the economic system, integration with the worlds of training and research and welfare. What the Government is proposing to us, in fact, is an articulated strategy, whose success will be such to the extent that it will be able to involve local institutions, businesses, social partners, citizens and the intermediate bodies of society; in short, it is that inclusive growth that Minister Padoan mentioned at the beginning. This strategy must be anchored in a strong commitment of Europe, another important chapter. In order to transform the favourable economic situation into a medium to long-term expansion, based on greater innovation and social equity, we need European economic policy choices capable of promoting public investment, promoting innovative enterprises, enhancing human capital and designing effective social protection. This means that, in addition to the ECB's expansionary monetary policies, it is essential to invest in the integration process, building, in the context of the future evolution of the governance of the European Union, a European Ministry of Finance and a true European fiscal union. Only with more Europe, in fact, can we think of facing the challenges that an interconnected and globalised world imposes on us. In the context of strengthening the process of European integration, we must in fact promote reflection on the old architectures of the national states, enhancing the function of the large metropolitan areas, territories and local self-governments, which are often projected into global competition better than national systems. Then there is the problem of the end of quantitative easing, the expansionary monetary policy of the ECB, which has allowed our country to contain the cost of public debt: this must not catch us unprepared. The resources that will become available in the light of the revision of the net debt target will be aimed at avoiding the entry into force of automatic increases in VAT and excise duties, as has been said, which would have serious consequences and would not favour growth. There will not be much available, that is true, but that much that will certainly allow us to walk more surely along this narrow path that soon, thanks to the economic and budgetary policy outlined by the Government, we hope can become a road without obstacles. Our commitment for the next few months will therefore not only be to adopt a budget law that counters the need not to stifle the cyclical recovery with that of reducing the public debt, but also to favor a positive and orderly conclusion of the legislature, to deliver a strong legacy to the next Parliament and the country and not disperse the results achieved in these years in terms of growth, debt reduction and commitment to employment. In conclusion, for all these reasons, the PSI-MAIE Group for Autonomies will vote with conviction the Update Note to the DEF and the majority resolution, No 5, with the hope that they will be a good way to the budget law. We also wish the Minister good work. [[Applause from the Aut Group (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT) - PSI-MAIE.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-889.ana.u64	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-889.ana.u65	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-889.ana.u66	GUALDANI (AP-CpE-NCD). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, with the approval of the Economic and Financial Document last April, we had recorded the first real reversal of our country's trend since the economic crisis in recent years. In 2016, gross domestic product increased, unemployment and taxes decreased and structural reforms for the country were in the process of being approved and implemented. In other words, Italy is back in motion and has finally returned to growth. What has been done so far has been a fundamental reversal of the trend, but at the same time it can only be the first in a series of positive points for a full and consolidated recovery. We are satisfied with the reforms that have been implemented so far, with measures to boost employment and investment, but all this can only be a stimulus for Parliament and the Government to continue along the reform path. Since its inception, the majority have pursued a strategy aimed at relaunching public and private investment and, in particular, supporting domestic consumption, by increasing household disposable income and reducing the tax burden. These key factors, together with the ambitious multiannual programme of structural reforms, are helping to improve the competitiveness of the production system. Far from feeling satisfied, Minister, we are aware that the past year must form the basis for a more solid and structured new development, involving all sectors of the country. The majority and the government are well aware that the obstacles to be overcome in order to achieve a full recovery are still multiple and rooted for too long in our country system. In any case, the data provided through the update note to the DEF 2017 clarify that the Italian economic recovery has strengthened since the last quarter of 2016, in a context of more dynamic growth at European and global level. This emerges from both gross domestic product and employment data and hours worked. In the three most recent quarters, I recall that real GDP has increased at a cyclical rate of around 0.4 per cent; the trend growth rate in the second quarter has reached 1.5%. On the job front, in the first half of the year employees grew by 1.1 percent on an annual basis, while hours worked increased by 2.8 percent. This promising picture allows to raise the forecast of real GDP growth for 2017 from 1.1 percent of the April Economic and Finance Document to 1.5% of today. Several indicators suggest that growth in the third quarter could be higher than in the previous quarter, thanks to the dynamism of industry and certain service sectors, such as transport and tourism. The estimates of manufacturing companies about orders and production are at the highest levels since the start of the recovery; turnover has already grown strongly in the first five months of the year, while the production of capital goods took off in June and July. Even pushing the outlook beyond the current quarter, the economic situation can evolve further in a positive way. The production system will have to be supported by a strengthening of the detaxation and productivity premiums on small and medium-sized enterprises, to be guaranteed through the same level of taxation for the different legal forms in which the company is organised. Minister, in conclusion, I would like to express my personal appreciation and appreciation of the Popular Alternative Group for the future horizon outlined in this Update Note, characterised by courage and prudence, determination and awareness, innovation and thoughtfulness. We can therefore only vote in favour of the Commission's note. [[Applause from the AP-CpE-NCD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-889.ana.u67	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-889.ana.u68	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-889.ana.u69	DE PETRIS (Misto-SI-SEL). Mr President, yesterday we also gave a very clear opinion at the press conference on the Update Note and the government's move. Once again, but this time with even greater force, we wanted to define it as a missed opportunity because, frankly, Minister, we would have expected that at least in the last maneuver of this legislature there could be a shot of the kidneys, that is the possibility of a reversal of the trend. Instead we find ourselves again - this time in an accentuated way - with the enthusiastic presentation of a series of data. The recovery is presented with absolute enthusiasm, as if it were entirely the result of the so-called structural reforms. We wonder if it's real glory. It doesn't look like real glory to us. Mr Minister, as we read all the data well, they are much less exciting than they are presented, because we are talking - of course - about greater growth and a small reduction in public debt, but, as you know, the whole upward revision of growth does not correspond at all to an increase in productivity or wages. There is, therefore, another element that should definitely make people think: the internal market is still extremely depressed because of low incomes. Another fact that should be a wake-up call is that the small increase in GDP is even greater than the potential GDP, which, as is clear to all and above all to you, Minister, which is an economist and should therefore know better than all, means that the fundamentals are not there. In fact, as other colleagues have said a short while ago, the resumé is mainly due to exogenous and non-endogenic factors, i.e. not to your major structural reforms, but, 80%, to the favourable exchange rate of the euro, quantitative easing and low interest rates (which we do not know how long they will last). Perhaps this needed a reversal of the trend and it was absolutely necessary to change the register. In fact, the filming, as it has arrived, can go back if the exogenous elements that produced this positive result fail. The other elements that are very close to our heart and that we want to analyze concern the social part. Although employment data are presented with enthusiasm as a result of jobs act, they - alas - once again tell us that we continue to have absolutely negative records at European level. Let us think, for example, of the European record (at 19.9%) of the number of Neets, i.e. of young people aged between 15 and 24 who are not looking for work, and of the fact that the number of people living in extreme poverty is increasing. The figure of the work is of ulterior precariousness, having led to this the structural reform of the jobs act and the policies of incentives to rain and decontribution in favor of the enterprises, which have produced nothing. Here we get to the other point I want to point out. You once again call for a derogation from the budget balance. This is a paradoxical thing, let me tell you. This is the fifth time that the derogation is requested and that Parliament votes on it after, almost unanimously, the political forces then present in Parliament voted enthusiastically on the inclusion of the principle of balanced budget into the Constitution. It was always like this, first with the Letta Government, then with the Renzi Government and now with the Gentiloni Government. The continuous postponement of the application of the budget balance obviously produces resources. How have these resources been used in the last five years? That is the point that we are once again debating. These resources have been used for electoral manoeuvres, bonuses and decontribution interventions that have not produced that recovery and that lasting growth that were absolutely necessary and achievable taking advantage of the international economic situation. Continue to make this mistake: ask for the derogation and present us with a maneuver of EUR 20 billion, most of which (EUR 15.6 billion) serves to sterilize VAT increases. The other billions, on the other hand, are again allocated a little bit to refinancing the public employment contract and then to decontribution. Let's keep going! This policy has not produced results from the point of view of stable employment and the quality of employment. When the incentives are over, the increase in employment will also end, and we, once again, will have wasted resources. This is serious, because the economic situation would have allowed a very different operation to be carried out. In conclusion, we have been calling for a serious policy of public investment for a long time - and we have also stressed this in our motion for a resolution - and the only one that can, at the moment, bring about a favourable economic situation and stabilise economic recovery. This is particularly important in terms of employment, climate change and the real reverse of the development model. A point of GDP could have been invested in small and medium-sized projects, for the care of the territory, for safety, for transport and for cities, which have a very strong problem of competitiveness and quality of life. These are the operations that, at least this time, we would have expected, not to mention what happens in health care. Ours is a country that is suffering and your enthusiastic data does nothing about it, because it would like to have a message of hope in the future, which once again, from the maneuver in question, absolutely does not come. For all these reasons, the Italian Left will vote strongly against the majority's motion for a resolution and against the derogation, not because we are for a balanced budget, but because you have wasted and thrown out of the window all the resources that had been released. [[Applause from the Misto-SI-SEL Group and the Senator Ricchiuti.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-889.ana.u70	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-889.ana.u71	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-889.ana.u72	Mr Lezzi (M5S). Mr President, I can only think of an adjective to define the recent hearing and the latest statements by Minister Padoan: tragicomic. Minister, you stand up as a paladin, like the one who is blocking the increases in VAT and who has been good at talking to the European Union and asking for a new deficit, namely the possibility of making new public debt, because he wants to help and support growth and does not want to slow it down. This is strange, however, because you have included the safeguard clauses yourself, Minister, together with former Prime Minister Matteo Renzi. They have not come down from heaven and you have not inherited them, but they are the result of your non-economic politics, of the fact that you have spent the last three years campaigning at the expense of the Italians, who find themselves having to pay, with new public debt, your campaign propaganda. This is the reality: the safeguard clauses were inserted at the end of 2014 to cover the famous 80 euro bonus. Another pillar of his declarations is the million jobs and the fact that the structural reform of the jobs act would lead to this increase in employment. It is true that compared to 2008 there are almost the same employees, but Minister Padoan should also say that, compared to 2008, the amount of hours worked fell by a billion hours. It should also say, Minister Padoan, that wages, net of inflation, have fallen by 3.4%. So it is useless to sing victory, also because I would like to know, Minister Padoan, where has gone to finish that young man who finally could have contracted the mortgage, bought the house and could have married, strong of an indefinite contract, thanks to the jobs act. ISTAT also tells us that time contracts are increasing, not to mention those of job administration: precarious on precarious! The jobs act has absolutely nothing to do with this increase in employment. Also, always talking about employment and waste of public money probably became boring, but we are the only ones to remember that we are going back to the starting point, exactly in 2014. What do I mean? You have made a very bad decontribution, which has cost more than EUR 20 billion, against which you have deleted, abolished and repealed a structural rule that helped the employment of unemployed people, both in the North and in the Centre and in the South, especially in artisan enterprises. You abolished it. We are returning to the starting point and in the next law of stability there are only peanuts to give because of the narrow path due to your non-economic policy of recent years. Here too, therefore, you have a very serious fault, to the detriment of young people and the unemployed. However, there are other resources to be recovered: the public employment contract must be fixed; give at least half a billion euros to the Provinces, which you have pretended to abolish; distribute a little money to the right and to the missing and then arrives, impeccable as always, the fight against tax evasion. I want to talk about this fight against tax evasion, because I've been hearing about it for four and a half years. I don't come up with anything, I don't do theories, I examine the data provided by the Revenue Agency and the Court of Auditors. The Court of Auditors states that the results of 2016 in terms of combating tax evasion reflect a significant decrease in revenues due to the ordinary activity of substantive assessment and control: they decreased by 17% compared to 2015 and by more than 20% compared to 2014. We fought tax evasion with the condons, with the voluntary disclosure. Not only that: we have condemned companies that work with the State to split payment, derogating from the rules established by the European institutions, which immediately come to the rescue. You had also promised, since you established the split payment, that there would be a facilitated lane for businesses forced to pay VAT to their suppliers, but that they do not collect it from the state and wait for its reimbursement for months and months. So the state can be financed virtually for free, but our businesses, those that work with the public administration, are increasingly choked by lack of liquidity. Is this your fight against tax evasion? A simple accounting calculation for companies, when the investigations collapse. Who knows how, you don't go knocking on the doors of some important friend, who you should go to instead. Then we talk about debt reduction. I really don't know what sources you take the data from, and it really doesn't seem crazy to even have to specify these numbers. In December 2015, in fact, the Italian public debt was 2,172 billion euros; now we have broken the 2,300 billion debt ceiling. Stay here to ask for new flexibility, new debt, which are then future taxes for Italians; but the problem is not even having made new debt: it's how you spent it, and I said it at the beginning. You only spent it on election propaganda. We are, therefore, again here pretending to support this paladin who blocks the safeguard clauses, the superhero intervenes on clauses that he himself created, and then you want to say that we should also vote for a sense of responsibility? No. We are consistent with what we have always told you: your economic policy is bankrupt. The country is still on its knees and the most mortifying thing is to see that the gap of unemployment and growth between us and the average of the rest of Europe, since Matteo Renzi was installed, before, and now with Gentiloni, does nothing but widen: not only do we grow less, but we grow less than before. The figure of the Bank of Italy shows that growth is actually due to four fifths of exogenous factors. I urge myself to say that, if there had been no government action, if, instead of saving the friends of the banks you had thought of punishing them when they were wrong and you had thought of the good of the Italians, that growth would probably have been even higher. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] All you had to do was stand still. It would have been better. It would have been better to see you stopped. Instead you acted and did it wrong, punishing the Italians. Therefore, we will vote no to the resolution and we will vote no to the permit for the deviation, because for the umpteenth time new bonuses are expected, without investments, since public investment has already decreased in 2017. You promised, with Industry 4.0, at least two billion media a year, but already this year the indiscretions speak to us of a little more than a billion, if you can recover it. How do companies plan the future with promises that are kept sobbing? That is why we are going to vote in favour of both the authorization of the deviation and the motion for a resolution accepted by the Government. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-889.ana.u73	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-889.ana.u74	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-889.ana.u75	Mr Azzollini (FI-PdL XVII). Mr President, it is clear what the approach of this DEF is. In the DEF, or rather in NADEF, on the one hand there is the recording of an acceleration of growth that the Government attaches as a consequence of its initiatives and, on the other hand, a medium-term objective that again this year, as in previous years, is postponed. These are the two sizes to consider. Let's start with the first: I do not deny that part of the acceleration to growth is due to government measures. In particular, I believe that the effective measures were those on the supply side: I am thinking of the elimination of labour costs on IRAP or the so-called Industry 4.0, i.e. incentives directly affecting business accidents. There is no doubt that, on this side, the government's manoeuvre has contributed to the acceleration of growth. Here, however, the reasons for consensus for the government have ended and dissent begins. In NADEF there is no attempt to reflect on other issues, the first of which is the following: Italian growth continues to characterize itself in order to be inferior to that of other European countries. There is no reflection on this fact. In fact, before growth, if a country grows less than other European countries, the gap with other countries is widening and this is naturally felt on the shoulders of citizens, workers and the nation as a whole. The second question is that, of course, the acceleration of growth has also benefited from international growth. There is no doubt that an important part of this growth is due to the international component. One might smile at the thought that one year the government is wrong by default and another year is wrong by excess, but I mean that perhaps it is useless to attribute too many merits, because accelerations in the economy are not the result of a Cartesian scheme, but of the will and collaboration of so many events that affect and produce unwanted effects at the beginning. So it was, in my opinion: the government has collaborated on the growth, but the acceleration depends largely on exogenous events to the action of government. This is important, also because there is no careful reflection on how to make this growth structural. I would like to give just one example for reasons of time, but I would like to stress this as a man from the Mezzogiorno: agriculture is the most important private sector in the Mezzogiorno. The number of people employed in agriculture is enormous compared to other private sectors. There is no reflection on this because the politician, as I believe all of us, of acceleration and growth are mainly concerned with the employment consequences. In agriculture, for a very confusing and highly penalising regulatory framework, both for workers and employers, there is a risk of collapse. We must begin to have an immediate impact on these matters in order to ensure that growth is structural and therefore affects, above all, employment and the status of workers, as well as a healthy and robust business situation. In the same way, in my opinion, the contradiction between the acceleration of growth and the deviation of the medium term is important. Over the years it has been said that the maneuver had to have temperant elements for the occurrence of exceptional events, for certain circumstances defined within Europe and that these served to allow to carry out anti-cyclical maneuvers of growth; instead, this time it is said that the growth accelerates, but we also move the medium-term objective. I must say that this has been the subject of debate in the Commission and the rapporteur, Mr Guerrieri Paleotti, has identified theoretical reasons for some interest which will be useful to consider in the debate, but here in this House consideration is political. It seems to me that the anticyclical element is being violated and that does not convince us. Mr President, the last point concerns the issue of investment. The Minister himself acknowledges that private investment is still below pre-crisis levels and that public investment is suffering. In contrast, it is said that we need to simplify, but we call for the procurement code, which I have said several times - and I repeat this - I believe is one of the reasons why public investment is not a real public investment. In my opinion, this is a very important contradiction that we can only disagree with the Government. I am afraid of the absolute value of the debt, as my previous colleague quite rightly said. That fractional reduction in the debt-to-GDP ratio invoked doesn't convince me, not least because ISTAT has recently made a little too much mistakes and even corrected in a certain amount of time, so who knows what can happen in the meantime. What matters to me, however, is this: if growth were ever to bring back a small increase in interest rates, as it should be logical, this would have a very significant impact on the total stock of debt. There is not in the Update Note in question, and therefore in the budget maneuver, a careful reflection on how to structurally reduce debt, which is the real scourge of our economy. That is why, Mr President, I am voting against the Update Note and the report on medium-term deviation. [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-889.ana.u76	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-889.ana.u77	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-889.ana.u78	TONINI (PD). Mr President, representatives of the Government, fellow senators, at the beginning of this sitting you reminded us that in a few minutes we will have to vote two votes, the first of which is of absolute constitutional importance, as well as the international and European position of Italy. Frankly, I respect the views of all my colleagues, but I find it hard to understand the reasons why the main opposition forces have announced the vote against the majority resolution that it proposes to the Assembly to allow the Government to deviate from the medium-term objective, which is budget balance. I would like to remind you that the structural balance of the budget, as it is right to say in a technically precise manner, is provided not only for by our international commitments, but also for our Constitutional Charter, so it is a constitutional constraint that we have and the Constitution itself, in Article 81, states that this is not a stupid constraint that applies obtusely in all circumstances, but must take into account the conditions of the economic cycle and the extraordinary and exceptional factors. If these circumstances arise, Parliament may authorise the Government but, be careful, it may authorise it by a larger majority than is necessary for the confidence of the Government. With this, somehow, our Constitution calls all political forces to assume responsibility on this point. Of course, it is not mandatory for anyone to agree with the Government. It can well be said that the Government was wrong to propose this deviation in Europe, because we are in order to pursue the objective of the structural balance of the budget in a clear and precise way, without deviations. I, colleagues, would fully respect those who adopt this position and take responsibility for what it says. I find it more difficult, Mr Lezzi (a colleague with whom I esteem and work daily in the Budget Committee), to understand the reasons for the No of the 5 Star Movement when it says in the device of your resolution: It commits the Government: (...) to take all the necessary measures to accelerate the growth rate of the economy, which is beautiful, by derogating from the 2018-2020 programming in progress to the austerity rules imposed by the fiscal compact, in order to veto (...); to suspend the application of the achievement of the balance of the budget and therefore the respect of the debt within 3% of the GDP, i.e. you propose a debt above 3% of GDP and say no to the deviation that postpones the target by one year? [[Applause from the PD Group]] Senator, but it's as if someone said that the government is proposing to go to Milan and you, instead, want to go to Switzerland, indeed, to Cape Nord and then take the train to Naples. You can't do that. This does not mean good politics, but bad propaganda. [[Applause from the PD Group]] The country doesn't grow like that. We are going towards an electoral confrontation that will be harsh and harsh. It is right that it is hard and harsh, but it must also be correct and it is true if we say things correctly, if we are on the data, if we do not attribute false things to ourselves, if we do not say something at a certain time and the opposite an hour later, if we do not say no to the flexibility that the government demands because we want ten times so much and then we accuse the Government of making an easy debt. But the same thing, Mr Azzollini, may I say, applies to the resolution of Forza Italia. I would accept the criticism from Forza Italia that, as happens, in the dialectic between right and left sometimes - rarely in Italy because we have to return to the historical Right - embodies the right of rigor, of the reduction of spending as Quintino Sella said and everything else. Rarely has this happened in Italy but sometimes it has happened. Senator Azzollini tells us that we have to stop debt, we have to reduce it. But then we read the resolution that would like to commit the government to an endless list of expenses: greater liquidity to local authorities (and those who may be against), reduction of tax pressure (and those who may be against), measures to stimulate growth, consumption and domestic demand. And more: lowering the age for access to retirement, reinstituting the system of old age allowances and pensions (I do not know how many billions are needed to encrypt these items), interventions in favour of agricultural enterprises, the tourism sector, enhancement of cultural heritage, interventions to prevent geological risk. The resolution provides for a programme of expenditure for which two state budgets would not be sufficient. And then, ladies and gentlemen, one can, indeed, criticize the Government when it stands in opposition. I've been to the opposition for a long time so I don't say that to denigrate the job but the opposition is paid to denigrate the government, it's meant for that. But let's distinguish between moment and moment. Of course there are, also in the documents of the opposition, also in that of the 5 Star Movement, also in that of Forza Italia and in that of the left and other groups, interesting and critical ideas, on which a parliamentary and political dialogue before the country can be serious. But this is really bad propaganda. I cannot believe that the 5 Star Movement and Forza Italia vote against the motion for a resolution calling for this margin of flexibility, if not - I repeat - in the presence of a motion that says that they want and that they undertake to make, in the next parliamentary term, restrictive policies and no more expansive policies. If you say that, then you are serious people and you have our esteem. [[Applause from the PD and Aut groups (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT) - PSI-MAIE.]] Otherwise, fall in that case of which a great political leader, Giancarlo Pajetta, spoke, who told the young political leaders of his party, the Italian Communist Party (I don't want President Napolitano, maybe I say some nonsense), that there are idiots and political leaders, and that the difference between these two categories is that the political leaders do not believe in their propaganda. Because I know that my colleagues are not idiots, but they are political leaders, I know for a fact that they do not believe in their propaganda and then I invite them to vote seriously. [[Extended applause from the PD, AP-CpE-NCD and Aut (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT) and PSI-MAIE groups. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-889.ana.u79	We shall proceed to the vote on the motion for a resolution on the report pursuant to Article 6 (5) of Law No 243 of 2012. I would warn you that an absolute majority of the members of the Assembly is required for this resolution. Therefore, the vote on the motion for a resolution will take place by electronic means by simultaneous ballot. I therefore refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of motion for resolution No 100, tabled by Senators Zanda, Bianconi and Zeller, to the report pursuant to Article 6 (5) of Law No 243 of 2012. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. [[See Annex B. Applause from the PD, AP-CpE-NCD and Aut groups (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT) - PSI-MAIE.]] We move on to motion for a resolution No 5 to the DEF Update Note, accepted by the Government, on which amendments have been tabled, which I call on the authors to explain.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-889.ana.u80	Mr President, I would just like to say, in general terms, that we wanted to try to make a contribution to the motion for a majority resolution by including some issues, particularly those on health, which we also discussed during the hearing of the Minister and the Treaty during the general debate in the Commission. We also wanted to introduce some parts that we thought were more important than those included in our motion for a resolution. We would like the utmost consideration on health issues, which are important and close to people, in particular the superticket and the adjustment of the percentage of GDP allocated to Italian health care. This percentage is falling under worrying limits, which we would like the Government to commit itself to bringing back to European level figures.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-889.ana.u81	I call on the rapporteur and the representative of the Government to comment on the amendments under consideration.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-889.ana.u82	Mr President, I am against all the amendments.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-889.ana.u83	Mr President, the Government's opinion is in line with that of the rapporteur. On the subject of health, I would point out that the Government is fully aware of the point of the majority resolution which addresses this issue. That is why the opinion is also opposed to that amendment.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-889.ana.u84	We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 5.1. SANTANGELO (M5S). We call for simultaneous ballots to be carried out by electronic means. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Amendment 5.1 tabled by Senators Mandelli and Comaroli. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 5.2, tabled by Senators Mandelli and Comaroli. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 5.3 tabled by Senators Mandelli and Comaroli. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 5.4, tabled by Senators Mandelli and Comaroli. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by a simultaneous vote on Amendment 5.5 tabled by Senators Mandelli and Comaroli. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 5.6 tabled by Senators Mandelli and Comaroli. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Amendment 5.7 tabled by Senators Mandelli and Comaroli. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of motion for a resolution No 5 tabled by Senators Zanda, Bianconi and Zeller. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). Motions for resolutions No 1, tabled by Senator Barani and other Senators, No 2, tabled by Senator De Petris and other Senators, No 3, tabled by Senator Cappelletti and other Senators, No 4, tabled by Senator D'Ambrosio Lettieri and other Senators, and No 6, tabled by Senator Romani Paolo and other Senators are therefore excluded. The review of the Update Note is thus concluded.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-889.ana.u85	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-889.ana.u86	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-889.ana.u87	Mr Giovanardi (PL-Id) Mr President, unfortunately I cannot take advantage of the presence of the Minister, who obviously has other commitments, but I would like to point out that this morning we presented an interview that we would like to discuss urgently. I think we can have different ideas about the ius soli; in fact, an important parliamentary debate is taking place and everything is legitimate. However, it seems questionable to me that an association of teachers is organizing meetings in schools throughout Italy, with the involvement of children from the age of six to ten, in class, outside the class, at school level and publicly, indoctrinating children, included in that age group, on the need to indirectly pass this law under certain conditions. Now, then, would pass the precedent that a party, association or movement of any kind through teachers, in an organized manner, uses its adherents in the public school to make propaganda to that party, that idea and that movement. And that seems absolutely unacceptable to me. I therefore ask that the Ministry intervene because freedom of teaching is sacred. A single teacher in class can legitimately rely on freedom of teaching. That a national association with 4,000 teachers' signatures organizes, instead, in all schools where children are involved on such a sensitive subject seems absolutely out of place and I ask the Government and the Minister of Education to respond to our interrogation to avoid precedents that would make the school a battlefield.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-889.ana.u88	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-889.ana.u89	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-889.ana.u90	EXPOSED Stefano (PD). Mr President, thank you for giving me the opportunity to speak even though I did not register in time. Taking the opportunity of the presence of Minister Minniti, I wanted to point out an issue that concerns the important Aurora district of Turin, where, unfortunately, there is a situation of tension linked to drug dealing and the increasingly massive presence of abusive shops. Of course we have involved the municipal administration for its competence, but I think it is necessary a greater and stronger intervention of the Ministry of the Interior, starting from its territorial offices. The Aurora district has always managed integration very seriously so far. In recent months, even for a number of choices made, a significant presence of so-called common crime has been concentrated in some areas of this neighborhood. Moreover, I remember that this area has been in the attention of the national chronicles also for the aggression suffered by our colleague Airola, who has made known to the whole country that neighborhood. However, when the spotlight is out, there is still a very delicate situation in that area. I think it is necessary that the Ministry of the Interior strongly sensitises the prefecture because I am particularly concerned about a situation that, sooner or later, could produce tensions with residents who have always been very attentive and available also with respect to situations of integration and management of the relationship with immigrants. Let us bear in mind that few people can ruin an integration that has worked so far.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-889.ana.u91	The motions, questions and questions received by the Presidency will be published in Annex B to today's report. I recall that the Senate will return to public session today, at 4.30 p.m., on the same agenda. The sitting was closed at 13.28 a.m.
