ParlaMint-IT_2017-07-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-867.ana.u1	The sitting is open (9.32 a.m.). The Minutes shall be read. Mr Volpoli, Secretary, gave a reading of the Minutes of the sitting of the previous day.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-07-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-867.ana.u2	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-07-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-867.ana.u3	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-07-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-867.ana.u4	MARTELLI (M5S). Madam President, I would like to ask for the vote on the Minutes, subject to a quorum check. Verification of quorum
ParlaMint-IT_2017-07-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-867.ana.u5	I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators, by electronic procedure. (The request is supported). I therefore call on the senators to make their presence known by electronic means. (Follows the quorum check.) The Senate has a quorum. Resumption of the debate on the Minutes I put the Minutes to the vote. It's approved.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-07-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-867.ana.u6	The list of senators on leave and absent on assignment received from the Senate, as well as further communications to the Assembly, will be published in Annex B to today's Minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-07-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-867.ana.u7	I would warn you that qualified votes can be taken in the course of today's sitting by electronic means. Therefore, from this moment on, the period of 20 minutes from the notice provided for in Article 119 (1) of the Regulation (9.40 a.m.).
ParlaMint-IT_2017-07-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-867.ana.u8	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-07-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-867.ana.u9	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-07-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-867.ana.u10	ROMANI Paolo (FI-PdL XVII). Madam President, yesterday an important hearing was held by the Minister of Interior Minniti in the Commissions of Defence and Foreign Affairs and the Minister anticipated what we have read in the newspapers this morning, that is, an important commitment of the military forces of our country in Libyan waters, of rejection and containment compared to what is happening. On more than one occasion our Group has called for this commitment and we believe that the decision, which is also the daughter of the letter that finally the President-designate of the Libyan Presidential Council Sarraj sent us (I must say before the "journey" in Paris) in which an intervention of the Italian Government is asked, seems to be on the point of being assumed and finally the Italian Executive seems to respond positively. It seems to me to be a historic change from what is happening in Libyan waters, and so it seems to me very important that the Government and the President of the Council of Ministers should be in a position to report to Parliament next week in this House. Let us allow the government time to define the rules of engagement in the Council of Ministers which I believe are planned, but not confirmed, for Friday this week. But I believe that before this House closes its work it is essential that the Government comes to this House to inform Members of the decision of the Commission on such an important event. I therefore ask the Presidency formally and officially to make it possible for this to happen.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-07-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-867.ana.u11	The Presidency takes note of this request, which indeed has a basis for the very important events that are taking place. The Minister for Relations with Parliament is here, and I believe that he will interpret this requirement and, in agreement with the Presidency of the Senate, he will be able to agree on the modalities of this possible information from the President of the Council.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-07-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-867.ana.u12	Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to say that the President of the Council of Ministers sent the following letter: "Rome, 26 July 2017 Madam President, I inform you that the President of the Republic, by his decree of today, adopted on my proposal, has accepted the resignation resigned by sen. Dr. Massimo CASSANO from the position of State Secretary for Labour and Social Policy. F.to Paolo Gentiloni.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-07-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-867.ana.u13	The next item is the continuation of the debate on draft law No 2879, already approved by the House of Deputies. Senator Moscardelli is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-07-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-867.ana.u14	Madam President, representatives of the Government, ladies and gentlemen, there have been many useful contributions in the debate on the conversion into law of the decree-law. Above all, however, in the debate in this House, I believe that there has been a controversy and a communication to the citizens that is a bad service to our country. We have done a positive job in the Commission, and I acknowledge that President Marino has carried on, in a restricted area such as the conversion of a decree-law that left no room for change, a very important work, with the contribution of all the members of the Commission on the agendas which, accepted by the Commission, have a significant value. I would like to point out that the chosen route mainly helps the hundreds of thousands of families and companies that would have to repay loans with widespread insolvency and with a blocking of the operation of the two credit institutions that have a fundamental importance in the territory where they operate most. With respect to this we cannot therefore give the communication that our country and the institutions are rendering a bad service. Meanwhile, the measure adopted started from a procedure that saw the interest of five large banking groups, Italian and foreign, and an Italian insurance group. However, the only real offers to be taken into consideration, especially with the aim of maintaining operational continuity and ensuring stability so as not to create damage, especially to companies and families, were essentially two, of which only the offer of the Intesa Sanpaolo company had the ability to cover two companies submitted to compulsory administrative liquidation, guaranteeing precisely those objectives, in their entirety, that we had set ourselves. From the point of view of the instruments used, important figures are being shot, but in fact, beyond the liquidity injection of the EUR 5 billion, we are talking about guarantees that should be used as much as possible in the worst possible scenario. In fact, we must bear in mind that the framework to which we have been authorised by the European institutions is a framework that will also depend a great deal on both macroeconomic events and on the management of a series of deteriorated credits that, in the most pessimistic scenario, can concern both the retrocession of the credits of which Intesa São Paulo takes risks and of the others to which SGA will provide. The economic framework before us, however, actually marks positive elements: all the data relating to the revision of GDP growth estimates by all the national and international agencies, the data available to us on export, on invoicing, on industrial production, on orders, give, instead, all an indication of this operation that gives further stability to our banking system. It also uses an instrument already tested in Germany a few years ago, at a difficult stage, before the entry into force of the rules on crisis situations in the banking system, which gave useful results. We are talking about interventions amounting to EUR 200 billion for Germany alone. In this case there is an intervention of management of the mass of credits, which has already lightened the banking system for 18 billion and makes it more solid also in the comments of the observers and the markets at international level, thanks to which it is likely to assume that the worst scenario will not occur and that the injection of liquidity of the State will be limited and will be able to recover an important amount of credits compared to those that today are valued as risk credits. I therefore believe that we should send a message of confidence to citizens and businesses, a message that strengthens our banking system. It is wrong, on a subject like this, to pass on to the country the considerations I have heard in this House, even if not on the part of everyone because just concerns and remarks have also been pointed out and there is no need to strangle the debate or reject entirely criticism and objections. For the rest, it is wrong to make propaganda that is wrong. I shall conclude and ask you to give me my written statement so that it can be annexed to the Minutes of today's sitting. In essence, the message that I believe we have to convey to the country is that the instrument used through this special procedure, that is, not the atomic administrative forced liquidation that would have caused enormous damage to citizens and businesses, I believe should be conveyed by everyone with a sense of responsibility. In fact, we are approving a useful measure for citizens and businesses first and then also for the banking system and for our economy. [[Applause from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-07-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-867.ana.u15	The general debate is closed. I call the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-07-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-867.ana.u16	Madam President, since I do not miss the dynamics of this House, I will be as concise as possible, but I cannot fail to reply briefly to the general debate, which is very welcome in some respects, but which leaves great concern in others. I would like to remind myself that we have come under the condition that the European Central Bank has declared the two banks in a state of failure. After that there was an intervention by the Single Resolution Board which considered these two banks irrelevant. You know what that would have meant? I say that in response to Senator Petraglia who observed that bank bailout was one of the worst pages of this legislature. Imagine if there hadn't been these interventions what would have happened. From this point of view, I greatly appreciated the intellectual honesty of Senator Sonego, who made an analysis of the failure of banks and, while outlining a fundamentally sociological framework, admitted structural elements of weakness, so he came to say that rescue is the result of national solidarity. (9:50 p.m.) (The rapporteur was Mr Mauro Maria, who followed). We cannot think here that, on the one hand, we must not intervene because we must protect the right of taxpayers; on the other hand, we must restore everything because otherwise we do not protect the right of savers. I know that this is part of a complex and articulated dialectic that there is between the concept of bailout (once the State intervened to restore the banks) and the concept of bail-in, which at some point prevailed, with which it was said that those who had committed themselves, i.e. shareholders and subordinated bondholders, had to intervene. To say that the two things have to be kept, means to want "the full barrel and the drunken wife" [[Applause from Senators Bencini and Molinari]] and, when this is argued in a rather questionable way, I do not think it is absolutely acceptable. I want to mention one last element: there can be data that is not shared and there can be different readings of the elements, which are part of a debate. For example, I appreciated some passages from the intervention of Senator Bottici, because they represented a different way of seeing things from a political point of view, compared to that of the majority and those who supported the decree-law in question: I mean, for example, when the senator wondered why we have been trying to stabilize a system for three years or to have given a different reading of banking communication. These are real data, which are interpreted in a certain way. First of all, I would like to point out that, until now, we have intervened on three different cases: we have done so once by applying the burden sharing, with regard to the four banks, once with two different types of intervention on the two Venetian banks and once, on the Monte dei Paschi di Siena (MPS), with a precautionary recapitalisation, against a negative stress test. However, we have never applied bail-in to try to defend the sparing citizen. There may therefore be a different interpretation of the facts, but one cannot say things that are completely disconnected from reality. For example, I was struck by a passage from the intervention of Senator Barani, who managed to say that, in this case, we should do what we did for the Mount of the Paschi of Siena. I remembered, however, that on that occasion he had said something different and therefore I went to resume the shorthand report of his speech on the measure on Monte dei Paschi: on that occasion he had said things completely different and so I am pleased that there has been a moment of resistance compared to the past. So, either we have the intellectual honesty to deal with these issues with a different cut, or what we do only causes damage to the country. I believe that the majority have acted in an important and significant way, bypassing the negative indications of the Single resolution board and by applying the Italian transposition legislation, which has allowed us to reconsider systemic those two banks for the territory and which allows us to stand with our backs towards Europe, going to safeguard 200,000 savers, 120,000 entrepreneurs and the jobs of those who worked in the two banks. I say this because I believe that we senators also have the great privilege of speaking for the shorthand report. Since we are not listening much to each other within this assembly, at least we have the opportunity to leave something in writing, so that those who come after, as I have just mentioned, will be able to judge whether we have acted for the good of the country or not. [[Applause from the PDe Group of Senators Bencini and Molinari.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-07-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-867.ana.u17	I call the representative of the Government.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-07-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-867.ana.u18	Madam President, I do not intend to speak.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-07-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-867.ana.u19	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-07-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-867.ana.u20	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-07-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-867.ana.u21	Mr Capelletti (M5S). Mr President, pursuant to Rule 96 of our Rules of Procedure, I would ask that we do not proceed to the Rules of Procedure. The reasons for this request are basically those already put forward in the various interventions that followed in general discussion by the colleagues of the 5 Star Movement. There are, however, also some formal reasons, Madam President. For example, the Finance Commission voted more than 200 amendments without knowing the opinions of the Budget Commission. We then gathered the confidences of our colleagues in the majority who told us that they would like to speak in debate on the amending proposals that we were only able to discuss in the Commission, but they could not do so. The Commission had been convened at 8 p.m. and work continued until midnight and this would have led to a continuation of work until the early hours of the morning, so there was no discussion on this. Then there are assessments, perhaps more important, political and merit. This decree-law contains three substantive errors that have not been touched at all. First of all, it completely ignores the victims of bank cracks. It inexplicably gives a third competing bank the healthy parts of the two failing banks and does nothing to allow justice to take its course, so to implement a principle that we all share: who has wrong pays. No, with this decree-law who did wrong doesn't pay. For these reasons the measure had to be changed without hesitation. We have tabled a number of amendments in the Commission which provided for the insolvency of banks in order to allow corporate leadership to be prosecuted also for the crime of bankruptcy and thus prolong the limitation periods; but if we extend the limitation periods then we arrive at a judgment that is probably feared by the policy that is collusion with this system of criminal management of banking institutions. We then tabled other amendments which gave the good bank the responsibility for the litigation for the facts and acts that occurred before the transfer, because it was necessary to allow the applicants to have a real opportunity to see their rights recognized. Here we have applicants, i.e. the swindled subjects, who are more than 210,000 who, while being right in the debate, at the end of a trial with a sentence cannot be compensated. Finally, Madam President, we asked that the historical and artistic heritage held by them, which should have gone to the State, be excluded from the sale of the banks. On this too there has been great convergence: over seventy mayors have appealed to the Government to do so. We would then have liked to table amendments in order to allow swindled shareholders to have access to a solidarity fund, but fed by the interbank deposit protection fund. Finally, by accepting the requests of Minister Padoan, evidently isolated within the PD and within the majority and the Government, we had proposed the perpetual ban from the public offices of former administrators in case of recognition of serious responsibilities. Even yesterday, Minister Padoan - was relaunched by the agencies - agreed on this point, which is among the various points that have been rejected by his Government and by his own majority in the Commission. I mean, no more mocking voters. Just find justifications and try to put your conscience in place with unqualified agendas, made only to throw smoke in the eyes of citizens. To the citizens, who have already suffered too much, what do you want me to give an agenda at the end of the parliamentary term, no matter how much the government engages? What is worth a commitment from a government that is destined to end its activity from here to six months? Then nothing so far has been done by the government to restore the victims of the crac. A much more binding commitment was needed and the decree-law had to be amended. Or we can just turn around and keep pretending nothing. Perhaps this will make it possible to earn a candidacy for the next election. We know that putting loyalty before the party secretariat in the interests of the citizens may be repaid, but it remains the shame to have betrayed the legitimate aspiration to justice of more than 210,000 swindled citizens and their families. I conclude with the words of Fr.Torta, President, who became in the Triveneto a point of reference of citizens, the more than 200,000 citizens cheated by the banks: "You, if you will, know the streets: choose one that honors justice and your citizens." The choice is to approve, pursuant to article 96, paragraph 1, of the Regulation, the request not to pass to the articles of this unqualified provision. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-07-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-867.ana.u22	We shall now proceed to the vote on the proposal not to proceed to the debate on the Rules of Procedure. SANTANGELO (M5S). We call for the vote to be taken by simultaneous ballot by electronic means. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I would like to point out the nominal vote by simultaneous ballot of the proposal not to move on to the examination of the articles, made by Senator Cappelletti. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). He asked the Minister for Relations with Parliament, Senator Finocchiaro. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-07-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-867.ana.u23	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, on behalf of the Government, authorised by the Council of Ministers, I put the question of confidence in the adoption, without amendments or additional articles, of the single article of bill No 2879, of the conversion of the Decree-Law of 25 June 2017, No 99, into the text approved by the House of Deputies.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-07-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-867.ana.u24	The Presidency notes that the question of confidence has been placed on the approval of the bill for the conversion of Decree-Law No 99, in the same text as that approved by the Chamber of Deputies. The Conference of Leaders is convened to organise the relevant debate. I therefore suspend the sitting. (The sitting was suspended at 10.02 p.m. and resumed at 10.16 a.m.)
ParlaMint-IT_2017-07-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-867.ana.u25	The Conference of the Leaders carried out the organization of work on the question of trust posed by the Government on the bill of conversion of the decree-law containing urgent provisions for the compulsory administrative liquidation of Banca Popolare di Vicenza SpA and Veneto Banca SpA, in the text approved by the Chamber of Deputies. For the discussion on confidence, one hour and twenty-five minutes were allocated, on the basis of specific requests from the Groups. They will follow the explanations of vote and call you.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-07-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-867.ana.u26	I declare open the debate on the question of trust. Senator Stefani is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-07-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-867.ana.u27	Madam President, we are faced with yet another decree-law on a very serious issue, which has created an economic disaster but, above all, very serious social hardships in Veneto. We are faced with a clearly unconstitutional decree-law, first of all because Article 3 has been violated, namely the principle of equality, since several shareholders and former shareholders have been treated in a discriminatory manner, on the basis of the company shares held. That to our examination is a clearly unconstitutional decree-law because it has also violated the principles of freedom of competition in that, as you can see, it is delivered in fact the monopoly on the credit of an entire Region, the Veneto - a strategic region for the national economy - to a single bank, that already had 800 branches on the territory, to which it adds almost 900 received practically as a gift from this Government to a symbolic figure, acquiring assets, know-how and certainly the knowledge of a wide territory. The story of Banca Popolare di Vicenza and Veneto Banca has profiles that leave room for perplexity, if you don't smoke, fogs. It was thought - someone said so, not in this House - that perhaps the fate of the popular banks was the result of the ignorance of a territory with respect to financial instruments such as these. Yet, we want to remember what Banca Popolare di Vicenza and Veneto Banca were: they represented a formidable power on the territory. They had an image that had been supported by professional associations, institutions: everyone recognized its meaning for Vicenza, for Treviso, but also throughout the rest of Veneto. They had an image recognized by the media but also by testimonials. It had been certified by control bodies and supported by prosecutors; we remember how proceedings have been filed against the management of Banca Popolare di Vicenza. Today we are faced with this result with the guilty contribution of the ECB (we must call into question all the artifices of this disaster). There are responsibilities of several levels, of all those who had to exercise the role of guarantor and have not done so: Banca d'Italia, Consob, internal supervisory bodies, external auditing companies. This decree-law clearly violates a principle of justice. As was said, Banca Popolare di Vicenza and Veneto Banca were very strong companies: they had relations not only with the whole world of savers but also with companies. We remember how the manager, especially in Vicenza, when he passed through the square saw the dogs bowing before him. The man was treated as a hero, the greatest symbol of the city of Vicenza. Now - it is yesterday's news - we are faced with notices of guarantee and conclusions of investigations for crimes such as the enhancement or interference in supervisory activities. We are talking about crimes that in the United States would lead to jail, while in Italy they are punished slightly. In this procedure and in the same measure under consideration, no one has ever made the slightest effort to establish a truly sense of justice and to identify and punish those responsible, not only for a social revenge and a condemnation, but also for obtaining refreshment and compensation in favour of those savers who have seen themselves deprived of everything because of dissentitious government policies, with the adoption of a series of measures that have resulted in the disaster of these two credit institutions, but also of the negligent activity, if not criminal of the leadership. We are now faced with a measure that denies justice. We remember, in fact, that judicial proceedings are being carried out by those who seek protection within the courts. There have been favorable judgments and - as a case may be - the decree-law intervenes right now, raising strong doubts, if not uncertainties about the continuation of these actions. In the end the shareholders, former members (we remember that they were partners) were chosen as sacrificial victims. They have first lost the savings of a life, the result of sacrifices and sacrifices, and - then - they have renounced the future, failing to support old age and even companies. In fact, failing all the apparatus represented by the credit institutions of Veneto, there is a lack of support for companies. It is good to remember the nature of the companies in Veneto, which often have less than 15 employees and are not capitalized. These companies have always resorted to credit. Therefore, we are now faced with situations in which trusts and trusts are lacking and no use is made of the agendas adopted in the Commission and the House of Members, since we know what these instruments are worth. We are faced with the risk of loss not only of jobs, but also of the confidence that companies have towards credit institutions. In some ways, some damage still has to mature. And what did the government decide to do? The Commission has chosen to save the powerful and has decided, arbitrarily, which categories of savers should be protected, condemning the others practically to civil death. Sovereigns were the untouchable and self-referential powers, to which the Government has proved to be subordinate and even under blackmail. This is the most serious part. If we think about the history of Banca Popolare di Vicenza and Veneto Banca, we must remember the measure that forced the popular banks to quote themselves on the stock exchange. This transformation immediately created the first situation of serious difficulty. Now, in hindsight, one wonders whether that decision has been determined by unawareness, overestimating forces, if not incompetence, or whether it has been tainted by an intentional or at least indirect malice, knowing what the consequences would have been. Therefore, a procedure has been repeated which ultimately led all those who intervened to hide the truth and prevent the establishment of responsibilities, abandoning to themselves a market, such as the very delicate one of credit, in which the criteria of transparency and truth did not prevail, without restoring confidence to savers. This is why the question arises as to what happened to all those alarms and exhibits that were presented in the prosecutor's office and why there has been no intervention and there has been a master management of credit institutions in conflict of interest also by the previous management. In conclusion, gentlemen, I would like to mention the words spoken to the House of Deputies by Members of the Northern League, in particular by my friend Busi. You are all workers, you savers, who believed in the popular banks of your territory, you who have made a life of sacrifices, giving yourselves little vacation and no luxury, you who have always worked, spared to have security, to have a small capital to help your children, you who have ruined families, who have fallen ill, you who have committed suicide for the despair of having lost all your savings, you who have put your companies, you people... [[The microphone is automatically switched off.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-07-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-867.ana.u28	Please finish.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-07-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-867.ana.u29	STEFANI (LN-Aut). You could have warned me before, ma'am. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I did. I begged her to finish. STEFANI (LN-Aut). Do not interrupt me, please, Mr President, because these are important things. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group and Senator De Pin]] You, workers and shareholders, who have lost jobs, a people...
ParlaMint-IT_2017-07-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-867.ana.u30	The rules we gave ourselves are also important, Senator Stefani.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-07-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-867.ana.u31	STEFANI (LN-Aut). ...a people cheated, robbed unjustly, because as the Marquis of the Cricket said, I am me and you are not... [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-07-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-867.ana.u32	She's registered to speak Senator Bottici. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-07-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-867.ana.u33	[[Senator Santini's comments.]] STEFANI (LN-Aut). Shut up! [[Senator Bencini's comments.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-07-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-867.ana.u34	Senator Santini, please. You too, Senator Dalla Zuanna.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-07-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-867.ana.u35	CANDIANI (LN-Aut). Shut up! PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator Candiani, please, Senator Bottici has the floor.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-07-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-867.ana.u36	Madam President, I am pleased to see that there is warmth, but in the meantime there is the desert on the benches of the government.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-07-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-867.ana.u37	Undersecretary Baretta is sitting at the desk of the Commissions.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-07-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-867.ana.u38	BOTTICS (M5S). I'm sorry, I didn't see him. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. But I would invite him to sit at the government desks. BOTTICS (M5S). We saw him. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. If necessary, it will be the rapporteur who will move if they need to consult. Mr Lezzi (M5S). No, now you have to listen to the Undersecretary. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I invite you to calm down. BOTTICS (M5S). We are here because you have asked for confidence, yet again, on the issue of banks. I invite you to go and ask the savers, those of the four banks, the savers who have lost their money, with the story of the Monte dei Paschi, and the savers of the Venetian banks. I would add that sooner or later another bank will come, because Carige is never spoken of, but all the shareholders of Carige are losing money on money; so, go and talk to them and ask them if they trust you and don't come and tell us that everything is fine, that with this measure we somehow resolved everything, because there are cases of savers who have the same title in their hands, that is, an obligation issued at the same time, but purchased in a different relationship, that is in direct relationship with the issuer, and therefore by the popular bank or the Veneto Bank, or on the secondary market. I take the example of Banca Nuova, which is a subsidiary of Banca Popolare di Vicenza. Those who bought from Banca Nuova will not receive anything because 80% compensation is only for the direct relationship. Then, go to these buyers and ask if they have confidence, because they trusted what the bank institution was. And we ate it; indeed, you ate this trust. What, however, about shareholders who will not receive anything, because they are completely out of all reimbursement of the damage, indeed, of the scam suffered? There are, in fact, citizens, taxpayers (because they pay taxes and are Italian citizens, and not only), who went to the bank to ask for a mortgage to buy the first house and to put on a family; or, elderly people who helped their children in difficulty. And the bank said to them: I give you more money, but you buy the shares. If you don't buy the shares, I won't give you the mortgage. What about the people they did? They didn't accept? It was the bank, and then they trusted each other. So these subjects accepted this exchange of favors: I give you the mortgage and you buy me the shares. What's going on today? That the subjects involved have lost the value of the shares and, therefore, all the savings that, at times, corresponded to the sweat of a life. They lost their jobs, and so, as they say, they lost goats and cabbages, because they lost their shares and risk losing their homes. Go to them and ask if they trust you: I don't believe. There are people today forced to change the ISEE model to be able to access state facilities and public support. Does that seem normal to you? Does it seem normal for a citizen who trusted the bank, the institution, the state to invest and then lose everything? I don't. Go there and ask if they trust you. What about those entrepreneurs who had obtained trust and funding from both the two Venetian banks and Banca Intesa? Let us realize, in fact, that those who are entrepreneurs today and try to float and survive in this country need more banks. With the Basel criteria, in fact, they sometimes manage to pass on a minimum amount of trust or funding to each bank. But now you have granted Banca Intesa the whole market, going against the rules of competition. Let us realize that even there, in fact, in the passage that you carry out with this decree, you go in derogation from the rules of competition in a sector fundamental to the country. The banking system is fundamental for all countries, but you don't care. So, give that bank this nice gift, not thinking about the consequences. What's going on? Despite the fact that Senator Puppato reassures us in the Commission that, however, there have already been agreements and comparisons with associations, there are entrepreneurs who are today called by Banca Intesa to ask for the renegotiation of the trusts and also of the financing. I remind you that you have changed the rules on guarantees granted to mortgages and banks. You have removed the judicial procedures, so today an entrepreneur who is called back - and do not say that the entrepreneur and the bank have the same contractual power, because it is a "galactic ball" - [[Applause from the M5S Group]] you are forced to accept and therefore to retract the financing by granting your own home, your own company, your own shed with the risk of losing it instantly because you have decreased the installments that may not be paid with the direct passage of the guarantee. Since there are still 60 billion net of deteriorated loans on which the Italian assets made by houses and businesses insist, I hope that the commitment made in the Commission on an analysis of a different way of managing the NPLs (Non-Performing Loans) will be continued. The Government, in some way, has also undertaken to seek a solution. In fact, I would never want the Italian heritage to go into the hands of foreign funds that look forward to putting their hands on these NPLs because they contain a part of our wealth. Instead of selling off the bad loans, we should be able to do a retraining job, restarting the economy that is firm. If there is no job, in fact, no one buys real estate, because no one has the money. Then I must try to create a virtuous circle. We have abandoned buildings, destroyed, but they are part of the guarantees. Let's restart the economy, let's participate in the redevelopment also those debtors who can no longer pay the masons, planters and all those who can carry out a redevelopment service of the buildings. Let's make a good fund. Let's get the economy back on track. The system is located. We don't sell anymore. We sold too much, you sold us out. Before you sold us to European standards and only today do you realize that the Basel legislation and the BRR directive (i.e. the bail-in) is wrong, but you approved it. You approved it, and you didn't realize how the bank's assets were made up. But you never thought about it! We have told you that the other states have made an intervention before the bail-in comes into force because they are not stupid, while we have fallen; indeed, you have fallen with all the shoes and now the new legislation will be the same because the fund to protect deposits, the one at European level, will start only when they have splashed us, I can assure you, because the others organize themselves. It is we in Italy who are unable to go and talk to others and explain how our social fabric is composed. We did not do the battle; indeed, you did not do the battle on the calibration of market risk and financial risk. Today you are talking about the division between commercial banks and financial banks. Only today: we've been telling you this for four years. You must wake up. You're always late. How do you trust a government and a sleeping majority, they're enslaved, and they can't see beyond their noses? When we tell you what the outside country is, it's because we've lived it and we keep living it. It's because our friends have difficulties at work; my friends take 1,000 euros a month, if that's okay, because they're lucky and because they make a lot of decks. I don't know how many friends you guys have doing metalworkers. I'd like to meet them, because you go to all the clubs and clubs and you're all cool. Make struts for circles and don't think about others. I really invite you to live differently. Come with us, let's go among ordinary people. We eat among ordinary people. We go shopping with ordinary people, and then maybe we can reason a little bit. It seems to me that you really do not realize what is happening to the country. Taking away the savings from those who have sweated a life and come to take it away is a huge crime. I feel this responsibility on me; I don't know if you feel it, but I feel it. Yesterday we were talking about the agendas and it was said that the majority and the government are made up of serious people and if they have accepted agendas, they will continue to carry out the commitments. I hope and expect it, because I was born on the day of St. Thomas and therefore I always wait to see the results, but I also expect you to start from the protection of savers, going to compensate all the bondholders and the swindled shareholders and that immediately the norm is made to increase the penalties for those who have caused a damage and not only to the saver, but to the whole nation, therefore it must be punished more. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Please conclude, Senator Bottici. BOTTICS (M5S). I also hope that you will abandon the idea of attenuating those administrators who have requested the intervention of the State, thus putting in place actions that I do not know if they are legal or are configurable as crimes, but when you seek mitigating for those acts, a little 'fear comes to me. So, we really don't have any faith in you, and I don't think the country trusts you either. I just hope that you will at least keep the commitments on the agenda. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-07-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-867.ana.u39	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-07-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-867.ana.u40	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-07-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-867.ana.u41	Mr Capelletti (M5S). Madam President, I would like to point out to you that at the Conference of the Leaders, the Five Star Movement, in total, was allocated sixty minutes for the debate on trust and these were not distributed in such a way as to exhaust them all. I would therefore ask you, if possible, to have a minimum of tolerance and to let colleagues finish, given the availability of the time granted to the Group. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-07-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-867.ana.u42	Senator Cappelletti, among the members of his Group were divided exactly sixty minutes. So I agree with this breakdown, because the sum of the minutes allocated to individual subscribers is exactly sixty minutes. When I invite the senators to conclude, I simply do so so that the sum of the speeches is within the total allocated to the Group by the Conference of Leaders. I would never allow myself to cut the time allocated: Senator Lezzi now has fifteen minutes, Senator Martelli will have twenty minutes and Senator Serra will have five minutes. Tolerance is there, because from the moment time runs out I generally allow an extra minute.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-07-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-867.ana.u43	That is exactly the meaning of my speech. It is not polemic, but it is aimed at asking for a little tolerance for those who intervene. It will mean that we will reduce the time available for subsequent interventions.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-07-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-867.ana.u44	I am calling to warn the speaker, who will be able to regulate himself, knowing that from that moment on he must start at the end of the speech. So I do not take the word off. Even with Senator Stefani I did the same, but maybe she didn't hear me because she was talking. It is clear that if everyone speaks more about the time available, then those who intervene last find themselves in difficulty. Senator Lezzi is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-07-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-867.ana.u45	Madam President, there is a lot to be said about this banking business. At the beginning of this legislature, when the Letta Government launched this series of gifts to the banks, we clearly intuited that there was a certain connivance of the Democratic Party with the banking system. Then there was a lot of writing about the government's inability. There was Padoan and there was Prime Minister Matteo Renzi, who was pontificating on the security of the banking system and invited the citizens to stay calm, because everything was fine. I do not think it was an inability, but I am sure that there has been a previous agreement on the issue of the Venetian popular banks, very old, that has brought the banks into a situation of full emergency just to be able to give them to Banca Intesa. There is no other explanation and really the prosecutor should deepen the links between the Democratic Party and Banca Intesa, because they are repeated over the years. I see Senator Santini - who is Venetian and clearly must defend his own electoral basin - take it out on the League and invite Zaia to take responsibility. We could also say that Puppato gave honorary citizenship to Zonin... [[Senator Puppato's comments.]] I mean, everyone's here. You're all in this! But the Democratic Party has a huge fault in all of this! [[Comments from the PD Group]] It's no use pointing me out. Don't scare me. Get out! Don't smile Smurfy, because he's guilty and he should go look people in the face! You should go look into the eyes of the people I spoke to yesterday, who had tears in their eyes, because they lost everything...
ParlaMint-IT_2017-07-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-867.ana.u46	Senator Lezzi.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-07-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-867.ana.u47	Mr Lezzi (M5S). I invite Senator Santini... president. Senator Lezzi, do not address individual senators, but the presidency. [[Comments of Senator Taverna]] Senator Taverna, Senator Lezzi doesn't need any help. Mr Lezzi (M5S). I invite Senator Santini and Senator Puppato to go and talk to their Corregionals who have tears in their eyes [[Comments of Senator Puppato]] Because the 90-year-old father lost everything! Don't laugh Puppato, because he's irresponsible. That's meanness! Laughing in front of this means just being mean. Look, gentlemen, I know one thing... [[Comments of Senators Puppato and Zanoni.]] Shut up! Shut up! PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator Puppato, don't accept provocation, it's not a dialogue. Mr Lezzi (M5S). I can talk! [[Senator Puppato's comments. Recalls of the Presidency.]] Shut up, it's my turn! You can talk at the end of the session! [[Repented comments from Senators Puppato and Mattesini. Recalls of the Presidency.]] Shut up! PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator Lezzi, it is the presidency that can tell the senators to shut up. Mr Lezzi (M5S). Tell him! PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I've already told you, so you continue your speech. Mr Lezzi (M5S). What I know, having listened to the associations of the swindled people, is that these people will not even be refreshed, and this because of the Democratic Party, Senator Puppato and Senator Santini, who, while knowing the whole situation, have decided to surrender parliamentary sovereignty. [[Live comments from Senator Puppato.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-07-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-867.ana.u48	Senator Puppato, if you want you can register to speak.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-07-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-867.ana.u49	Mr Lezzi (M5S). They decided knowingly and consciously to surrender parliamentary sovereignty to Banca Intesa. When this decree-law was issued, Banca Intesa made a press release saying that it should not be touched, otherwise it skipped the agreement. This is a very serious violation of Parliament's prerogatives. It's something extraordinarily serious, and I'm surprised no one's mentioned it. There is a bank that enters Parliament and orders the MPs of the Democratic Party to bow to its will. ZANONI (PD). President! Mr Lezzi (M5S). And the government, among other things, almost thanks Banca Intesa and orders the bent MPs of the Democratic Party to continue to cheat their co-regionals! ZANONI (PD). I assure you we are not bent: calm! Mr Lezzi (M5S). You, Senator Zanoni, are bent to Banca Intesa. [[Protests of the Senators Warriors Paleotti, Mattesini, Puppato, Santini and Zanoni]] ZANONI (PD). We're not bent! PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator Lezzi, respect individual senators. Mr Lezzi (M5S). They're the ones who started it. SANTINI (PD). President, that is not possible! PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. You continue your speech on the subject and don't insult individual senators. SANTINI (PD). You have to stop her. Mr Lezzi (M5S). The vexation, the virtue of the Democratic Party... Please, Senator Santini. Senator Lezzi, don't insult individual senators. Mr Lezzi (M5S). I'm not insulting. [[Comments of Senator Bencini]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-07-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-867.ana.u50	This is not the place to insult individual senators.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-07-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-867.ana.u51	Mr Lezzi (M5S). I know with this decree... [[Comments of Senator Bencini]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-07-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-867.ana.u52	Senator Bencini, be quiet and allow Senator Lezzi to perform the surgery, if that's correct.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-07-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-867.ana.u53	Mr Lezzi (M5S). I know the insult is the 17 billion new debt borne by all Italians for the connivance that exists with the banks. That's the insult! The insult is the millions of poor who have no answer! ZANONI (PD). There is no connivance! President, you must interrupt. Mr Lezzi (M5S). Don't talk to me about systemic risk, because then it was done as done with the Mount of the Paschi of Siena: the State and taxpayers take out money and, as is reasonable, enter the bank. You don't leave it to Banca Intesa! I want to know why the Democratic Party is so bent on Banca Intesa. It is not normal what you are doing: give 17 billion and give three years of time to give back the rotten fruit again to the Italians! [[Comments of Senator Zanoni]] Do you also have the courage to raise your head? Go to the squares and talk to the citizens and customers of Banca Etruria, your Undersecretary for the Presidency of the Council, of Boschi.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-07-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-867.ana.u54	Speak to the Presidency, not to other benches in this House.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-07-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-867.ana.u55	Mr Lezzi (M5S). I am shocked because I see that the MPs of the Democratic Party do not have a minimum of dignity and do not wonder what they are doing. PUPPATE (PD). Again? [[Comments of Senator Santini]] Mr Lezzi (M5S). Even the Senators of the Budget Committee who are there to do... [[Lively comments by Senators Puppato and Santini]] Again? I can do that. [[Live comments in protest of Senators Puppato and Santini. Remembrances of the Presidency]] SANTANGELO (M5S). President, you must call them back! PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. How many times should I call you back, Senator Santangelo? Mr Lezzi (M5S). The truth hurts the senators of Vicenza and Veneto. They tell their co-regionals that they snatched 17 billion of them, that they snatched new public debt, that there are thousands of savers cheated thanks to you! [[Live comments from Senator Bencini]] Shut up, Bencini! [[Protests of Senators Bencini, Puppato, Santini and Zanoni. Lively comments between Senators Bencini and Lezzi.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-07-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-867.ana.u56	Senator Lezzi, I don't allow you to insult people.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-07-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-867.ana.u57	Mr Bencini (Misto-Idv). Take your word off. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator Bencini, you can't insult Groups and people. If you feel that you can do so through judicial means and not by intervening in this House. [[Comments of Senator Bencini]] Mr Lezzi (M5S). Shut up, go give the money back! PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senators Lezzi and Tavern. I'll call Senator Lezzi! You're insulting individual senators. [[Comments of Senator Bencini]] Senator Bencini, shut up! Mr Lezzi (M5S). One who promises to return the money and keeps it, what do you want me to do in front of me? He doesn't have the strength to speak because, when I tell the truth, you all get up! That's the truth. It eats you! PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. What's the truth? No one has the truth. Senator Lezzi, do not provoke individual senators and parliamentary groups. Keep to the substance of the matter and the provision. Mr Lezzi (M5S). That is the merit of the matter. PUPPATE (PD). It's not at all. You don't know what you're talking about! PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator Puppato, I invite you to be quiet. Mr Lezzi (M5S). I invite Senator Puppato to take a walk in the square in Veneto! PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I urge Senator Lezzi not to point out the individual senators and members of this House who deserve respect. Mr Lezzi (M5S). Maybe the walk also takes place among the Italians who raise taxes, inflict cuts on health care, school, research, innovation and give 17 billion to Veneto Bank. I want to know if these will then give money to families and businesses, instead of your friends [[Applause from the M5S Group]] The problem is this, that is, systemic risk. Banks don't do their jobs. Even Zonin gave himself 41 million euros. What are you saving? Why didn't they race? I bought the bank for a euro. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] The savers bought it. They bought the Bottici, Cappelletti; we bought it. Why them? Something's wrong. Something's wrong, it smells like rottenness, connivance, conspiracy to commit crime! That's the truth! [[Protests from the PD Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-07-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-867.ana.u58	Speak to the Presidency when you speak and not to other areas of the House.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-07-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-867.ana.u59	Mr Lezzi (M5S). We're talking about 17 billion gifts. This is a scandal of enormous proportions, which you will pay for. This is the Head of the Democratic Party, other than the vaccines for the 5 Star Movement! You hanged the Democratic Party on the banks. You have to go home! You're connected to this country's rotten system! [[Applause from the M5S Group]] You to small businesses, artisans... [[Protests from the PD Group. Exchange of lively comments between Senator Santangelo and Senator Mauro Maria Marino]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-07-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-867.ana.u60	Senator Lezzi, I repeat that you should address the Presidency and not the Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-07-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-867.ana.u61	Mr Lezzi (M5S). You must have the courage to go back to the citizens and ask for the vote after you have done this umpteenth scam. And laugh. I'd like everyone to see you laughing songs. Smile and then make accountants in the Budget Committee and come and ask me for financial cover for citizenship income! [[Protests from the PD Group]] But how dare you? [[Applause from the M5S Group]] SANTINI (PD). That's not possible! (Senator Serra takes pictures in the Chamber.) MALAN (FI-PdL XVII). The senator next to Senator Lezzi is filming. Sangalli (PD). This is a show! Mr Lezzi (M5S). Madam President, I am very pleased to see that I have perhaps called for the dignity of the Democratic Party. Maybe they'll go home with the trolley and maybe they won't vote. In the meantime, I end my speech with the satisfaction of soliciting anger, because when people are told the truth... PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator Serra, you can't take Senator Lezzi back, you can't film her in the Chamber. So please turn your phone down. I beg Senator Bottici to intervene. [[Protests from the M5S Group.]] SANTANGELO (M5S). I'll take it. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. There are rules that must be respected here and outside. Mr Lezzi (M5S). What rules? MORONESE (M5S). We respect the citizens! PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator Lezzi, finish your speech or I'll take your word for it. Mr Lezzi (M5S). I conclude my speech by expressing my clear satisfaction at the anger that, in the face of the truth, I arouse in the Democratic Party and I hope that the citizens will remember this trap forever, because it is a great scam ordained by the Democratic Party, including the Senators of Veneto who have cheated their co-regionals. This is the sacred truth. Gentlemen, let's stick to the rules. [[Senator Puppato points out that she wants to intervene.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-07-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-867.ana.u62	Senator, your time is up.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-07-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-867.ana.u63	Mr Lezzi (M5S). Personal action is taken at the end of the sitting. Senator Puppato can also take a shower with cold water. [[Applause from the M5S Group. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-07-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-867.ana.u64	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-07-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-867.ana.u65	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-07-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-867.ana.u66	[[Senator Puppato points out that she wants to intervene.]] Senator Puppato, personal intervention was made at the end of the session. BONFRISCO (FL (Id-PL, PLI)). Madam President, I am a member of this House of the opposition and, as I have said several times, I consider the decree-law to be wrong in many respects, but it is absolutely necessary, even with its mistakes, to allow a system to see the doors reopened on Monday morning. Otherwise, that Monday morning, all the branches of the two Venetian banks that were the subject of the intervention would have been closed. I'm thinking about those savers, shareholders, bondholders... president. Senator Bonfrisco, your group doesn't have any more minutes. BONFRISCO (FL (Id-PL, PLI)). Thank you, Madam President, for reminding me of this and I am sorry that the Groups do not have the opportunity, of course, for a decision that has already been taken above my possibilities, to be able to clarify simply that in this House all the senators, especially those of the Finance Commission, have tried - and I believe that they have managed - to do serious and responsible work, within the limits and under the conditions of this decree-law. Members of the 5 Star Movement Group in the Finance Committee have carried out their responsible action and, together with all of us and everyone else, have tried to find, together with the Government, possible solutions, within the limits of this decree-law. In conclusion, Madam President, I do not think it is two minutes of intervention that will change the order of business of this House. What is important is that, in the face of the tragedy of a territory, we have the responsibility to know the situation, because only by knowing the situation can we evaluate and judge. I remember 40 years of development in that territory... president. Please conclude. It is an intervention on the order of business. BONFRISCO (FL (Id-PL, PLI)). Yes, of course, Madam President, thank you. I said that forty years of development of that territory were accompanied by a widespread and competitive credit between large banks, small banks and banks of the territory. We, too, in the difference between the roles of majority and opposition, between those who assume the responsibility to govern and those who assume the responsibility of the opposition, must ensure that this House does not arouse the anger that we all have. [[Applause from the ALA-SCCLP Group and the Senators Mattesini and Puppato]] And we know the situation, for those who brought those banks in those conditions, those who have not monitored and those who have tried to find solutions, right or wrong that they are... [[Comments from the M5S Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-07-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-867.ana.u67	Senator Bonfrisco, I can't open a discussion right now. I take note of your statement; this is a responsibility of all.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-07-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-867.ana.u68	BONFRISCO (FL (Id-PL, PLI)). On the order of business, I would ask you to ensure that the debate can be held peacefully in this House. [[Applause from Senators Barani and Pagnoncelli.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-07-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-867.ana.u69	He's right. Of course, the Presidency does everything it can, but it is a collective responsibility that of how we are in this House. He's enlisted to speak Senator Martelli. You have the right to do so. I hope that Senator Martelli will accept Senator Bonfrisco's call for mutual respect in this House and in this House, because we are in the Senate of the Republic.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-07-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-867.ana.u70	Madam President, I do not guarantee anything. I would like to resume the speech I had interrupted yesterday. [[Comments of Senator Maturani]] Shall we start like this? PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator Maturani, please allow Senator Martelli to speak. If you like, Senator Maturani, I'll leave you the microphone for 20 minutes and talk to you. Do we want to do this? [[Comments of Senator Maturani]] Montevecchi (M5S). He just started talking. What do you want? PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator Maturani, we're in general discussion. No action can be taken on the order of business to react to the substance of the questions raised. Senator Martelli, continue your intervention, please. MARTELLI (M5S). Maybe I'll just start it. Let me take a moment of what I began to say yesterday, because it needs to be clarified for a moment. Let us remember this once again: 19,27 billion, because the famous 1.9 billion tax credits that pass and transfer to Banca Intesa continue to forget them. If for you 1,9 billion are few, then do one thing: give it to me here and I'll manage it myself. That said, there was no 500 million (half a billion) of real estate that was transferred to Banca Intesa; no one talks about this either. And it translates with a few exceptions, therefore with legislation made on purpose, different from that for the ordinary citizen. In particular, when a citizen buys a house, there must be an energy performance certificate; there will be no need for it here. There must be a certificate of urban destination; there will be no need for it here. If there is an abuse, the property is still transferable. When a citizen buys, he has to pay VAT and the registration fee. Banca Intesa will pay VAT? No. Will you pay a registration fee? He will pay a lump sum: 200 euros per real estate unit. Not even a local zero pays 200 euros! This is another nice gift. So it's 500 million. Not to mention the famous artistic heritage on which there is a great question mark. Having said that, there is a very slight imbalance between EUR 19,027 million - you can also take out EUR 1.9 billion and become EUR 17,127 million, so it doesn't make much difference - and EUR 10,776 million of which the State will be the creditor at the SGA. At my house, there is no appeal of about 7 billion euros; even assuming that the State was able to value the NPLs 100%, there are always 7 billion missing, which have put all Italian citizens. I repeat, EUR 7 billion. Beware because, since SGA does not have a banking license, it does not have the power to renegotiate with the debtor, therefore it cannot propose a different plan of return: or everything or nothing; therefore there is the risk that the valorization is down. Be careful because the price of the NPLs (Non-performing loans), at market values, is very low: they were sold even to 20 percent (there was the famous deevaluation of Unicredit that had reduced them to 23 percent). Of these 10 billion euros, we risk bringing home 2.5 billion euros, so the loss for the community rises to 14 billion euros. Yet you have done everything you can to talk about something else in recent weeks on national newspapers and television. I repeat, EUR 14 billion in debt. Let's move on. Now I'd like to ask you a few questions, but first I want to say something. I find the criminalization of the saver from you shameful. When Rosato gets up and says that if you buy a subordinate obligation that makes 11 percent is a damn speculator to me they spin strongly like a helicopter. I'll tell you why: first, you don't have to mess up the yield with the coupon. I went to look at the ISIN code: they had a nominal coupon of 3.5%; if there was a higher yield, it was only because the market quotation was 85 cents on the nominal. I wonder, then, why not properly pursue directors and bank directors who, in front of a person who comes to buy something that pays 15% compared to nominal, don't tell them: Are you crazy? If at this time it serves 15%, there is a high risk of it. Where do you find the money that makes 11 percent now in Italy? And yet everything was fine. In your opinion, this is not a scam: according to you, it's the idiot saver who doesn't know what he's doing. I was there at the duffel bag when people arrived - it was 1999 - and they said: There are fantastic Mexican bonds that make 14 percent. And the answer was: If they make 14 percent it's because it's dynamite. Do you really want to buy this stuff? Luckily, someone told him. Well, in this case no one has told you and that's okay; this is the thing that really makes me turn: the criminalization of the saver. Because what goes to buy a bond thinks to buy something safe, it is not the shareholder; but also on the shareholder a colossal scam has been created. Let's give a hint to the government, since it seems that we only know how to criticize. There's a problem with unlisted banks. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] The allocation of the equity value is established by the Board of Directors at the end of the year; on what grounds? Here too there is a colossal question mark. But then, either you set a different criterion by law attached to the nominal value, or we have a problem. But it's been done worse. In silence, over the years, banks have been allowed to zero the nominal value: behind the sheet of paper of the action there is no more nominal value (for example, one, two, three euros); there is nothing left. It means that the shares - according to the same banks that did this operation - are rag paper, okay? You didn't stop it. Moreover, quoted shares are by definition non-liquid. Even there is the market maker: the same bank has the right to buy the shares, so it is a twice rigged market. Yet I have not heard a word about the regulation of all this; not a word. Let's move on with this little game of putting money in the banks. Three situations, three different ways of acting. Why? At the Monte dei Paschi in Siena an injection of capital was made with the State that becomes 70 percent shareholder and will be the voyeur. The state is already a voyeur in the companies it controls; let's imagine in this case! In this case, however, it would have been time to say: Wait a minute, instead of giving you 3.7 billion plus 1.2 billion, I become a shareholder. Do you know why it wasn't done? Ask yourself that question. I answer: because in this way the State would become the third largest shareholder of Intesa, after the Compagnia Sanpaolo, because it would have had 7.5 percent. It had to be said: "Dear Intesa Bank, you make a capital increase dedicated to me; I buy the shares, so I inject liquidity and make a capital strengthening, but I am shareholder." But Messina, of course, what he said: "Imagine if I make the state put its nose in my accounts and my things!" So no, we don't. Instead, it would have been an opportunity to do for once what a nation needs. You see, here every once in a while, we also need a basic review looking at the story of what the banks did. In history it happened that in 1933 a law called Glass-Steagall Act was passed in the United States because after the 1929 catastrophes they thought to do so: on the one hand the banks declared wanting to make money with money, on the other the ones making retail credit. Why? Because if you want to make money with money you risk more and the credit bank doesn't have to mix with these. Then Clinton arrived from 1992 to 2000, he deleted that law and we found another speculative bubble in 1999-2000, with regurgitation in 2007. So, since 1933 it has been understood that those types of banks should be separated. Are we still talking about this? The problem is that we just talk here, but we have to do it! Since a law has already been made in the past, and then deleted, it can be copied. I was saying, let's review the banking system, because banks do one thing: they make money with money and they have to offer a higher yield than the world's GDP growth rate. So, that means they create more money than the real value of assets. In this situation, which is called the Ponzi scheme (we invented it more than a century ago, with an Italian immigrant named Charles Ponzi) someone has to fail sooner or later. In this system banks will always fail, because they are forced to do something that is impossible, that is, to create more money than exists. In this type of situation one must then make a moment of peace with the brain. Given that the provision of credit is a matter of national interest and that making a financial income is a private interest, these things must be separated. Credit should only be guaranteed by someone who does not have the conflict of interest to make money pay more than money can make. This has been the case in many parts; in fact, in some developed nations credit is also paid directly by a State subsidiary. This was the opportunity to do so, because we had a large wealth of assets available to the Venetian banks; it was not the lung with bacilli of the MPS goddess that was decorate for decades. They had assets. But why was this heritage given to Banca Intesa? I'll tell you why. It is another story that in the context of banking history is prehistoric, has ultra twenty-five roots. This is the famous battle for the control of the North-East, as a network of enterprises (and thus of financing for companies) and savings. Nobody remembers the famous battle for the Bank Rolo; does anyone remember it? The merger of the Banca del Friuli into Credito Romagnolo was called Rolo Banca 1473: a huge battle between what was then not called Unicredit and what was then not called Intesa, Sanpaolo IMI etc. Well, he won Unicredit. Perhaps, then, it has remained an open game, because For over twenty years, Intesa has been trying to put her legs on that side! [[Applause from the M5S Group]] The most shameful thing is that this is done in this way, especially by way of derogation from the rules which do not allow the abuse of a dominant position, because one of the 31 derogations contained in this decree and mentioned yesterday by my colleague Laura Bottici is this: the abuse of a dominant position this time does not apply. As Titus Livius said: "Saldo is the State in which one willingly obeys." But how can citizens willingly obey here when they see that the rules apply only to someone and not to someone else? [[Applause from the M5S Group]] You did something paradoxical: when the citizen goes to the bank to ask for money you have to give more guarantees than the money he asks for; when the bank asks the citizen, intermediated by the state, gets them without guarantees. We've become the ones who don't make money from the banks but they finance the banks. This can't work. As I said, with regard to securing credit, this thing had already been discussed "only" about ten years ago by the US Federal Reserve when there was the problem of injecting money into the economy, and then go with the Troubled assets relief program (TARP) and other interventions to give money to banks, decoctions thanks to this system of non-separation. The conclusion that there was was the joke that Mr. Ben Bernanke, who was president of the Federal Reserve at the time, the only thing he could do was load helicopters with money and distribute them to people because it was the only way people would spend them. Well, once again, "of history who cares": we have forgotten it and we are still back to say the maximal idiocy that to get money to businesses and citizens we pass through banks. But the reason is logical. In this way, banks can arbitrate and, therefore, make you pay the money as much as they want. You are told that the European Central Bank's nominal refinancing rate is that, but then the spread is applied. Do you have to apply it to me? I'll take the country risk? We don't understand each other. The banks, however, say this. This is also another thing that we let do (or rather, that let you do, because we don't let anything do). Madam President, I have a few notes and I go on speaking with my arms. We were talking about saving banking systems. At some point, what's the problem? What is the saver? It is the collection: how much the saver gives to the bank because forced, as it cannot pay in cash. I remember, in fact, that many operations have to be done in electronic mode. Therefore, collection is mandatory. Yeah, the fact that you're giving money to the bank, but legally it's not yours makes a little itch and irritation like it used to be, but it's okay. However, this is a different saver, which is simply using the bank as a hoarding of its own. This saver is different from the one who buys an action. Those who want action have a higher performance expectation and therefore face a different degree of risk. Same as anyone who wants a bond. So, let's separate the protections of these two individuals. There is an Interbank Deposit Protection Fund. Evidently, that's not enough. The banking system must put more money on the plate, perhaps by having a third party manage it, but it must put more on the table. Otherwise, in this way we will always have the noose around our necks, which has rightly been lifted by the President of the Commission, Finance and Treasury, who says: "One saves him, the other does not: make peace with the brain." Make peace with your brain with this third way: strengthen the interbank deposit protection fund. As far as the European Commission's interbank protection fund is concerned, this is wrong. Each territory has a banking system that is the son of the territory itself and, therefore, not everything can be managed in the same way. The concept of the European Union must not be to massify all things, because Europe's fortune has been diversity. I do not say that I have arrived now, but it is from tons of historical studies: if Europe has done so, it is because it was divided into so many small pieces. Of course, this was geopolitically risky, because we risked invasions, but fundamentally diversity has always been a virtue. We, on the other hand, pursue massification. Therefore, we must say no to the European Unified Deposit Protection Fund, not least because we are the weak part at the moment. In fact, dear Germany comes to tell us that there is "corruzzzazione," with four hundred, but it does not look inside its own house. The unified cartel to rig missions was invented by the Germans, who do things big. First they saved their banks and then told the others they couldn't do it with theirs. All this happened in the silence of our governments, who said nothing. Now the Germans tell us that we must act in accordance with certain rules. They massacred Cyprus with a devastating bail-in. That is another thing that we must say no: we must also say no to the new Basel 4. Another thing we need to get our hands on is the leverage that banks operate with. No one will remember this, but the Long term capital management (LTCL) is a speculative fund formed in 1994, which went to ramengo in 1998 because with 4 billion capital it had a leverage effect that brought it to 1,200 billion dollars of assets. There was an emergency meeting of the Federal Reserve and it was decided to inject capital and close positions. This did not teach anything. It's the leverage effect that creates these positions right now. Another issue to be highlighted is the transparency of bank balance sheets. I tried to read the balance sheet of the Monte dei Paschi di Siena when it still did, but it doesn't do any good: it's a package of beautiful coated paper, but where the important things are not specified. For example, derivatives positions are not specified and you don't understand what leverage they operate with. I don't see anything going on here either, and I can't hear the government talking to me about these things. The government comes to Parliament to say that Banca Intesa has accepted, not to save the banks, but to take over part of them. In fact, that banks have been saved is a big ball like a dirigible: banks have been deprived of banking license, declared insolvent, but not bankrupt, and dismembered. That is what has been done. Again, you have been towed by the European Central Bank, bent on the floor (when you are on the floor you see only the earth and nothing else). The European Central Bank first said that there was no problem - or almost - then that the banks had failed and finally found the middle way (but this time in the middle there was not virtue, but vice), saying that the banks were probably insolvent: so settle down. Is this the way a sovereign state behaves towards its banking system? It's not a good way. Having still time available, I insist that the history of bank bailouts tells us invariably what is the best way, if you want to put money in the banks: you put the money and the bank becomes your own, or you let it go. See Dexia cases in Belgium, ABN Amro in the Netherlands, Banco Santander Central Hispano or those of Swedish, Icelandic and American banks or insurance banks such as American International or Citygroup. The state put the money in, and then took over, and then I cashed in any capital gains. I say "possible" because in the United States there have been (about 40 billion); Royal Bank of Scotland is still a bump, but it had 200 billion problems and, therefore, it will obviously take time to recover. However, the state must clarify what it wants to do and above all must clarify before all citizens, once and for all, that the credit must not be intermediated, it must not be a taboo to have a state bank and a state that manages the credit directly. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] Leaving the credit in the hands of someone who is in clear conflict of interest is a problem and the banks are in sharp conflict of interest: of the money that is deposited nothing is done, for them it is a liability and not an activity and, as such, it must be put to good use. I have not heard half a word about this either, but I have heard a lot of nonsense about the protection of savers and the maintenance of the banking system or the big to fail too. You have pursued laws - slavery to the European Union - on the concept of the concentration of the banking system, because the concept of banks of systemic interest was born, but the paradigm must be reversed: they are banks of systemic risk. Concentration creates the problem, while the risk must be divided between so many things and, if the banks do, why not think that it could be a healthy thing? The bigger a bank is, the more problems it can create (Unicredit has 800 billion assets and means it can create 800 billion problems). Well, you do the opposite: you want to concentrate them, because popular banks have so many assets and go to cover the problems of non-popular banks. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]] At the time, I said that this would mess up, and it would get both banks involved in it, and this is happening on time: UBI Bank is set up as it is and Intesa needed 3.7 billion injections of capital for the same reason.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-07-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-867.ana.u71	Please come to the conclusion.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-07-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-867.ana.u72	MARTELLI (M5S). Is it possible that history never taught anything? But, above all, is it possible that every time you make the mistake the bill always pays for the citizens who stay out? [[Applause from the M5S Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-07-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-867.ana.u73	Senator Serra is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-07-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-867.ana.u74	Madam President, how can we trust this Government? For the forced liquidation of the Venetian banks you have zeroed tens of thousands of savers of the banks of Central Italy. With a nocturnal guillotine, you gave 7.5 billion of Bankitalia's treasury to private shareholders, i.e. always to banks. How can we trust you? You have put 17 billion on the table in a Council of Ministers which lasted just eighteen minutes. Basically, you played a billion a minute of our money and I repeat, ours! [[Applause from the M5S Group]] Result? Banca Intesa has chosen, piece by piece, the good part of the two Venetian institutions, which have disappeared from circulation. You bought movable and immovable property, you bought Thiene palace. But how can we trust you? You accepted the blackmail of Intesa, the first Italian bank, without injury. You have signed a contract with the great Italian finance and you have humiliated Parliament, forcing it to align with that contract without any room for manoeuvre. So far we have always accused Parliament of being a doormat of the Government and its decrees. But the truth is that you are complicit in the strong powers and you have made the Italian citizens the mat of the strong powers [[Applause from the M5S Group]] , just as Italy became the doormat of Europe, when Renzi sold us out, bending to accept to make Italy the port of Europe for all migrants in exchange for some electoral tip. Mr Albano (PD). That's enough! SERRA (M5S). And so, this decree-law passes without modification so as not to disturb the master. And it passes without even the improvements that you yourself would have wanted to bring, such as - for example - the enlargement of the audience of bondholders to compensate because, when the finance-master calls, the politics-major-complice responds promptly: "Yes, master." So immediately you give five billion to Intesa and another twelve billion guarantees are put at risk of a bad bank that has taken charge of the damaged claims of the Venetian banks to an arbitrary value. Shameful! Vote the immigration treaties, such as Dublin 2 and Dublin 3, and then say (only when you feel the breath on the neck of the 5 Star Movement) that need to be revised. Vote in favor of the wretched bail-in and then do everything you can to avoid it. You can then make only three hypotheses: either you are politically bipolar, or you are complicit when the worst crap goes under your nose or you are in bad faith and slaves of strong powers. No one, no citizen can yet trust you! [[Applause from the M5S Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-07-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-867.ana.u75	He's enlisted to speak Senator Barani. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-07-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-867.ana.u76	Madam President, I rise to make a political point on the request for a vote of confidence, which is precisely the subject of today's debate. The Government calls for confidence in a Parliament which we believe is - to quote a phrase from my colleague, Mr Serra - not bipolar, but pentapolar. It is a government with a variable majority and that is the point on which we want to make people think. On vaccines, the Government has a majority with Forza Italia; on justiceism it has a majority with the 5 Star Movement; on reforms it has a majority with us; on ius soli with the Italian Left Group; on banks it has a majority with the People's Area and the Südtiroler Volkspartei. But it's not a majority. We have heard that the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) will not vote for confidence. So President Gentiloni asks for confidence in the Upper House, the Senate, not having the majority and knowing he doesn't have it. In the First Republic this would have led him, in a silent way, to climb to the Hill and resign: here there can be no majorities so variable; one cannot, with boldness, come here to ask for trust without any improvement. I listened to Senator Martelli, who gave us economic lessons, but politics is the art of mediation. Otherwise, we would only put economists and specialists to rule. The art of mediation is the one that leads to make all the considerations and to evaluate all the variables and, therefore, to a solution, as was the case in the First Republic, when Italy was led to have a GDP of 5-6 per cent and to be the locomotor of Europe. The last consideration I make is that there are too many shadows on the decree banks. Of course Banca Intesa made a real deal. I can think of a big blow, a 1960 movie with Frank Sinatra, Dean Martin and Sammy Davis, Jr., talking about a big robbery and big businessmen. It seems to me that in this case the government has pursued the policy of protecting two Venetian banks. I have a young son, to whom I sometimes read Pinocchio's fairy tale. Well, it seems to me that the cat and the fox have asked Italian citizens to sow all the money. Senator Pagnoncelli, when in the past the citizen went to the bank to ask for 100,000 lire to buy an apartment that was worth 70,000, the bank gave him 100,000 lire, because 70,000 were for the apartment and 30,000 to take the shares. The stock, however, went to zero, while the debt remained a hundred. And that's where he wanted to cheat the citizen, just like in the 1960 movie I mentioned. It is the historical courses and resorts of Vichiana memory that are repeated. The Banco di Napoli taught 30 years ago. Campania has always been ahead of Veneto in this field. The final result is that only Banca Intesa has been favored - in the explanation of vote I will be more precise - with the complicity of CONSOB and Banca d'Italia. This Government does not have the authority, not having the majority, to raise the voice in Italy in front of entrepreneurs, Italian finance and in Europe. We believe, therefore, that the vote of confidence is already clearly a distrust of this Government. [[Applause from the ALA-SCCLP Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-07-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-867.ana.u77	I declare closed the debate on the question of trust posed by the Government.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-07-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-867.ana.u78	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-07-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-867.ana.u79	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-07-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-867.ana.u80	MOLINARI (Misto-Idv). Madam President, I am taking the floor for an explanation of vote on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats in order to confirm the vote necessarily in favour of the decree-law in question, for the reasons I set out yesterday in the general debate. Allow me, however, to make a few clarifications in the few minutes I have available, since there are more senators in this House today. The story of the two Venetian banks is of an unheard of gravity, but not new, both for the causes and for the effects, in the panorama of management of the territorial banks in Italy and does not differ - alas - from what happened not long ago to the Cassa di Risparmio di Calabria and Lucania of my home or to Bank 121 in my father's land, that is, in Puglia. Only those who did not want to see - the judiciary and political forces first and foremost who have always ruled that territory and used that power centre to seek consent - did not realize how directors and managers of the two Venetian banks have distributed money without the necessary guarantees or even against rules governing credit. How can the judiciary that operates in Veneto, in all these years in which the disaster occurred, not have carried out investigations, while it has kept dusting in the drawers the numerous complaints that for over a decade have advanced consumer associations such as ABUSDEF, on the so-called "kissed actions"? How can today, with a simplicity that they can only take on simple words, say that almost certainly crimes, which today are admitted to be criminals, will go on prescription because - usual excuse - they are under the staff? How is it possible that the League, which governs the Venetian Region and Municipalities since always, today harshly criticizes the decree-law when there is a whole story to tell about the interweaving between political forces, institutions and banks of that territory, beginning with that great scam that was Credinord? For Italy of Values today the Government assumes a great responsibility: that of saving the economy of a territory, the currentists who live of their own work and the small and medium-sized honest companies. However, the government also has the duty to strike immediately those "white collars" that have made themselves responsible for the economic damage to the country, from Monte dei Paschi di Siena to the Veneto, passing through Etruria, because in every territory there are involved political forces. In the United States, those responsible would have their assets blocked, pending final judgments; in Italy, on the other hand, they have already passed the goods to their children or to loan and quietly see them making purchases in via Montenapoleone. Let me give you one outlet: if this had happened in the South, we would be facing a further racist campaign against our people and our businesses. Here, instead, we remain silent, because everyone cares for his own parish and is not investigated, while for Italy of Values national unity is maintained if the law is applied equal for all, from Sicily to Tuscany, to Veneto. Today we vote for confidence in order to allow a territory such as Veneto to avoid the drama of failures, closures, jobs that jump, of accountants called to cover the debt of the banks. But even more strongly we ask the Government to act with extraordinary measures against those responsible by tightening sanctions and, above all, personal and asset prevention measures. All this must serve as an example and make national interest prevail, which must always function in the double sense from the North to the South and from the South to the North. [[Applause from Senator Bencini.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-07-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-867.ana.u81	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-07-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-867.ana.u82	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-07-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-867.ana.u83	BONFRISCO (FL (Id-PL, PLI)). Madam President, the current speech, incardinated in the decree-law to our examination that the House approved without amendment and that also the Senate is preparing to vote without any change, shows all the limits of a game in which - in my opinion - everyone will lose. I do not repeat the figures and figures which have already been comprehensively presented by all my colleagues who took part in the debate in the Commission. All I'm saying is that the savers - for whom the intervention was replicated, defined at the end of 2015, for the four banks and that many problems raised - and the 200,000 small shareholders, those we care about most, who were convinced to subscribe to the shares of the two banks as preparatory activities to the granting of a loan, pay the highest price. It also loses the State, which puts on the plate about 20 billion, between guarantees and interventions, and hopes to re-enter you do not know how much and does not even know in how long, probably with the only prospect of downloading to the public debt all the losses and the costs of this operation, in which to gain is only one subject. It will gain the one who has been in the best position and has been able to seize the extraordinary opportunity presented to him - for a series of errors, underestimations or in some cases of settings that I consider to be at the limit of bad faith by the European supervisory bodies - to be able to absorb a banking hub of system. If it had not been a system, it would not have been placed under the supervision of the ECB. However, when it was possible to activate the instruments that apply to the system banks, the ECB itself, which had included all the banks of the Italian territory (almost all the medium-sized banks) within its supervision (to differences of the German banks, which had instead remained excluded from supervision, not falling within the definition of banks of the system) when it served to recapitalize and support that process of difficulty, undoubtedly linked to the crisis, bad management and oversight omissions, then decided that those banks were no longer considered system. That is why we find ourselves having a single winner: the winner who benefits from specific assets and liabilities of the two banks, defined in a mysterious contract of sale cost a euro, and of the huge guarantees and public resources aimed also at solving the problem of the presumed and almost certain redundancies that will come to be created in his new organization, but that for his commitment he has demanded from the Government an absolute guarantee. And it is not only an economic guarantee: it is that of taking or leaving - as Banca Intesa said - that the Executive accepted, building a regulatory system to protect the whole operation - and do not tell me that it was written in three days - that it is beyond the limits of constitutionality and sometimes exceeds even those of common sense. These are rules on which no action can be taken, which enable the winner, namely Banca Intesa, to enjoy treatment and legal status above any other economic organization, above any other Italian citizen. It is also here to take or leave, as the Government says to Parliament, that in fact it is exonerated from its prerogatives - as has already been said - and from the possibility to shed light on a story that has not few dark sides, one for all: how is it possible that the liquidator is in continuity with the company being wound up? Another dark side: how is it possible that the Italian Government was joined, evidently to write better the decree-law or to have more precise and punctual economic assessments, by important and significant consultants, who will take their fee on the basis of the value of the transaction, as if to write such a thing and to grant all the benefits to a single subject it would take who knows what advice and what advice should be paid? And I wonder if it is true, Mr. Representative of the Government, that for that advice the Government pays 60 million euros, in the context of the public money made available to this initiative. As Senator De Petris said yesterday, we have to ask who needs this. I do not think that we can answer only with the moral suasion of a weak government, first of all with regard to its majority and even weaker with regard to other institutional entities. I believe that we are dealing with a wider and more systematic operation. Senator Martelli mentioned this earlier in his speech: we know where the financial crisis that struck our banks, as well as all the European banks, was born, and where it should have been dumped, that is, exactly here. However, let us remember that our banking system is a unique one and has a somewhat different history than the others, because competition, difference and diversity of the banking market have always been a strength of our economic system. And thanks to that diversity and competition economic phenomena were born in almost all Italian territories. Certainly the model of the North East is the most obvious one, which can boast the larger "numbers" and that still today, despite all this, can guarantee the towing of the locomotive of the Italian export. Well, in order to do this - and do it better - in our country, it was precisely this characteristic that had to sink down and there would not have been such an opportunity without a "magical decree" aimed at removing from that diversity, those differences and competition on the market the fundamental data of economic democracy, guaranteed by the capitarian vote, with its limitations, its defects, but also its great virtue of preventing the climbs and the "dismantlings" of deregulated finance. This is exactly what we want to allow and apply, first of all, to the banks of the territory, by removing the capitarian vote, by means of a rule that cancels the rule of voting for each head and passes to the vote for holding of shares. Little by little those actions and that value are removed from the territory and from the government of the territory, to move to larger aggregations. So, after the big binge of the theory of privatization of public banks at the time of the savings banks, which over a few months were transformed into completely private banks and which today we call former banking foundations - just to fool ourselves a little - we arrive at the plundering of the banks of the territory, in the logic that, if we do not aggregate and if we are not large, we cannot stand the competition on the market. Of course, the market these gentlemen think of is so deregulated that it can create the monsters it has produced. Then we will soon witness - I am unfortunately easy prophet - also the fact that, despite the aggregations, on the skin and shoulders of small savers and shareholders, the banks will cling and become great, guaranteeing oligopolies, that it will be very easy to break down, in the final phase of the transformation and evolution of finance, that will lead us, sooner or later - I believe before what is commonly believed - to see canceled or strongly reduced the role of banking mediation in our country. And this will happen because we have to leave room for financial intermediation, which has no rules, is not controlled and is not verified by anyone and where large masses of money are transferred into nanoseconds from one part of the planet to the other, in order to indulge financial speculation of all kinds. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I invite you to conclude, Senator Bonfrisco. BONFRISCO (FL (Id-PL, PLI)). Faced with the request for confidence made by a government that does not take all this into account and supports such a process and such a suicidal drift, I say no. And I will vote against this decree-law which I consider profoundly wrong and detrimental to the widespread interests of such a valuable territory for our country. We who are here to represent those territories, like all the others, should defend this first. We cannot do that if the government has its head in Europe and does not have its legs and feet on this territory. We can only do this if we regain credibility and authority in defending what has been precious to us and which has made us one of the world's major economic powers and which today sadly also accompanies us, with decrees such as those in our examination, towards the removal from that world. But that's probably exactly what you wanted to do with Italy.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-07-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-867.ana.u84	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-07-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-867.ana.u85	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-07-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-867.ana.u86	TOSATO (LN-Aut). Madam President, even in this speech on trust I confirm the discomfort expressed in the general debate on the decree on banks. And I confirm that because we have found ourselves unable to play our role as parliamentarians. We Venetian parliamentarians felt very much the need and the task of expressing to this House the expectations of Venetian savers who with the decree-law under consideration are abandoned, and we could not do so fully to the House and today to the Senate, because the decree will be voted with two confidences and without possibility of modification. It is clear, therefore, that we will vote against the method used and the merit. This is now a Parliament deprived of its powers. This is a theatre where you now force us to yet another farce and play. As we have already said in general debate, there are two fundamental issues which we are opposed to and which we have opposed in the Commission and in this House. Two issues are not addressed: the first are the responsibilities of those who have caused the situation of the two banks in question to deteriorate and, in general, of the Italian banking system and more, in general, of the economic system of our country. You do not affect the responsibilities, you do not attack them, you almost protect them with your inertia and ignorance in the face of what happened. The second issue is that you do not protect all savers in the same way. In the face of a huge crisis, which has led to a decline in our country's gross domestic product of 10%, you cannot say that shareholders have to pay, those who have subordinate products have to pay because they have faults. No! The North League wants to confirm again this time that they have no fault, they are victims of the policies of successive governments in recent years, that they have sold their national interest to the European lobby, that they have given in to the monetary power, sold out our economy and put out our companies and our craftsmen. These are the real responsibilities, and for these reasons measures were to be introduced in recent years to protect all savers, and not just some. However, I would also like to give a different cut to this intervention, because I repeat that I do not want to participate fully in this farce. The victims are many and there are definitely customers of the banks Etruria, Chieti, Ferrara, Marche and Monte dei Paschi. Today, however, we are talking about the victims of two Venetian banks of my territory, a land rich in the eyes of many and which produced wealth not because it was given to it by the State, by politics or by governments, but because it was produced with the sacrifice and work of entire generations of Venetians. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group.]] (at 11.50 a.m.) (continued TOSATO). I would like to remind you in this House that Veneto was a poor land, that has seen migrations both inside and outside the country, which is rare for a territory of the North. I remember the many Venetians who went to work in the agropontino, nearby, and the Venetians who went to Australia, the Americas and Belgium, in the mines. Those were Venetians who wanted to work and grow. In the post-war period they demonstrated all their qualities: they created a unique production system in Italy and in the world made of micro-enterprises. The Venetians for culture are dedicated to sacrifice and work, but they also dream of being masters of themselves, of undertaking and opening an activity. And that dream has come true in decades of hard work and has made the fortune not only of Veneto, but also of the entire country. Faced with that model that has produced wealth for all, faced with a real and contingent difficulty, the attitude of the Government has been to turn to the other side, or rather to overload Veneto in the last decades of taxes, untenable bureaucratic passages, to the point of destroying it. That is the real responsibility. This is the issue that had to be addressed, and not the inability of small entrepreneurs to honour their debts to banks. They could not do that, because they were unable to do so, because since 2008 a tragedy has struck them, in front of which they were absolutely unable to react. And how did they react? They reacted to the Venetian: working, sacrificing themselves. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group]] At some point, however, they found themselves unable to find a solution. Venetians tend not to complain and to be ashamed of their difficulties, and that is why most suicides due to the crisis took place in Veneto. We are incapable of thinking that the responsibility for one of our problems lies with others. They have taught us that we must solve our own problems, that somehow we are the culprits of our misfortunes and have not been able to react. It is dramatic what has happened in our territory; a territory that produces wealth, but which today suffers in silence, as our fathers have taught us to do. That is why we rebel against the decree-law in question that treats us as the last, as guilty. We don't have any blame. In the face of this crisis the Venetians have no fault, but they are victims and they are victims several times: victims of this Government, of the injustice of this State that oppresses us and takes away all our riches; victims of those who managed the banks and of the decree-law in question that does not adequately protect us. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group]] We know that we are a land that produces wealth. We produce more than 20 billion a year that we generously entrust to the State, to this State of which we belong: I repeat more than 20 billion a year. If we manage this money, we will know that we can reduce the tax burden, that we can still make our companies competitive, that we can honour our debts to the banks. We know that we could provide services far more suited to the needs and dignity of our territories. We know all this. Those 20 billion belong to us, they are the fruit of our work, they are not given to us. And it is unfair and unfair that, in the face of a crisis such as the present one, there is a State that appropriates each year and uses them badly, because they are not distributed in a fair way to the territories of our country, so that they produce wealth also in other areas of Italy. They are wasted and this has become unacceptable. We are tired of suffering for faults not ours and that is why in Veneto there is a strong autonomousist air that has existed for decades and that never dies, because it is a real need and not a selfish desire towards other territories or the State. It's a necessity. We must defend our dignity, our productive system. We owe a great deal to the past generations who have given us a rich land. And we owe something also to future generations, who no longer find the opportunity to prosper in our Veneto. There are too many Venetians who are migrating to other lands, 10,000 each year, and that is unacceptable. Our land would have the opportunity to produce the wealth of Europe's most advanced regions. There is no lack of will to work and undertake, and this capacity has not been reduced over the years, but we have a partner (the State) who oppresses us and makes us slaves. See that the worst thing for a Venetian is not to be treated as a subject, but the fact that he has also lost consciousness of being treated as a subject. We, the North League and autonomous movements, want to awaken this feeling and we will do so with a referendum that will take place on 22 October, which will not be the referendum of Luca Zaia or the referendum of the North League, but will be the referendum of all the Venetians, of those who were born in Veneto and of those who came in it to live, work and build their own future. That will be a battle that will bring - I hope and believe - greater justice on our territory, not against someone else and not against other territories. I believe it is our duty to build a better future for the Venetians who still have to build a life and who have the right to work and remain in our territory. This is our task and we will assume it to the full, because we love our land, we love our people and we want more justice and more freedom. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-07-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-867.ana.u87	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-07-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-867.ana.u88	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-07-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-867.ana.u89	Mr Barani (ALA-SCLP). Mr President, the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats will vote against the measure of confidence, in its form and in its substance. As Mr Zanetti has done for our Group in the House, I too will try to give some substantive reasons for this, asking the representative of the Government, who is listening to me, and of course to you, Mr President, for the Committee of Inquiry into Banks to be done. We also love our territory, the Italian territory, since we are the Upper House and represent the whole country, and therefore we want to know who are the first 100 debtors of the Monte dei Paschi and who are the biggest debtors of the Venetian banks, because there is the plague. We want to see there and that is where the Commission of Inquiry has to work. We are fully aware and convinced of the fact that this Government, as well as the previous one, has inherited the pieces of bad management of those banks (all well paid) and controls whose effectiveness must at least be considered doubtful, by Consob and Bank of Italy; and let us not forget that Consob, Mr. President, is appointed by the Government. And finally there will be competent forums where to deepen these aspects. So one of the things we are asking for, and we do not understand why it is not done, since it is now a law, is the Commission of Inquiry. We think that in many other situations the current Government, as well as the previous one, has done the best possible, given the circumstances, and has done so also in these days, regarding the story of the Mount of the Paschi of Siena. But with regard to the specific affair of the Venetian banks, we cannot share what has been done. It's an abjuration, it's done what shouldn't have been done. At the beginning of the year the government had a line and a majority - now it has neither a line nor a majority - and there was a reasonableness of behavior, always in a context of difficulty, where the optimal solutions, for those who know the real world and not only the ideal and didactic one, were not there. But there was a reasonableness of action, given the circumstances, which had led to a precautionary capitalization plan - in the case of the Monte dei Paschi di Siena it was concluded positively - which provides for the use of public resources, but in such a context that the State loads not only losses and negativity, but also assets, with a logic of transitional nationalization, and then relaunches the bank and returns resources that it temporarily makes available. In the case of the Venetian banks, this road has proved to be untraceable. Since the beginning of the year, a decision had to be taken to force the relationship with Europe; a force that a strong government would have done, of course, temporarily, then to see a realignment in the following months, long before an infringement procedure was concluded; or, alternatively, to put in place the solution that was found. Putting it on the ground, not waiting for the last second, but clearly saying that the banks were not going to fail, and opening a really open and transparent procedure on the market with adequate time, clearly saying that the State, in the impossibility of a precautionary recapitalisation, was at that point willing to assess the path that was chosen as the last resort. Therefore, it should have taken on the negative part of the assets, given guarantees and on these grounds verify which, among the players on the market, they would have been willing to bear, at least in part, the restructuring costs. There is no doubt that, with such a procedure in good time and in good time, there would not simply have been a EUR 1 offer, but there would have been more offers than, if they had not given the willingness to charge the entire amount of 1.2 billion restructuring costs, at least they would have given the willingness to cover a significant part of it. If we have found ourselves with a capestro offer to 1 euro all inclusive, or better to 1 euro for everything that is good and the rest instead holds it the State, is because it has expected the last second, has opened a fake transparent procedure, a Friday in haste and fury, and then ask for a binding offer for the proposers by Wednesday, that is five days later, without due diligence. In all this, the strange thing is not that there was only one offer, but that there is an offer. This is the animus necandi; this is the strange thing, because it is completely peaceful that with these reaction times no banking group is able to conclude a decision-making process within it, assuming its responsibility for its own governing bodies. I repeat, no one. So, that there has been an offer, it is a fact - if we want - strange, but it is not a fact to be considered miraculistic. It is normal that the other groups consulted said: "We are not able to make any offers." The hasty cat made blind kittens; here instead they saw us well, at least for the amount of 1 euro that they paid. This procedure had been initiated in March or April, and it was noted that there were no other roads, in a truly open and transparent way, making the banks immediately secure, and saying that in the end this type of solution would have been found, so not running the risk of an escape to the counters, the State would still have borne lower burdens than the ones it is managing here. However, a strong government and majority would have been needed, but we have already said that they are not there. This is to say the inevitability of this decree-law which, when it is converted, is objective; it is an inevitability which, however, cannot be totally dumped on Parliament without the assumption of responsibility on the part of those who made it inevitable, and did so by losing - I repeat - between two and four months. Until March - we can say until April, to be generous - there was a line that deserved respect. Then there was only a waste of time, a melina - to put it in football terms - until what was done became inevitable, not open and transparent, but simply inevitable. Even in the face of this, our Group, which does not base its political action on the screams and counterpositions regardless, but always tries to take responsibility for the responsibility that is necessary in many fringes, would also have been willing to give its vote, had at least been accepted the changes that, moreover, had been taken over by the majority rapporteur in the House (then had been overturned in the Senate, where it was said that there would be other changes), with a very good job. But these changes saw, again in this case, a total closure, despite many of them, however, did not concern the direct relationship with the buyer Banca Intesa Sanpaolo, which, apparently, would not have accepted any of them, but they were independent of it and therefore were technically possible. It was enough to want to do them, starting with some very simple, basic things, such as those related to the tax relationship with regard to the shareholders of the two banks, already deeply damaged. For them, it would have been appropriate to avoid the further mockery that today can still be expressed on the taxation side of the small reimbursements that some of them have received in the past weeks from the two banks, which to date are objectively to be considered as sums to be taxed, as the regional direction of Veneto has said. It was appropriate to make it clear as a rule that it was not so to make a gift, but simply because it is sums with which the loss is contained, and certainly not sums that result in a gain. In conclusion, Mr President, as regards the taxation aspects of capital gains that could be offset by the enormous losses achieved, the state will remain there for twenty years waiting for the liquidation of the bad bank to be completed, not even this was done. This time, honestly, we went further in creating the situation and then, as we said, in parliamentary management. Therefore, with regard to this horrendous affair of the decree-law on Venetian banks, our Group will obviously vote no to trust. [[Applause from Senator Pagnoncelli.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-07-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-867.ana.u90	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-07-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-867.ana.u91	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-07-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-867.ana.u92	FORNARO (Art. 1-MDP). Mr President, representatives of the Government, our Group in the House has expressed a profound discomfort towards this decree-law by voting against the merit of the provision and in favour of trust for a duty of responsibility towards the country. [[Ironic applause from the M5S Group.]] 12:08 a.m. (Follows FORNARO). The ironic applause shows that you do not know the Rules of Procedure of the House. SANTANGELO (M5S). We know him, we know him. FORNARO (Art. 1-MDP). We cannot fail to note, once again, that Parliament is faced with the fact that, without the possibility of affecting it, it has made its own contribution. Today, rather than the conversion of a decree-law, we should talk about the ratification of a contract of a private nature. The difficulties of the banking system would have deserved much more in this parliamentary term. As has been mentioned by many colleagues, we have been in the third crisis since 2015: a crisis to which the Government has given, for example different, but - then I will return - also by choice, three different ways of responding. President Marino recalled this: the burden sharing in occasion of the crisis of the four small popular banks, the preventive recapitalisation in the case of MPS and today the administrative forced liquidation with the crisis of Banca People's Bank of Vicenza and Veneto Bank. In all three cases, however, undersecretary Baretta, the perception of public opinion was that of a government that pursues, that runs behind the bank corporate crises; a government that does not prevent, without a systemic vision on the future of credit in our country. Of course, they have not helped the government nor the populist drift, of which we have heard echoes even in this House yesterday and today, nor even a violent lessening of the difficulty of the Italian banks at the beginning of the crisis put in place by the ABI itself (Italian Banking Association). While in other states it was chosen at the time to prevent - and I remember some data: the public interventions in support of banks in the period 2008-2011 reached in the United Kingdom the size of 593.9 billion euros; in Germany 122.5 billion euros; in France 69; in Belgium 125.4; in Ireland 116.8; in the Netherlands 83.1 - in the same period the intervention, in the way of a hybrid instrument like the Monti bond, was 4.6 billion euros. If we were in the place of Minister Padoan - tell him, Undersecretary Baretta, when he sees him - we would be even more cautious today to argue that the emergency is over. Perhaps the emergency is over, but not the crisis and difficulties of the banking system, which still have two big icebergs in front of them, on the road to normalization. The first is non-performing loans (NPLs), i.e. impaired loans. I would like to point out to my colleagues that, as of 31 December 2016, the stock of gross NPLs, losses and outstanding loans, including total employment, represented 18% of the total for Italy, for Spain 6, for France 4 and for Germany 2. The European Central Bank has identified 7% as a threshold for danger. In other words, at 31 December 2016, Italy had a gross stock of NPL of 324 billion euros (7 percent would be equal to 125 billion euros). Therefore, we are still facing a long way to go. 60 billion recovery is expected in 2017. It is true that part of this mountain has already been digested with adjustments in bank balance sheets and that there are positive signs in early 2017, where net suffering amounts to 76.5 billion (the figure is from last May). However, the iceberg is still there, because it is the son of a double bubble that has burst: that of credit and that of real estate. The second iceberg is the profitability of the banks. Today the flattening of the rates imposes a new model of business and we do not see from the banking system signs in this direction. Returning to the merit of the crisis of the Venetian banks, if it is true that on June 23, 2017, when the European Central Bank declared the failure of the two banks, it could not be done much differently, they do not convince us many things, starting from the off-market value attributed to the sufferings (46.9% on the nominal, against, for example, 20-21 percent of the NPL of Monte dei Paschi di Siena). It is equally clear that the safeguards guaranteed to Banca Intesa for the acquisition of the good bank go far beyond the normal standard of these transactions and that the feeling transmitted to the country is that, in the end, as an old popular saying says, the profits are privatised in Italy and the losses are socialized. However, this does not re-establish a climate of trust, but it feeds the idea that wrongdoers do not pay. Apart from the work of the judiciary, of which there are echoes today also in the newspapers, the decree-law under consideration could have - indeed, in our opinion, should have - given a signal, strengthening the sanctions. I recall our amendment, which was accepted by the rapporteur in the debate in the Chamber of Deputies, on which the Minister for Economic Affairs and Finance agreed, which provided that, in the event of the exercise of liability actions against directors of banks, pursuant to Article 2.394- bis of the Civil Code, they would apply to those administrators ancillary penalties, such as the perpetual prohibition from public offices, from the exercise of the professions, as well as from the management offices of legal persons and businesses, as well as the inability to negotiate with the public administration. This amendment, undersecretary Baretta, with the agreements made with Banca Intesa, would not have affected anything and could have been approved in the Chamber of Deputies, which was not done. The medium-term objective is therefore twofold. We must, on the one hand, help the stabilisation of the system by overtaking the NPL iceberg and, on the other hand, restore the confidence of both currentists and citizens. That's why it was important to give that signal, which I recalled earlier, that the wrong party pays, and a new bank-customer relationship is absolutely necessary. The natural conclusion of these brief considerations would be the announcement of our vote against, and instead the Article 1-MDP Group will vote in favour of the government's confidence. It is a choice dictated by the remembered responsibility towards the country for the negative systemic consequences that would result from a non-conversion into law of the decree-law. We are voting in favour because in the face of the ECB's declaration of failure, the alternative to bail-in would certainly have been even more penalising. With the same intellectual honesty, however, we strongly point out to the representatives of the Government - I see two of them present here and thank them - that we are tired of being confronted with the accomplished fact; we are tired of seeing our essential policy points, such as the issue of vouchers in the labour market, treated like whims and instrumental arguments, while, as in the recent case of ius soli, the priorities of others are kept in much other consideration. We are tired of not seeing our demand, expressed several times, of discontinuity with the economic choices of the Renzi Government, translated into concrete acts. Without a clear and clear discontinuity in the DEF update note and the budget law, our support and responsibility may no longer be sufficient and we would therefore be forced to take note of the situation and choices made in this case, not by us, but by the Government and the Democratic Party. I therefore repeat, with the reservations and the reasons expressed above, our vote in favour of confidence. [[Applause from the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, Art.1-MDP and Senator Campanella.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-07-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-867.ana.u93	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-07-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-867.ana.u94	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-07-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-867.ana.u95	DE PIN (GAL (DI, GS, MPL, RI)). Madam President, I have said a great deal in the past about the fact that we are dealing, even through concrete acts, with questions and drafts of law (my first draft law that I tabled in Parliament was that for the establishment of a Commission of inquiry into Venetian banks), but today I add something else. A rule of law cannot be just a terminological enunciation, it must also be realized in action, in protection for the weakest, in a constant struggle for rights, always stating that the law is equal for all. The title of the decree-law to be converted is emblematic: Emergency provisions for the compulsory administrative winding-up of Banca Popolare di Vicenza S.P.A. and Veneto Banca S.P.A. It already emerges from the title as the purpose of the measure is not to defend the crooked customers, but the assets of the banks to be saved, I would say to be recycled. It is not difficult to understand that today the Government asks for a concrete measure in favor of the financial complex and with a promise from sailor the commitment to tighten the penalties for those administrators who have destroyed the savings of the Venetians and who now laugh seeing the impunity ever closer. This government is on early expiry, every day climbing on the walls of this Palace while the same is surrounded by the human protest of families, workers, pensioners who have lost both their economic future and a past of work and sacrifices. I cannot give the confidence to those who have violated Article 47 of the Constitution, to those who have chosen not to protect the savings of citizens, to those who will not only suspend all payments, compensations and refunds not yet carried out by the banks, but will stop all pending or to be taken judicial actions. It will also stop those who have signed the settlement agreement at 15%, for the return of a small part of their savings; they too will not see a euro, despite the precise commitment of the bank. But talking about commitment to the government is like talking to the fog: without color, without substance. Veneto is my region, a land of workers, small and medium-sized entrepreneurs who have always been the beating heart of northern Italy. Today it is a land tormented by suicidal entrepreneurs, by the desperation of those who had entrusted the savings of a life to banks to give a dignified life to their children, all: disappointed, abandoned, ridiculed by the Government. This is a government that declares itself linked to the ideology of the Left. In fact, on the left he has only conduct! Congratulations for destroying the spirit of a Region that gave blood for Italy and that, thanks to this, next October 22 will manifest all its anger by voting for an autonomy that takes it as far away from Rome as possible. Isn't it true that your government has lost all the referendums? You've gotten used to it, and that means how far away you are from the people. For these reasons, I am voting against avoiding in fact any complicity with a distracted government, perhaps complicit in financial logic, but certainly far from the real needs of the citizens. Congratulations on the disaster!
ParlaMint-IT_2017-07-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-867.ana.u96	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-07-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-867.ana.u97	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-07-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-867.ana.u98	Conte (AP-CpE-NCD). Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, when we are finally adopting this decree-law, we must think clearly and objectively about the problems which it is trying to solve. And simple questions must be asked, based on the evidence of the facts. What happens concretely if this decree-law is not converted? What happens concretely in the lives of families and businesses in the territory? The measures contained in the Decree-Law consist essentially of the points outlined already during the general discussion, which I am now limiting to nuclear. First of all, the sale of part of the assets of the two Venetian banks to a buyer, Banca Intesa, and the transfer of its staff. In order to ensure the continuity of access to credit by households and businesses, as well as for the management of the restructuring processes of banks in liquidation, an injection of liquidity of approximately €4.8 billion and the granting of state guarantees, for a maximum amount of about €12 billion, was arranged on the financing of the liquidation mass of the two institutions by Intesa Sanpaolo. For subordinated creditors of banks that are retail investors, a refreshment mechanism similar to that established for resolution institutions in November 2015 has been outlined. In addition, measures have been introduced to make the disposal operations and public interventions that can accompany them tax-free. It is also intended to allow the transfer of claims for deferred taxes of banks in liquidation to the transferee of the banking company. Finally, the rules governing State intervention in the procedures for the reorganisation and recapitalisation of banking institutions have been amended, in particular the rules on the sharing of bank consolidation costs between shareholders and subordinated creditors. The simple thing to observe, which, however, very often, has been omitted in the institutional fora, is that, if this decree-law were not converted, for the citizens and businesses of the territory and for the entire Italian credit system would be a disaster of gigantic proportions. That is the fact on which we must vote today. A further issue is the possible liability of operators, which must certainly be ascertained. Another theme is the judgment on the past: if you could do better and before. Who has these responsibilities? Who created these situations? Why have you come so far? Who will respond to what has happened, where and how can this happen? These responsibilities will certainly have to be established. Certainly the Venetians are victims. They are victims, however, of other Venetians. And it is said by those who live in the Province of Treviso, in the heart of the economy led by these two banks. And we want to go to the bottom of it and also the Committee of Inquiry into Banks - the one we have set up - must serve to go to the bottom of it to find the responsibilities of the administrators and of those who did not do the checks in depth, those controls that were perhaps to be done even on those bonds that were issued at a time when it was clear what would happen to those banks. But we need to clarify the content of this measure. This is not a decree-law saves banks, this is a decree, like the previous one, that gave the outline, the context, the coverage, the famous twenty billion for the protection and the safeguard of our banking system, that protects the accountants, protects two million people who have put their savings in these two banks and who have no fault or responsibility if they have been managed in a wrong, irresponsible way. But the protection of accountants, the protection of 200,000 companies and the employment they generate, the safeguarding of a perspective for almost 10,000 employees is something that we are very concerned about and that we must face with a great sense of responsibility. We are aware that if a piece of this system goes missing, we do not go in the logic of the much worse, the better. It skips one of the dorsal spines, one of the fundamental skeletons that holds a country called the banking system, the financial system, a system that gives sap to the growth, support and help of a country. To entrust everything to anger or defeatism would only support the logic of the much worse, all the better, unacceptable for those who are called to sit in this place called Parliament, which represents the institutions of a country and which has a task that has been entrusted to them. A political class with a capital "p" must say: yes, we are, despite everything and despite all. Let us say clearly what the responsibilities are, but we are and are jointly responsible for saying that we have a perspective, that we give protection, that we create conditions so that, of course, this can happen. In this direction the Government and this majority have supported from the beginning, first with the motion then with the decree-law that gave the protection (the 20 billion) and now with this intervention and in different ways, the possibility that the Italian banking system can and must continue to protect our families, our savers, our companies and the currentists. There were two ways, and they are two different ways, using the umbrella of EUR 20 billion of the previous measure that we all wanted; on the contrary, many criticisms had been determined by the fact that the measure had come too late to erode. The use of those resources had two fundamental elements, and saw two different ways of intervention and use because the two cases were different, both important, both fundamental, but with two radically different situations: the one, of course, that saw the Monte dei Paschi, and the one that today sees the Venetian banks being involved. The first one saw an intervention of 5 billion, by the state, which intervened to support the revival and redevelopment of that bank. For what reasons? Simply because it was - not according to us, but according to an objective fact - in a condition different from that of the Venetian banks that we are facing. The second is the one we're analyzing. Here, as the European Central Bank has said, we are facing a near-failure. So we're not intervening? The solution adopted in this decree-law aims to protect the accountants, to give the possibility to such an important territory as that of the Veneto and the Nordest to have a solid bank, a very important system that continues to guarantee and develop the activity of the enterprises and that, at the same time and at the same time, also guarantees and protects the employment. The overall burden of the problems of that economic world and that productive world has been borne by us. The 20 billion cover for the banks that have been authorised is a loan that we have made and which, as has already been shown in the past, will return to the state's coffers. In the case of Monte dei Paschi, 640 million more went back to the state coffers. The policy on the recovery of inexpensive debts has also proved effective: just think that 90% of the inexpensive credits of the Banco di Napoli have been recovered. This has been the path that has been chosen and is the path of responsibility policy. On the contrary, a policy that cannot assume, by demagogy, the responsibility of telling the truth for fear of losing consent, then loses more because the hidden problems do not disappear, on the contrary, continue to grow, and sooner or later reality will present the bill. We did what had to be done to safeguard an economic system. We have protected banks not because we are dealing with banks, but because we are dealing with their customers, savers and businesses around the world. We assume responsibility because there is no economic system where banks do not work. We believe that banks also serve, and that a banking system is indispensable to make the business system work, also and above all in a system such as the Venetian one, which is the backbone of the national production system. Therefore, Mr President, we will vote with conviction, as a People's Alternative, in favour of the government's confidence in this decree-law. [[Applause from the AP-CpE-NCD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-07-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-867.ana.u99	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-07-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-867.ana.u100	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-07-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-867.ana.u101	DE PETRIS (Misto-SI-SEL). Madam President, the Senators of the Italian Left will vote against the government's confidence in this decree-law, not only because the question of trust has been raised, but also and above all because of the content of the decree-law. We do not share them and oppose the method by which the parliamentary process of the measure has been managed, partly because it is clear to everyone that the Government and the majority do not intend to tackle the problem of banking crises with structural measures. We were faced with a veritable raid. After a broader picture of the possibility had been presented, on the days from 23 to 25 June, the ECB noted the bankruptcy of the two banks and the whole procedure started from there. We remain convinced that not all the possibilities have been examined, including those of nationalization of the two banks in Veneto also through a profitable management of mixed packages of outstanding loans and credits in Bonis. In the financial landscape there are - you know perfectly well - solutions of this kind, but there has been no opportunity to discuss them. It has been said that there were no times and that is frankly unacceptable. I think this is the first time in the history of the Republic that passes a decree-law without even an amendment. Why? In fact, we all know that and we have discussed it in these few hours: everything has been decided within the Board of Directors of Banca Intesa. Other than parliamentary approval of the bill of conversion of the decree-law. Its conversion into law took place on the Board of Directors of Banca Intesa. Not even two years after the sad episode of the four regional banks of November 2015, Italian taxpayers and savers are again called to pay to offset the losses of Banca Popolare di Vicenza and Veneto Banca. 12:33 p.m. (De PETRIS follow-up). The good bank is, in fact, acquired by Banca Intesa on extremely favourable conditions, not only because it selects to its liking the assets of the two Venetian banks (including 26 billion credits in low-risk Bonis), but also because it dictated to the Government all the conditions for its descent into the field. And so Intesa has obtained from the State 5 billion euros ready cash, plus another 12 billion of public guarantees, our guarantees. To this sum are added the 2.5 billion of the recapitalizations of the two banks, now in liquidation, paid only a year ago by the Atlas Fund, financed by the main Italian banks. In short, Intesa puts a euro in it and takes home the part from which you can earn the profits. The taxpayers put us from 5 to 17 billion and bring home the suffering of the two Venetian banks. In fact, the non-performing loans were transferred to the SGA owned by the Treasury. There was an alternative to the entrance of Banca Intesa: through SGA, the Company for the management of activities acquired by the Ministry of Economy and Finance in 2016, the State should also have acquired the ownership of the Bonis relations of the two credit institutions, instead of giving them to Banca Intesa. As stated by several economists, there were the financial technical procedures that would have made this solution possible; this would have mitigated the costs of the operation for Italian taxpayers, which in fact will cover a large part of the burdens due to the multi-annual mismanagement of the two banks in liquidation, perhaps in the form of increases in VAT or return of the tax on the first house, or further cuts in health care or pensions. Of course, it was a matter of overcoming the Brussels opposition. But the arguments were there and they were solid. The bureaucrats of the European Union could not have argued that this was state aid, as SGA has been public since 2016. But the government has ruled out this, so to speak, intelligent way, not only to avoid confrontation with Europe, but unfortunately out of conviction. It was necessary to quickly nationalise the Venetian banks and manage them as public development banks in order to revive the national economy and territories. Instead, the government threw losses on taxpayers' shoulders, to leave all the advantages and profits to Banca Intesa. All the weight of the crisis has been thrown on the shoulders of the Italian taxpayers: the state is committed for about 17 billion, a huge amount, equal to a financial maneuver. This is what is called the socialization of losses and the privatisation of profits. This figure could have revived public investment and created millions of jobs. Thanks to the revival of the economy, it could also have contributed to the consolidation of the banking system, overtaken by about 350 billion euros of deteriorated loans. The decree-law under consideration was also the only solution to help savers and the local economy. Let's ask ourselves, though, if you really save the savers. Certainly not all of them. The measure excludes, in fact, from the sale, even in derogation from the principle of par condicio creditorum, the category, not very large, but still very present, of small shareholders, i.e. that myriad of old members with residual shares in the two banks of Veneto, whose value had been significantly reduced in the last year, and which, on the basis of the provisions of the measure, will also be zeroed their minimum participatory share. They are savers, families, workers and pensioners, who have wagered figures from their family budget on institutions that believed in good health and well managed - I say it ironically - for which the measure does not include any support measures or judicial protection. All persons who, despite having unwittingly invested their savings in subordinated financial instruments issued by the two banks, were excluded from the refreshment procedures. We therefore ask the Government what initiatives it intends to take in favour of this group of small shareholders. Do you intend to introduce the necessary corrective measures, in other measures, in order, for example, to protect large-scale discrimination in respect of reimbursements to savers, by including them, for example, in the next budget law? The Gruppo Sistemia, a non-performing credit management company, has found that currently there are 357,000 properties auctioned in our country, deriving from loans or loans in distress, for a nominal value of 88 billion euros, which can be sold with many difficulties through public auctions. Here we touch another uncovered nerve of the banking issue. The data reported from a recent analysis represent the macroscopic dimension of the phenomenon of deteriorated or stranded credits and show that it is structurally more serious in Italy than in the rest of Europe. Of the total of 1,014 billion euros of receivables entered in and held in April 2016 by all banks of the Eurozone, about 324 were assigned to the Italian banking system, against 68 of the German banking system and 150 of the French and Spanish banking systems. In the face of this indistinguishable mass of deteriorated loans, which are likely to further collapse the Italian credit system, the exclusion of increasing shares of the population from accessibility to rentals or the purchase of the first house is on the property market. It would therefore be possible, for example, to consider the establishment of a special fund with the Cassa Depositi e Prestiti, to acquire from the banking system real estate loans, assisted by a first-degree mortgage, in distress, up to a maximum value of 50% of the residual value. Such an operation would help, on the one hand, to free the banking system from a large proportion of outstanding loans and, on the other hand, to increase public housing provision in favour of the less well-off classes, instead of continuing to consume other territory. It is quite clear that the public interest in the transaction, which could result precisely in the acquisition, for social purposes, of residential properties at a much lower price than the market. But in reality the government is only aiming at a completely private management of the problem, causing serious difficulties for hundreds of thousands of families. With regard to workers' rights, you said that by means of the decree-law under consideration you would also somehow guarantee the problem of redundancies, but that is not the case. The redundancies plan involves some 3,900 employees, of whom just under 1,100 are part of the scope of the two banks in liquidation. The remaining 2,800 will enter the perimeter of the bank. Here too, the government and Parliament must be vigilant. And then what? Will those responsible pay? We call for a timely reconstruction and a severe sanction of all the responsibilities that have occurred in the banking crises and in this particular. In this regard, we ask you to know how you intend to proceed. We have tabled a motion in this regard, after the amendment tabled to the House has been withdrawn, as everyone knows. The Committee of Inquiry into Banks, although it will have little time to work, must do everything to work hard and identify responsibilities, because it is clear to everyone that behind the problem of the banking crisis there is not only a question of economic crisis, but there is a lack of supervision and, above all, serious political complicity and financial power. We will vote against the confidence of this Government and the conversion into law of this decree-law, because above all it does not address the issue of issues, which seems decisive in order to resolve the banking crisis structurally: the question of the separation of commercial banks from business banks and the need for a public investment bank. We will again face other crises, until we finally put on the agenda of the debate and the decision the return to the separation of commercial and business banks. Once again, the government has been good at finding money for banks quickly and quickly, but whenever measures are needed in favour of those who have more difficulties in this country - and are now more and more - there are no resources. It will therefore remain forever the mark of those who have always been strong with the weak and weak with the strong. For all these reasons, we will vote firmly against the conversion into law of the decree-law and confidence. [[Applause from the Misso-SI-SEL Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-07-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-867.ana.u102	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-07-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-867.ana.u103	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-07-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-867.ana.u104	Mr Capelletti (M5S). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, this decree-law perhaps marks the lowest point reached in this parliamentary term by the Government and the majority. I am saying this and I say it with my heart, a wounded heart, because I too come from that region that is paying the price of a devastation, which is similar, by size, to that of a world war. Just to protect the victims of bank crack, I would have expected a government intervention that would meet the requirements of necessity and urgency. One of the characteristics of this decree, however, is that it completely ignores the victims of crack; indeed, it even worsens their situation and adds a mockery to the damage. By this law, in fact, you remove the possibility of attacking the entire assets of banks from the victims of bank cracks, even if a judgment of the court, as is already the case, because there have already been two, recognizes the right to compensation for the damage. President, in Veneto there is a priest named Don Enrico Torta, who for years has been recognized by all as one of the main spokesperson of the defense committees of the victims of bank cracks. This priest wrote a very heartfelt letter to the President of the Republic, of which I would like to read an excerpt, because he describes what you are doing in an extremely explicit way. Donating the two banks to Banca Intesa for one euro, you accepted "bones" and donated "meat" to Banca Intesa for one euro. He adds: "You will be responsible for what many weak people, now stressed and out of their minds, could accomplish." In short, this measure, Mr President, potentially represents an incitement to suicide, of which many in this House will have to report. And why is it an incitement to suicide? Because it also takes away the remaining hope that justice can be done. Despite all this, I heard the following sentence in the debate yesterday from a majority member: we are proving to be serious people. Mr President, is it for serious people to give the healthy share of two banks to a third private bank, which is still celebrating caviar and champagne for the surge in its securities stock exchange, for the expectation of the next dividend fats? [[Applause from the M5S Group]] It is a bank that already last year distributed dividends for more than 3 billion euros thanks to the gifts of the Government. This government, in fact, is relapsed in billionaire gifts to banks, in particular in Intesa Sanpaolo. I quote one, perhaps the least known: I refer to the gift of the concession of Italy's busiest motorway, the A4 Brescia-Padova. If it had been put to tender it would have yielded to the coffers of the State at least 1,2 billion euros [[Applause from the M5S Group.]] Instead, these resources have ended up in the pockets of a few private subjects, including, by chance, the most important is Intesa Sanpaolo. The question at this point is: why are you doing this? Why are you taking money and resources out of the pockets of the citizens, the weakest citizens, cheated by the banks and taxed by the tax authorities, and the pockets of Intesa Sanpaolo's shareholders, as you were of the modern Robin Hood, but on the contrary, why are you stealing from the poor to give to the rich? [[Applause from the M5S Group]] I believe that you do this for a very simple reason: because then some of those resources go back to politics and are used to buy electoral consensus, to maintain and conquer political power. That's the real reason! [[Applause from the M5S Group]] With Monte dei Paschi di Siena this perverse cycle is all too evident. I have already had the opportunity to quote in this House during the debate on the establishment of the bicameral commission of inquiry into the banking system how much funding, from banks and their administrators, has ended up in the coffers of the Democratic Party and its representatives. Of course, you will tell me that this has happened legitimately; I ask you: also ethically? Yesterday the Vicenza Public Prosecutor closed a first excerpt of investigation on Banca Popolare di Vicenza and defined the first referrals in the opinion of former directors and managers of the bank. Among those sent back to trial stands at least one person who has notoriously financed the election campaign of a well-known member of the Democratic Party, with important national political roles. What about Intesa Sanpaolo? On Intesa Sanpaolo, no more than a few months ago Luciano Violante, perhaps because he was cornered by a journalist who asked him if they had accepted funding from the entrepreneur Romeo for the association "Italiadecide", on the defensive he replied no, that Romeo had not taken even a euro and that the funding took them from Intesa Sanpaolo, from Unicredit and others. In Italy there are 66 foundations linked to politics, created exactly for the purpose of hiding the identity of members and financiers. I mean, the cycle is all too obvious. The policy puts its hands in the pockets of the citizens to finance the banking system, which returns the favor by financing the policy, or the entrepreneurs close to the policy, no matter if then they will repay the loans that are granted to them. And politics uses these resources to preserve its power and continue to put its hands in the pockets of citizens in a continuous cycle, just by serious people. This design would fall like a castle of cards if those responsible for bank cracks were to be called upon to respond, i.e. convicted of the crimes of which they are currently being investigated. But if they were investigated, they would call political co-responsibility of every order and grade, from local to national level, to the highest national levels! [[Applause from the M5S Group]] For this reason, as serious people, you made sure they could get away with it. That's why the prescription terms are very short and you made sure that the prosecutors who are investigating do not have sufficient men and means. Or you will send backup: yes, they have been announced, reinforcements will arrive. But when they get there, it'll be too late. It will be too late to ensure that justice can take its course. So, I believe, gentlemen, that the Italians of this will become more and more aware of this and that they will present you with the bill. I conclude, Mr President, by declaring the "no" convinced of the 5 Star Movement to this trust and to this decree-law. Once again you have put your interests and those of the citizens ahead of you. Since the beginning of this legislature, I have witnessed how you are eating this country piece by piece. But I would never have dared to think that you would come to trample, to bend them to your interests, even the legitimate rights of 210,000 savers already hard tried by this catastrophe, for having lost everything. That is all I have to say, Mr President. You took everything, take these, too. (The Senators of the M5S Group launch numerous reproductions of 500 euro banknotes from the banks). VOICES FROM THE M5S GROUP. Thieves! Thieves!
ParlaMint-IT_2017-07-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-867.ana.u105	A reminder of the order for this repetitive initiative. I also call you to order, Senator Cappelletti, who is the Holding Company. I now give the floor to Senator Carraro. [[Senator Carraro's comments.]] Yes I know, I understand, Senator Carraro, but let's get started, then it is obvious that it will intervene when conditions allow it, but please help the Presidency. [[Comments from the M5S Group]] Mr Lezzi (M5S). Thieves! Shame! PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Come on, come on, it's the fiftieth edition of something already done and rebuilt. That's enough. Come on. Senator Lezzi, I'll call you back to order. VOICES FROM THE M5S GROUP. Thieves! Thieves! PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. All right, they've taken the shot, so you've made the revolution. Senator Carraro, I give you the floor, of course I understand... [[Comments of Senator Airola]] Senator Airola, have a seat. [[Comments of the Minister Faithful at the address of the President]] Yeah, we called them back to order, then we'll evaluate. That's it, just sit down, come on, come on. AIROLA (M5S). How much money did you get? Mr Pizzetti, State Secretary for the Presidency of the Council of Ministers. Your luck is the Basic Law! PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator Airola, I'll call you back to order. Sit down. The Parent Company enforces the order, and so do the Quaestors. VOICES FROM THE M5S GROUP. Shame! PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Shame on who? Sit down and stop this. The Parent Company intervened to illustrate the contents, the rest is deplorable theatricality. I regret this behaviour and I would ask Senator Carraro to do his speech.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-07-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-867.ana.u106	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-07-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-867.ana.u107	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-07-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-867.ana.u108	Carraro (FI-PdL XVII). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, banks are unpopular, but they are an important driver of the economy, for good and for bad. When they go well, they accelerate the development of the economy; when they go badly, they aggravate the crisis of families and businesses. In Italy and the western world, banks went into crisis... (Some M5S senators take pictures with their mobile phones.) Mr Albano (PD). Mr. President! There are rules! AIROLA (M5S). [[At the address of the PD Group, showing copies of 500 euro banknotes]] Do you want some more? PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator Lucidi, Senator Endrizzi, you can't take these pictures and these clowns. Senator Endrizzi, please come in. Please, have a seat. In the meantime, the assistants will restore the House's decorum. Senator Carraro, of course we will take into account the times. Please, you don't lack the experience to deal with the intervention. AIROLA (M5S). It would be a good idea for the PD to come out, for the sake of the House's decorum! PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator Puglia, it is useless that you use these deviant performances, for a truly intolerable protagonism. I'll call you back to order. [[Comments of Senator Castaldi]] Have a seat, too, Senator Castaldi, you don't have the floor. When he has the floor, he will speak. Please, Senator Carraro. Carraro (FI-PdL XVII). In Italy and in the western world, banks went into crisis because credits were paid to those who did not deserve them and because the long economic crisis caused suffering even from customers who were once solvent. The years 2012 and 2013 were crucial. In the Western world the efficient states in those years helped the banks: it is known what happened in Germany, the United Kingdom and the United States. In Italy, the Government did nothing and, at the same time, accepted all European rules on banks, which led the decision-making power to the European Commission and the ECB. The Italian Government has done too little to deal with the economic crisis, so much so that employment has gone badly and problems for families, businesses and banks have become worse. Remember all the events of the four banks; you will also remember that, throughout 2016, Renzi announced the entry of mirabolous investors into the Monte dei Paschi di Siena. The government witnessed the conclusion of the Venetian banks, banks of a very important social and economic territory. Forza Italia, in December and January, has supported the decree-law of 20 billion, because it considers this figure the indispensable premise for the economy to resume and for an efficient banking system that starts again to finance families and businesses. We voted against the decree-law on the Monte dei Paschi, of which we shared the philosophy, which was that of the entrance of the public, temporarily, into the capital. But we had no confidence in the government and, above all, we voted against because the majority opposed the transparency rules that we were asking for to be included in the measure. Today's decree-law has been conditioned by Europe and the ECB, which have forbidden us to retrace the path of the Monte dei Paschi. As set out, the decree-law will make it difficult and complicated to control the 5.4 billion that the State has given Banca Intesa and to control the end that will make the guarantees up to 12 billion that the Italian State gives on non-performing loans. Moreover, this measure contains serious errors, of which the main ones are: insufficient protection, from the economic and fiscal point of view, of the weakest savers; rules that do not give the certainty that those who have destroyed two very important banks pay for the damage done to people and society; no certainty that the large artistic heritage, which belongs to those institutions today, is a preserved and usable asset for all the citizens of the territory and for tourists. In the Committee on Finance (whose President and rapporteur thank you for the usual correctness, both personally and institutionally) on the subjects we have approved agendas. However, the agenda is not enough to change our vote, which is also against because we continue to have no confidence in the government. Forza Italia loves our country. We are pleased to note that after EUR 20 billion has been allocated to strengthen the banking system, there have been positive signals from the stock exchange. We are pleased to note that the OECD no longer talks about the weakness of the Italian banking system and has revised the forecasts for Italy upwards. We hope that this will be the last major banking crisis and that we will finally begin, economically, to move on. [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-07-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-867.ana.u109	Thank you, Senator Carraro, also for having done the surgery in these circumstances.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-07-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-867.ana.u110	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-07-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-867.ana.u111	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-07-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-867.ana.u112	Rossi Gianluca (PD). Mr President, I would like to say to you that the House of an institution, particularly a Parliamentary Assembly, should never host the vulgarity, insults and insults that we have heard today. [[Applause from the PD and AP-CpE-NCD groups and Senator Bencini]] In particular, towards serious colleagues, competent, respectable and committed to defending their territory such as Senators Puppato and Santini. [[Applause from the PD and AP-CpE-NCD groups.]] That is why we call on the presidency of the Senate to intervene in every respect, within its competence. [[Applause from the PD and AP-CpE-NCD groups and Senator Buemi]] You see, Mr President, insults and scenery are an example of a small number of subjects. We prefer to remain on the merits of the measure. Although the Finance Committee has not made any changes to the Decree-Law, it has seriously discussed, as always, in the wake of a broader work of two cognitive surveys, other measures from which shared assessments and proposals have emerged, which represent an important starting point and for this reason I once again thank President Marino for his valuable work. [[Applause from the PD Group]] That is also why the measure we are about to adopt is necessary action. As with the popular banks, the BCC, the Monte dei Paschi, to say it with a slogan so dear to some: we do not save bankers, we save families, businesses, workers. [[Applause from the PD and AP-CpE-NCD groups and Senator Bencini),]] PUGLIA (M5S). What are you talking about? Rossi Gianluca (PD). What would have happened, in fact, if the decree-law had not been enacted? What real alternatives would we have? These are the questions to be asked if we really want to tackle this issue. Also, beware of the hindsight. The causes of the crisis are, of course, due to the sick governance that we want to emphasize and stigmatize of the two banks, but also to the effects of the serious economic crisis that have damaged families and businesses, impacting banks with increasing insolvencies. Today as yesterday, there are those who criticize the Government for having wasted time with the hypothesis of precautionary recapitalisation and there are those who criticize it for the opposite reason, that is to say for not having insisted on it. Moreover, one could first give up the hypothesis in order to do things with more appropriate times: would there have been - some say - the time to make a public auction? Would better conditions be obtained for the taxpayer? The answer is, once again, negative if you look at it with the right lenses. Another criticism that is being made is that we would have hastily changed the winding-up procedure. As everyone knows, the European rules on bail-in and banking crisis management are new and the common feature of all banking crises in Europe to date is that bail-in has never been applied. Everyone, everyone, had to find different ways. Hence an even tougher criticism: every crisis has been treated differently, which would have given rise to unequal treatment. Personally, I agree with those who say that the European Union's attempt to write rigid rules that apply in the same way to all situations is a step forward, not just for the banking system. You see, the United States isn't an exception either. Lehman Brothers was allowed to fail, but the next day the FED rescued the American International Group, the largest American insurance company, with an intervention of $85 billion. In the following days some banks were saved with temporary nationalization, as for Monte dei Paschi di Siena, others with amalgamations in larger banks and with the help of public resources, as for the two Venetian banks. The same reasoning applies to interventions in Germany, the Netherlands and the United Kingdom. In my opinion, this shows that the simplest rule applies: when the crisis occurs, the state must intervene, at least in cases where the whole system is at risk and interventions must be decided from time to time, with margins of discretion, depending on the characteristics and depth of the crisis. (Follows Rossi Gianluca). These brief references outside our home allow us to respond to another criticism, namely that we have put Parliament before the facts we have done, without the possibility of amending the decree-law. It is the truth, but it is a problem that has always and everywhere posed itself in cases of banking crisis. We all know, apart from the dialectic and the political exploitation, that they must be resolved quickly and when they are manifested in a blatant manner. We had not a systemic crisis, but outbreaks of crises that could have generated it. For this reason, we claim the goodness of the measures launched by the Government. Furthermore, I cannot escape a reference to the accounts of the intervention. Someone said that, if these are the accounts, you don't understand why the two banks were put into liquidation. The outgoing directors, those who were chosen by the Atlas Fund to remedy the problems of the past managements, could themselves make the recovery of debts and restore the banks, without the need for the liquidation and intervention of Banca Intesa. This is again the case with the precautionary recapitalisation. The fact is that this argument did not convince European supervision, which explicitly said that the plans submitted by the two banks were not credible and, in any case, it was necessary for a private investor to be willing to put at least EUR 1 billion, which did not happen. Finally, there is one subject which has been discussed a great deal in this House and also in the Finance and Treasury Committee, despite the fact that no changes have been made to the measure. As Minister Padoan himself said at the hearing, the Government, but also the Democratic Party, are without delay of the opinion that we must address the issue of the responsibility of administrators with a tightening of penalties. This must be done with seriousness and rigour. In the same way, we think it would be useful to assess urgently measures aimed at strengthening refreshment measures in favour of investors. Finally, measures should be taken to protect small savers who have invested as a result of placement and execution of orders for the sale of shares put in place against them, with little transparency and without the necessary information on the degree of risk, by those institutions. For these and other reasons, Mr President, the measure must be adopted as quickly as possible and without amendment, in order to eliminate any possible source of uncertainty as to the fate of the two banks. For this reason, the Democratic Party Group will vote firmly for the government. [[Applause from the PD Group. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-07-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-867.ana.u113	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote in dissent from my Group.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-07-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-867.ana.u114	I take note of that and give you the floor.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-07-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-867.ana.u115	SACCONI (AP-CpE-NCD). Mr President, in disagreement with the group that hosts me, I will not express confidence in the government in this measure. At this point there is perhaps no alternative to the solution identified for the Venetian banks. However, I cannot help but think about the lost time, the uncertainties about the path of rehabilitation, the progressive degradation of institutions and the opportunities that have been dissolved due to a weakly managed negotiation with the European Commission, to the point that the question arises of an implicit exchange with the rescue of the Banca Monte dei Paschi di Siena, for which the consent was rather timely. Now it is a question of considering how the same trusts and customers are protected from the danger of a concentration resulting from the merger of the activities in the Intesa group. Not to mention the redundancies that will result from rationalization, with a group largely superimposed on the commercial networks and services of the two institutions absorbed. They deserve adequate protection. But above all it is worrying the condition of the many savers holding shares or subordinated bonds. They will have to be provided with extraordinary measures, at least when the position of weak contractors, induced to buy in good faith, is found on the basis of informative asymmetries. Parliament will have a duty to watch over all these profiles.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-07-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-867.ana.u116	We shall therefore proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-07-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-867.ana.u117	I refer to the vote on the single article of the bill n. 2879, of conversion to law, with amendments, of Decree-Law n. 99, 25 June 2017, in the text approved by the Chamber of Deputies, on the approval of which the Government has posed the question of trust. I recall that pursuant to Rule 94, second paragraph, of the Constitution and pursuant to Rule 161, paragraph 1, of the Rules of Procedure, the vote on the matter of trust will take place by roll-call vote. Each senator called by the Senator Secretary will have to vote before the Presidency. The senators for trust will answer yes; the opposing senators will answer no; the senators who intend to abstain will speak accordingly. They asked to vote first, and I granted it, the Senators Faithful, Nencini, Pinotti, D'Onghia and Gentile. I urge the Senator Secretary to proceed to the appeal of these senators. (The above-mentioned senators respond to the appeal.) I now draw by lot the name of the senator from whom the roll call will begin. (The name of Senator Di Giacomo is drawn by lot.) I invite the Senator Secretary to proceed with the appeal, starting with Senator Di Giacomo. PEGORER, secretary, makes the appeal. (In the course of voting, the Presidency takes over - at 13:17 a.m.) Senators say yes: Albano, Albertini, Amati, Angioni, Anitori, Astorre Battista, Bencini, Berger, Bertuzzi, White, Bonaiu, Bondi, Borioli, Bubbico, Buemi Caleo, Bell, Cantini, Pegacchione, Cardinals, Chiavaroli, Chiti, Cirinna, Cociancich, Collina, Colucci, Conte, Corsini, Cucca D'Adda, Dalla Zuanna, D'Ascoli, De Biasi, Del Barba, Della Vedova, Di Biagio, Dirindin, D'Onghia Esposito Stefano Fabbri, Fasiolo, Fattorini, Faverni, Fedeli, Ferrara Elena, Filippi, Fincchiaro, Guerrare, Fornaro, Fravezzi Gatti, Gentile, Jacobi, Gianni, Ginetti, Ginetti, Ginetti, Ginetti, Granaiolani, Filippini, Filippini, Filippini The senators: Airola, Amidei, Amoruso, Aracri, Arrigoni, Augello, Auricchio, Azzollini Barozzino, Bernini, Bertorotta, Blundo, Bottici, Bulgarelli Calderoli, Caliendo, Candiani, Cappelletti, Carraro, Casaletto, Castaldi, Catalfo, Centinario, Ciampolillo, Comaroli, Compagna, Consiglio, Cotti, Crimi D'Ambrosio Lettieri, Davico, De Cristofaro, De Petris, De Pietro, De Pin, Di Maggio, Divina, Donno Endrizzi Falanga, Fucksia, Gaetti, Gasparri, Giarrusso, Gibiino, Giovanordi, Langella, Lezzi, Lucidi Malan, Mandelli, Mangili, Marin, Martelli, Martelli, Marton, Matteoli, Mauro, Mauro Giovanni, Mauro Mario Mario Walter, Mazzolini, Mazzoni, Mazzoni, Giovani, Giovano, Giovani, Giovani, Milani, Milani, Milani, Milani, Milani, Milani, Milani, Milani, Milani, Miglia, Miglia, Miglia, Miglia, Miglia. (Senator Stephen says he does not take part in the vote.) PRESIDENT. - The debate is I declare the vote closed and invite the Secretary Senators to proceed with the counting of votes. (Secretary Senators proceed to count votes).
ParlaMint-IT_2017-07-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-867.ana.u118	At 11 a.m., the agenda for the meetings of Tuesday, 1 August provides for the discussion of the related draft competition law. In the afternoon session, the Senate's internal budget for 2017 will be examined until its conclusion. The work of next week will also include the discussion of the draft law of the European delegation 2016. As already informally communicated to the Groups, the deadline for the submission of agendas to the internal budget is set at 7 p.m. today, while amendments to the draft competition law will have to be tabled by 1 p.m. tomorrow, Friday 28 July.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-07-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-867.ana.u119	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-07-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-867.ana.u120	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-07-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-867.ana.u121	SANTINI (PD). Mr President, I am speaking very briefly, on behalf of Senator Puppato, who is next to me, in relation to the completely unfounded statements made by Senator Lezzi. I would also like to inform the presidency of the Senate that we have already given our lawyers a mandate to verify the extremes, which we repent very resoundingly, of defamation against the activities of the senators who have been mentioned. This is the first communication. Switching to the second, just as fast. We have read carefully the shorthand report of Senator Lezzi's intervention, which is unfortunately an official account, so in the proceedings. In this account there are completely false statements regarding the attitude that we would have held as senators, especially the fact that we are accused several times of laughing at his statements. Since this is an absolutely false phrase, but it appears to be true in an official document, we ask the President of the Senate to expunge these sentences from the acts, because they are clearly false and do not represent in any way the reality of the facts that have occurred in this House. We believe we have a right, because they are completely invented claims. If anything, we were angry, but certainly we weren't laughing at the unfounded accusations that were being made to us.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-07-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-867.ana.u122	The Presidency takes note of what you have said, Senator Santini. Of course, there can be no intervention in relation to the Reports. But you have also announced your protective measures, so obviously those who make statements then assume responsibility for them, with what follows. The Presidency of the Senate takes note of this intervention, for what is the responsibility of the Presidency.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-07-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-867.ana.u123	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-07-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-867.ana.u124	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-07-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-867.ana.u125	PHASE (PD). Mr President, I rise on the issue of STX France-Fincantieri Spa, which is giving rise to concern in the economic panorama of shipbuilding and politics, after the statements made by French President Macron in recent days of wanting to follow up the contractual clause that would bring back in French the majority of companies, acquired in May by Fincantieri and the CRTrieste Foundation, within sixty days of the conclusion of the purchase contract. The spectre of nationalization seemed to drift away in these hours, thanks to the statements of the spokesman of the French Government, Christophe Castaner, who brought the issue back to the terms of a negotiation to protect the national interests of Oltralpe. With regard to these statements, the French President's denial came a short time ago, reaffirming his desire to nationalize STX, sharpening the backfire on the stock market on Fincantieri's shares. I would therefore like to make a point of order and to express my concern. I remember that the company STX, that has already changed properties three times, has a modest portfolio of contracts, that however is considered of strategic interest for Fincantieri. On the other hand, French concerns about corporate control by Italian actors have no basis: Fincantieri should be considered by the French Government as a more than reliable partner, in the light of the unmistakable production and budget results and the six-monthly approved yesterday by the board of directors of Fincantieri, which marks a more than 1.3 percent turnover compared to the same period last year. We hope that the story will be resolved, in the interest of Fincantieri and our country.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-07-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-867.ana.u126	I declare the result of the roll-call vote by appeal of the sole article of the bill n. 2879, of conversion into law, with amendments, of the decree-law n. 99, June 25, 2017, in the text approved by the Chamber of Deputies, on the approval of which the Government has posed the question of trust: [[Senators present 241 Senators voting 239 Majority 120 Favorable 148 Contrari 91]] The Senate approves. It therefore precludes all amendments and agendas relating to the text of Decree-Law No 99.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-07-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-867.ana.u127	The motions, questions and questions received by the Presidency will be published in Annex B to today's report. I remember that the Senate will come back to meet in public today, at 4 p.m., with the agenda already printed and distributed. The sitting was closed at 13.55 p.m.
