ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-739.ana.u1	The sitting is open (9.31 a.m.). The Minutes shall be read. Mr BERGER, Secretary, gave a reading of the Minutes of the sitting of the previous day. PRESIDENT. - The debate is Since there were no comments, the Minutes were approved.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-739.ana.u2	The list of senators on leave and absent on assignment received from the Senate, as well as further communications to the Assembly, will be published in Annex B to today's Minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-739.ana.u3	I would warn you that qualified votes can be taken in the course of today's sitting by electronic means. Therefore, from this moment the period of 20 minutes from the notice provided for in Article 119, paragraph 1, of the Regulation (9:37 hours) begins.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-739.ana.u4	The next item is the resolution on the opinion of the 1st standing Commission, pursuant to Rule 78 (3) of the Rules of Procedure, on the existence of the conditions of necessity and urgency required by the second paragraph of Article 77 of the Constitution, as well as the requirements laid down by the legislation in force, for the draft law n. 2629: "Conversion into law of Decree-Law No 237 of 23 December 2016 laying down urgent provisions for the protection of savings in the credit sector" At yesterday's sitting, the first standing Commission gave a favourable opinion on the existence of these conditions and requirements. Subsequently, by the prescribed number of senators, the vote of the Assembly was requested on that opinion. As the speaker of the opinion, Senator Mancuso, does not intend to speak, I would remind you that he will be able to speak no more than one representative per Group, for no more than ten minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-739.ana.u5	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-739.ana.u6	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-739.ana.u7	Mr Bruni (CoR). Mr President, with regard to the point we are discussing, the unconstitutionality of the Senate Act 2629, the position we express as a Group does not concern the whole of the decree-law we are discussing today, because the provisions of our constitutional laws are contained exactly in Articles 20 and 21 of the converted decree-law, which essentially amend certain fundamental aspects of the current legislation on the functioning of the cooperative model of credit based on so-called economic democracy, which is precisely the modus operandi of cooperative credit banks, popular banks and then savings banks. It is a radically different model from that typical of credit institutions organized in the corporate form of public limited companies, whose founding principle (one action, one vote) is opposed to the typical economic democracy of cooperative credit, which is based on the principle of the so-called capitarian vote (one man, one vote). The above-mentioned provisions of the decree-law known as MPS save, in providing for a possible and hypothetical state intervention in support of banks with cooperative structure in difficulty - of course they provide in general terms and certainly not for the MPS case - they modify (and here comes the norm that we censurate) the essential aspects, for example by replacing the capitarian vote with that by action, or even by modifying the access to the social structure by derogation from the provisions of Articles 2527 and 2528 of the civil code. These interventions, although aimed at protecting the possible state investment - as highlighted in the introductory report, in which it is argued that the institutions of the so-called economic democracy are not suitable to guarantee that investment - are, in our opinion, manifestly unconstitutional. It is well known to this House that the instrument of the urgent decree must contain measures of immediate application, as defined by paragraph 3 of Article 15 of the - most frequently cited - Law No 400 of 1988, peacefully regarded as of constitutional rank. It is clear that these interventions are far from being immediately implemented, rather than an organic reform of cooperative credit, on the pretext of hypothetical state intervention. This issue has been before Parliament and also the political debate for months and months: the government tries to introduce this type of cooperative credit reform into pills, a path taken by the Renzi government with the reform of popular banks recently censored by the Constitutional Court. The jurisprudence of the Court is now established, according to which a decree-law containing rules, such as those referred to in Articles 20 and 21, not immediately applicable, constitutes a vice of excess of power of the governmental legislator; I would signal in this sense the judgment No 22 of 2012 of the Constitutional Court. This ruling confirms the Court's attention, which duplicates that of the former Head of State, on the correct use of the decree-law as a source of law and instrument of government, so that recourse to it does not overtransmode power by misleading the typical cause of that instrument, as referred to in Article 77 of the Constitution. In order to grasp the pregency of the Court's jurisprudence in the matter of urgent decree, which with this ruling is further consolidated in unique terms in the direction of highlighting the formal and substantive limits to this power, it is not irrelevant how the Court itself has highlighted the fact that the decree-law is placed as the source of law as the primary fruit of a choice of the Executive and not of Parliament. For this reason, the Constitution has limited its adoption both to the factual circumstances referred to in the second paragraph of Article 77 of the Constitution and to the formal limits that define the form of government in force, which focus on the importance of the ordinary legislative procedure in the Chambers, as the ordinary seat for the position of primary law, especially when it involves disciplines of an ordinamental type. These, limited to Articles 20 and 21, are the main reasons that encourage us to support and reaffirm the validity of the statements of unconstitutionality in those parts already indicated, as provided for in article 78, paragraph 3, of the Regulation, that it is possible to point out the unconstitutionality even of some parts of a decree-law in conversion. In this sense our intervention goes in support of the reliefs of unconstitutionality moved to the decree. [[Applause from the CoR Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-739.ana.u8	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-739.ana.u9	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-739.ana.u10	TOSATO (LN-Aut). Mr President, we too support the unconstitutionality of this decree-law and move these remarks on the basis of a very simple argument. The Government has recently launched a whole series of measures (defined decrees save banks, save savings etc.) with clearly different treatments compared to shareholders and bondholders of the banks involved. There were some first measures in November 2015 that tended to save - as has been said - four banks in serious failure. In fact, shareholders and bondholders have not been protected at all, but rather have been deprived of all their savings, in the next decree-law there was no decisive attitude tending to compensate them with respect to malt and now with this new measure there is still a different treatment towards savers, shareholders and bondholders of the Monte dei Paschi di Siena. We honestly believe that there must be fair treatment of savers of banks involved in financial difficulties and that it is also necessary to ascertain the responsibilities (and on this we must move the Commission of Inquiry, which we hope will finally be launched); however, it is not constitutionally sustainable that there are shareholders or bondholders of some banks who have lost all their savings, others who are partially compensated, others who are protected with new and innovative formulas such as those contained in the decree-law which again calls for urgent intervention by Parliament. There must be fairness: it is one of the fundamental requirements of our Constitution towards citizens who, in similar situations, must be protected in the same way. It therefore seems obvious, clear and clear from all points of view that there are no constitutional requirements for this umpteenth decree-law that demonstrates exclusively the continuous improvisation existing at government level in trying to address a fundamental and very delicate issue such as the protection of the saver. On the other hand, total confusion prevails in government action, which has had devastating effects in relation to the confidence relationship between savers and banks. Today in our country all Italian citizens have the certainty that their savings, the savings of a lifetime, are not safe compared to mistakes or even crimes committed by those who have responsibilities in managing them. If the current government goes on in this way, I believe it will have to put in place new bank-saving measures to protect other credit institutions, with new and improvised measures, which will have nothing fair and above all uniform compared to the previous measures. We demand uniformity of treatment and protection for savers, shareholders and bondholders who are homogeneous in any case. There can be no series A or B treatment; the Constitution does not allow it, and that is why we naturally ask for a vote by Parliament to take note of this situation which is now out of control because of the precise responsibilities of the previous government and the current government (which is a photocopy of it), and which no longer knows where to go. Every measure is the result of improvisation and never represents a solution to the real problems, which have meant that savers were abandoned to themselves, at the mercy of events, without any certainty and with a single great concern, that the savings of a life can be erased within a night with a decree-law that certainly does not save their savings, but that can save the banking institutions and that tries to cover the responsibilities of those who have determined these situations in a crescendo now intolerable. I hope that Parliament will take note of this situation which is now out of control and vote for an unconstitutionality which is clear, clear, certain and must simply be ratified by Parliament's vote. [[Applause from Senators Stucchi and Bonfrisco.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-739.ana.u11	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-739.ana.u12	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-739.ana.u13	DE PETRIS (Misto-SI-SEL). Mr President, as we have already supported in the Committee on Constitutional Affairs over the past few days, we believe that the decree-law issued by the Government does not have the prerequisites of necessity and urgency. It seems almost paradoxical what I am saying, but in reality the Government has intervened - we want to emphasize this aspect - lately on a situation that has been before everyone for a very long time. So we are faced with almost a paradox: there is a necessity and urgency established and established to give life to the decree-law, but the same is issued at a delayed burst. We wanted to call it inertia, but we could use even heavier words to underline and stigmatize the attitude of the government and therefore the choices it made by delaying this intervention. Now, it is useless to hide behind roboating words such as those contained in the title of the decree-law, i.e. urgent provisions for the protection of savings in the credit sector. In fact, what is not fully guaranteed by the decree in our examination is precisely the protection of savings and savers. Of course, when the decree arrives in this Chamber we will also address certain constitutional aspects and measures contained in it, which appear to be constitutionally doubtful. First of all, we are faced with a different treatment of savers than other decrees that have intervened on the banking crises of other institutions, so it is clear to everyone that there is a full violation of the constitutional principle of equality and the principle of the protection of savings as they are delivered to us by our Constitution. Returning to the previous argument, that is to say to the inertia of the Government and therefore to the late intervention on the MPS affair, the Renzi Government has tended to sweeten the Italian banking situation with reassuring messages. Throughout the long referendary campaign, therefore for much of the past year, we have heard repeated assurances from the Government, and in particular from the Minister of the Padoan economy, concerning the undisputed solidity (as defined by the Minister and in truth these same statements reiterated a few days ago) of the Italian banking system, despite the presence of the default of four credit institutions and above all of the case of the Monte dei Paschi di Siena. Now we will have to deal with the choices made by the Decree-Law of 23 December, on which we will have to intervene on the substance. We also hope that with the adoption of a number of amendments we can arrive at very clear choices of intervention by the Government, perhaps, as we support, even reaching the nationalization of the Mount of the Paschi. The problem we are facing, as I said, is that even in the face of some uncontested facts, such as the result of the stress tests of 29 July carried out by the European Central Bank and the European Commission, which in respect of this banking institution drew an adverse scenario in which the assets were even negative of 2.23 percent (which means a scissor to the savings of the bank by the ECB for as much as 13 billion euros), the Renzi government turned its head on the other side, preferring to continue the referendary battle and avoiding to face very serious knots like those of the situation of the Monte dei Paschi. If we had intervened six months ago, we would certainly have used much less resources and the current 20 billion euros of Italian taxpayers that have been allocated (and it is not even said that they are sufficient) could have been used more usefully for investments on the hyper-urgent problems of this country (I think about the issues of work, the issues of emergencies that we have faced, such as the earthquake, and the interventions for poverty). On the other hand, we are faced with a very late response at this point. Not only that, but within this decree-law there are a number of measures that will take effect and apply much later; therefore the conditions set out in Article 77 of the Constitution, from our point of view, have also not been respected. Moreover, the Government's response seems once again increasingly focused on the rescue of banks (and perhaps, in the specific case, MPS), without putting at the centre the real question that is before us, that is, an action of unconditional protection of savers and workers of banks, which are now increasingly exposed. In the decree-law itself there is absolutely no mention of the responsibilities that have led us to the current situation; responsibilities from which are certainly not exempt exponents of the previous and the current Government, who have not been able to act with the necessary timeliness in order to protect the savings. Yesterday we took the decision to extend the urgency to all the draft laws proposing the establishment of a Commission of inquiry into this matter and we hope that the establishment of this Commission will be approved as soon as possible. In fact, another serious issue that is before everyone's eyes and that needs to be addressed already with this decree-law is for example the transparency operation, aimed at finally making known, not only to Parliament, but to all citizens and especially savers, the responsibilities of directors and all insolvent debtors, especially the large debtors. 78 percent of these sufferings are linked to the granting of loans of more than EUR 250,000. I believe that this is another of the issues that are before us and that should be dealt with immediately. We also announce, among other things, the presentation of an amendment to this decree-law precisely on transparency, because all Italians have the right to know the names of all major insolvent debtors. This also has a lot to do with the constitutional conditions, because it is clear to everyone that we risk being faced with different treatments and therefore inadequate protection especially of small savers. The constitutionality profile is therefore very questionable, as we reiterate that it is absolutely questionable that once again a decree-law has been used on the basis of the requirements of necessity and urgency referred to in Article 77 of the Constitution when the same had already appeared in the previous year, and that they are also included in the decree-laws that will instead find an application not immediate and that have the full taste of a further intervention of reform. For this reason, we confirm our negative judgment on the existence of the constitutionality of this decree-law.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-739.ana.u14	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-739.ana.u15	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-739.ana.u16	BOTTICS (M5S). Mr President, I would like to briefly retrace history: the requirements of necessity and urgency stem from certain facts made by the previous Government and the current one. We start from the transposition in November 2015 of the BRRD (Bank recovery and resolution directive), the so-called bail in; at the same time, the Renzi Government issues a decree-law for the resolution of four banks. We, at that juncture, had already sensed the need for public intervention because we understood that, even if the four banks were not recognized as systemic, their events would still lead to a worsening of the confidence of Italian citizens in our banking system. However, this is not just a matter for Italian citizens, because there is a lot of talk in this House about foreign investors. They too, seeing that Italy cannot manage the Italian banking system, that is, the fabric that should make the economy grow and the citizens themselves, could have some doubts about investing us. We therefore called for the immediate clarification of the procedures that could be carried out through the BRRD directive in order to intervene publicly. There was an answer that was not possible. Thus the decree-law of November 2015 was issued and those who paid for this decree are only the small savers. This House said that they were not small savers, but investors. However, at some point, the majority realized that perhaps we were right and that the small savers were cheated. We think, therefore, of flat-rate compensation, but when it comes to compensation it means that there is a fault because it is not recognized if there is no fault on the other side. I leave aside the issue of arbitration, which you have only managed to do today after a year that was to be ready, to dwell on the issue of flat-rate compensation that the Government decides to recognize to the extent of 80% to these small savers who have seen their savings whipped. The whole issue of the referendum on constitutional reform and the results of the stress tests come out in July 2016. We already knew in advance that the Monte dei Paschi di Siena would not stand the stress tests, because the path of the last years of the bank had however evidenced a lack of assets and liquidity; in fact, the title was falling. However, the government was not interested in putting the banking system back on its feet: it needed only a blackmail weapon. In fact, in Tuscany, Siena is the province where the yes wins (I say only to clarify some questions) and the same thing happens in Arezzo: they are the two cities in which the two banks operate. [[Applause from Senator Paglini]] You get to the referendum and you lose, but the issue of the Mount of the Paschi was already known; but there was no need and urgency at that time because you expected so much. It comes to 23 December, the antivigilia, and triggers the necessity to adopt the decree-law in which procedures are established. The decree-law in question lays down procedures whereby banks may request public support. If only it had been the determination of the procedures, it could have been adopted earlier. But no, he's expecting December 23rd. However, the need and urgency are not respected by Parliament, because we do not immediately get to work to understand, examine and then come to the conversion of the decree-law into a right text, but we are on vacation until 10 January. Thus, in the past days the decree-law, which could have been discussed in the parliamentary assemblies, is held firm. In the decree-law in question there are not only the aspects that my colleagues recently highlighted, but there is a fundamental error: I am referring to this Government, which in recent years has not been able to bring Italy back to the lustre it once had. The only need I see in this country is your resignation. [[Applause from Senators Bulgarelli and Paglini]] In fact, with your patching up a banking system you have made this country the country of urgency, since they are now urgent not only the banking system, but also the territory and the occupation. The draft law on the establishment of a Commission of Inquiry into the financial failure of the Monte dei Paschi credit institution in Siena has been incardinated in the Commission for a long time, but no one saw the need and urgency to complete its examination. In the Committee of Inquiry into the Monte dei Paschi established by the Tuscany Region we asked for the list of debtors to be public, because their names made them. However, Parliament absolutely did not see the need and urgency to give answers to the citizens. I wonder something. When the decree-laws are adopted, does this Government think of the necessity and urgency of the country, or of its necessity and urgency to remain in its place to continue to cover those banking administrations and that political part that has affected all Italian banks? In fact, I remember that there is not only the Monte dei Paschi di Siena, but there are also the four banks saved last year, the Banca Popolare di Vicenza, Veneto Banca, Banca Carige, the San Miniato Savings Bank and the cooperative credit banks. We have the whole banking system in the air and we all have to assume this responsibility, because in the last four years we have somehow tried to get you back in touch with the territory. Perhaps we have not been strong enough or perhaps you are too deaf, but this decree-law is not necessary and urgent. The premises were others and you came here because of your negligence and inability to fill these command posts. [[Applause from the M5S Group. Comments from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-739.ana.u17	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-739.ana.u18	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-739.ana.u19	MALAN (FI-PdL XVII). Mr President, representatives of the Government, ladies and gentlemen, I would have expected today the presence of Minister Pier Carlo Padoan, first of all - but not only - because there is his signature on this decree-law. I would also like to take this opportunity to say that the other signature is by the President of the Council, Mr Gentiloni, to whom I and the Forza Italia Group wish a speedy recovery. I repeat: not only for the signature that the Minister of the Economy has affixed to this decree, but for what he has declared over the past months and years on the situation of the Mount of Paschi: widely reassuring and triumphal statements that have been summarized, moreover, during a transmission of 8 January last, in a few minutes of service that have appeared as a florilegio of his completely reassuring statements on the situation of the Mount of Paschi. To be silent about what the former President of the Council Renzi said several times, in particular a year ago, on 22 January 2016: the Monte dei Paschi is healed, now investing is a business. Perhaps he should have followed these statements by the usual formula: "the present does not constitute an solicitation for savings or investment in these securities." In fact, a bank that makes such a statement, without specifying what I have specified above, would risk criminal sanctions. On the other hand, we have a former President-in-Office of the Council who said that he should invest in this bank, and those who invested found their capital reduced by more or less 90%. Therefore, what I say is not only instrumental to speak of past facts, whose consequences, in reality, are fully present in this decree, but emphasizes the first defect of this decree and that is that it comes late. If it had arrived in time, instead of being preceded by false and dangerously misleading assurances, instead of EUR 20 billion, a much lower sum would have been needed. An article by Marcello Esposito on the Republic, not just an anti-government newspaper, recalled a few days ago that, in the last six months, the Monte dei Paschi has lost 14 billion deposits, a part of which now has to be put by the State, that is by the taxpayer, with this decree-law. It's very serious that he's been put through all this time. Another aspect of the strategy concerning banks, of which the Government has also taken a great deal of care (I remember that it considered it a priority to make an intervention, very questionable, on popular banks, instead of intervening where there was the problem), is in general the tightening of the rules on banks, which have been put in further difficulty because many depositors have fled and not only from the Mount of Paschi, with the result that the crisis has become further aggravated. This was really a strategic mistake and therapy. Moreover, the overhasty and insufficiently explained reception of the famous bail in mechanism meant that many, especially from the banks that had the feeling of some difficulty, fled. The result is that the banks that were already in difficulty have ended up in serious difficulty and now it is up to the taxpayer to repair them: really a very serious mistake that demonstrates the fundamental insufficiency of the banking policy of the previous Government and, as far as the competence of the present Government. That is why the Minister for Economic Affairs should have been present, but perhaps he is making some other statements to mislead other savers. There is another problem in this decree. Everyone will now say how it should be changed, but I remember that, without the vote that the Forza Italia Group gave (not alone, but together with the majority groups), a vote that we took the responsibility to grant and that allows a deviation from the balance of the budget, today we could not talk about any decree: neither a decree-law beautiful, nor a decree-law bad or a decree-law that likes either, because without that vote this decree-law could not be done. However, savers would be severely damaged in their savings and the crisis could extend, with domino effect, to other banks and other realities of our country. This must therefore be borne in mind. The attitude of responsibility of the Forza Italia Group has helped to ensure that today we can talk about a decree. To change it for the better or for the worse, it will then be the job, in part, of the Government which, unfortunately, has not felt to consult those involved in this taking of responsibility and, in part, of the work that we will do in these weeks. I would remind you, however, that since it is a decree-law, it is in force in the meantime. Therefore, if there are errors, they are reflected right now in reality and it will be difficult to correct them. Another problem of this decree is the inequality of treatment with other banks that have been in difficulty; a very serious disparity, denounced, for example, by the mayor of Arezzo Alessandro Ghinelli, who emphasized how the previous decree on banks created serious difficulties (in particular, he referred to the reality of his city). Then, however, today we find ourselves providing much higher sums to save the Mount of the Paschi. We know from the data that, in the case of the four banks that were previously saved, savers have for now only been refreshed for 10% of the sums that they had committed; here we are talking about much higher percentage amounts. Meanwhile, it's an injustice in itself. Secondly, the situation can lead to appeals for a clear defect of constitutionality against Article 3 of the Constitution, which provides for equality between citizens and, therefore, also exposes the State to the risk of having to raise more money for situations that are not covered in this decree-law. However, we are not talking here about the usual figures which fill the newspapers, especially when it comes to constitutional bodies. We wanted to make a radical reform of the Constitution to save 50 million, and then here we talk of 20 billion as if they were peanuts; 20 billion as they risk increasing with this unequal treatment. Therefore, this is a very significant defect in the measure in question, which will certainly have to be considered. Another fundamental problem of this decree-law is that in it there is no trace of measures requiring the Government to account for how this sum will be used. We are talking about EUR 20 billion coming out of the state budget immediately, with a curious formula. While, ordinarily, when there is a guarantee fund, the exit to the state budget takes place when this guarantee really has to intervene. Here, instead, the 20 billion come out immediately, and therefore increases the public debt with all the consequences also on the financial strategy of our debt, and then the government will use them. We know that the figure relative to the Mount of the Paschi will be between the six (we hope) and the eight (theme) billions, but the others? It is absolutely necessary that a mechanism be introduced in this decree, with amendments, because there must be, on the part of the Government, the duty, with precise guarantees, to report on how these sums are used. Most of these rules are derogations: not to secondary rules, but to the civil code and to fundamental aspects contained in the laws of the sector. Moreover, these derogations are largely left to the discretion of choices that depend on the Government or are made directly by the Government. The emergency situation requires at least some of these choices, but it is essential that the Government report on them and explain the criteria. Another point that we want to stress is that it is necessary to introduce (and we think this is the most appropriate place) rules requiring the disclosure of the names and identities of companies or private individuals who are large insolvent debtors of banks, which are then helped at the expense of the citizen. The employees of the state, the elected by the people, must account in detail for what they take. There we are talking about tens of thousands of euros. Since we are talking about billions here, it will be good to be at least as strict. At the same time, we cannot forget that if there have been loans whose repayment is in distress, there is also someone who has granted these loans and who is more guilty, because even more responsible. Of this it would be good to have contimacy. It is not possible, for example, that in this decree it is established that all those who bought subordinated bonds - and this is also questionable - are given for fraud without the fraudster. If the State has to intervene to refuse those who bought securities that, following the civil code, have lost much of their value today, it assumes that this title was a scam; but if there is the scam and if it is expected that the State should refuse the scam, there must be the scamster. On this point we must make it clear and we will therefore vote in favour of abstaining, as in the preliminary votes we had for the establishment of a Committee of Inquiry into the banks in crisis, declaring our good will towards the effort that is being made to save save savers, but at the same time expressing all our doubts about the shortcomings of this decree, the first of which is its lateness, which has made it considerably more expensive. [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-739.ana.u20	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-739.ana.u21	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-739.ana.u22	Mr Barani (ALA-SCLP). Mr President, yesterday our Group voted in favour of the proposal to set up a Committee of Inquiry into the financial disruption of the Monte dei Paschi credit institution in Siena, which is obviously the subject of the conversion of the Decree-Law on urgent provisions for the protection of savings in the credit sector. Too many events that concerned that institute are still wrapped in mystery, including the apparent suicide (but then was it really so?) of an executive crashed by Rocca Salimbeni. In the illustration, even yesterday, of the various proposals for amendments made by colleagues to the bill are listed some episodes that come up again with this decree and that must be mentioned, but the story is much more complex. It concerns ties that go back even further and that have invested the entire Communist Party leadership group, then PDS, DS and now PD at both local and national level. Some operations, in fact, could not have been carried out if there had not been widespread complicity that invested the same Executive, when precisely that party had responsibilities of government. I cannot forget that famous act of address, which is the milestone, orginal sin - which is unique in the history of Via XX Settembre - when the Treasury Minister - Vincenzo Visco - intervened heavily to direct the appointment of the new president of the institute in the person of Giuseppe Mussari: only not Sienese to assume that post that in the previous 500 years had been the right of a local citizen. When we all spoke yesterday in favour of the establishment of the Commission of Inquiry, then, it was in order to be able to write and take out of the walls of the Grand Duchy a narration that remained far too far in the shadows, or perhaps it would be better to say under a T-shirt. The maneuvers started since the 1970s by characters unknown to the general public, but not to the nomenclature of that party, will be illuminated. It was Silvano Andriani, one of the bank's advisors, who made known in Rome the potential of an institution which, in previous years, had only a local importance. Silvano Andriani, before being elected as a senator, had been the secretary of the CESPE: those who have white hair like me remember that it was the center of economic policy studies of the Communist Party. A nursery of young paintings where at least two current ministers - Pier Carlo Padoan and Claudio De Vincenti - took the first steps. This is to prove how long the canvas of that story is. Nor do I dwell on the most recent events that this decree clearly sets out. In financial circles, there is a persistent talk of a possible exchange at European level. The Commission turns a blind eye to the rescue measures in place, in open violation of the rules of bail-in in order to avoid lighting the headlights on the real sick person in Europe, i.e. Deutsche Bank with its load of derivatives, the valuation of which has been left to the discretion of the bank itself, while some market operations have been misjudged in order to strengthen its capital stock. Already this hint shows that the problem of the structure of the Italian banking system goes far beyond the case of the Monte dei Paschi di Siena. That is why we will vote against this decree at the moment: we believe it is a demonstration - if ever needed - of the request made by the President of the ABI, that is to say to make known the name of the first hundred debtors who did not carry out the repayment of the debt contracts and who consequently fed the non-performing loans, which represent the ball at the foot of the entire Italian banking system. One of my group colleagues, Senator Milo, said that it would be necessary to nationalize the companies that took the money from the state and did not return it, not give the money to the Mount of Paschi to cover these holes that they have created dolly. The problems arise in general disinterest: I would like to remind you that as early as 2012, five years ago, in a report by the Italian Monetary Fund on financial stability, it was with great concern that Italian banks had credit in distress for a value that placed them in third place in the international ranking, immediately after Greece and Ireland. This is a complaint that obviously did not shake those who had to worry. These are just a few reasons to demonstrate the need to extend this decree to the whole banking system, not just the Monte dei Paschi. Too many things remain mysterious, starting from a supervision, that of the Bank of Italy, which has operated with discretion and intermittentity: fierce with some small banks - I quote one, the Florentine Cooperative Credit - but completely understanding and obviously complicit in all other situations, including the Monte dei Paschi di Siena, to the point of determining the judicial implications then ended with a non-place to proceed. In our proposal, therefore, today we believe that our objective coincides with that indicated by the President of the ABI: to make known the names of the great profiteers of a resource such as savings, specifically protected by Article 47 of our Constitution. That is why our vote will be against, precisely because the text does not respect this Rule 47. We must separate the rotten apples (few) from the good ones (many) in order to avoid possible contamination and contamination. We are convinced that most Italian banks are solid and able to fulfil their essential function, which is to finance the economic development of the country. In order to preserve this function, however, it is necessary not only to put off the game those who have taken advantage of the public good faith, but to bring out before it is too late those problems that can still be dealt with. This task cannot be left to the Authority which has shown all their limitations; Parliament must be invested in it and this decree must also be made drinkable and extendable to the entire Italian banking problem. I should like to conclude with one last important point, which perhaps, Mr President, is the most important one: the repayment of subordinated bonds must also be assessed. The reimbursement must not be made on the list, because at these moments there have been so many speculators who in the secondary market have raided bonds in great quantity and since with this decree, the State covers them 100 percent, they realize unimaginable margins of interest; these are the speculators that we cannot afford to refund: we cannot refund a hundred percent who bought and raked the bonds on the secondary market paying them practically nothing. Should we do this because they're friends with friends? There have been incredible interests here with complicity, as I said before. In that system there was the CESPE, an economic policy foundation of the PCI in which two ministers grew up. Nobody's a fool here. So we have to set a date for bonds, for example on June 30: those after that date we have to consider in the hands of speculators who do not know what current they are (but I can imagine), who have raked at zero cost to have a hundred. That is why we, unlike our colleagues in Forza Italia, will not abstain, but we will vote against it. [[Applause from the ALA-SCCLP Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-739.ana.u23	We greet the delegation of students and teachers of the Technical Institute of Commerce and Liceo delle scienze umani (Liceo delle scienze umani) "Angelo Poliziano" in Rome, which is following our work. Welcome to the Senate. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-739.ana.u24	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-739.ana.u25	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-739.ana.u26	MANCUSO (AP (Ncd-CpI)). Mr President, it seems to me never like this time we can say that the night brought advice. Until yesterday in the Committee on Constitutional Affairs it seemed that on the need to vote in favour of the conditions of necessity and urgency of this measure we were all, or almost, in agreement. If there has been no total sharing, there certainly has not been the reflections and speeches I have heard in this House today, which mainly concern the substance of the measure. I have not heard much from the point of view of the reasons for accepting the conditions of necessity and urgency. I believe that today's debate has been a bit early in the next debate, but we must now confine ourselves to approving and accepting these assumptions. It seems to me that in this case there are all the reasons and that they are absolutely serious. Chapter I of the measure regulates the procedure for granting the State guarantee on the liabilities of banks having their registered office in Italy. Chapter II deals with asset strengthening interventions, and if these interventions are not done with due urgency, I believe that we can also frustrate the intervention of the Government in aid and support to the banking system. Then there is the need for a reorganization, a revision and a total reflection on the need - as was said yesterday - to verify the behaviour of those who have the responsibilities to monitor and supervise the banking system, this is another speech. Therefore, I repeat the validity of my proposal to the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and call on the House to reject the proposals before us today. [[Applause from the AP Group (Ncd-CpI).]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-739.ana.u27	We shall now proceed to the vote. Verification of CRIME quorum (M5S). We're asking for a quorum check. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators, by electronic procedure. (The request is supported). I ask colleagues to take their seats and invite those who have not yet withdrawn their cards to hurry to do so. I therefore call on the senators to make their presence known by electronic means. (Follows the quorum check.) The Senate has a quorum. Resumption of the debate on the resolution pursuant to Rule 78 (3) of the Rules of Procedure on the draft law n. 2629 PRESIDENT. I put to the vote the favourable opinion expressed by the first permanent Commission, pursuant to Rule 78 of the Rules of Procedure, regarding the existence of the conditions required by the second paragraph of Article 77 of the Constitution, as well as the requirements laid down by the legislation in force, with regard to Decree-Law No 237. It's approved. CRIMI (M5S). I would ask for a counterproof because we have been abstaining and against it. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I order the doors closed. We proceed to counter-test by electronic procedure. It's approved.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-739.ana.u28	The next item is the debate on draft law No 2498, which has already been approved by the House of Deputies. The rapporteur, Senator Compagna, has requested authorisation to carry out the oral report. No comments were made and the request was accepted. I therefore call the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-739.ana.u29	Mr President, Azerbaijan, which is a member of the Euro-Atlantic Partnership, occupies an area of great strategic and political importance, but it is also a crossroads of illicit trafficking, the proceeds of which often fuel criminal activities of various kinds on European territory. In the context of bilateral agreements with Azerbaijan, Parliament recently approved a draft law - now pending publication - on a Cooperation Agreement in the field of defence. The agreement we are examining today consists of a preamble and 12 articles; after defining the respective Ministries of the Interior as competent authorities, it identifies and defines the different types of crime (from organised crime to terrorism, to drug trafficking and human beings) to which it applies. The cooperation provides for the exchange of information and experience, the search for fugitives and missing persons, the identification of residents without authorisation and the application of modern technological means for combating trafficking in persons and migrants. Requests for assistance may be rejected only if they undermine national security or are contrary to national law. Article 8, in particular, defines the limits and levels of protection relating to the use of the information and documents transmitted in the context of bilateral cooperation, providing for use only for the purposes of the Agreement, unless otherwise agreed between the Parties. The bill of ratification consists of four articles. The economic burdens for Italy are quantified in total in approximately 60,000 euros per year. The Agreement does not present any profiles of incompatibility with national legislation, Community law or other international obligations entered into by our country, and is indeed in line with the United Nations Conventions on the fight against illicit drug trafficking and organised crime. In conclusion, the Commission authorizes me to propose to the House that this measure be approved by the House. [[Applause from Senator D'Ambrosio Lettieri.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-739.ana.u30	I declare the general discussion open. He's enlisted to speak Senator Stucchi. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-739.ana.u31	Mr President, this is an important agreement and I do not think it is appropriate to give it up. It is right to point out that Mr Compagna's report has given the necessary explanations to the House in order to understand the scope of this ratification. I merely say that we have a favourable attitude to the final vote and I will give the reasons for that in the explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-739.ana.u32	Senator Sangalli is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-739.ana.u33	Mr President, I would like to announce the vote in favour of the Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-739.ana.u34	The general debate is closed. I would like to say that the Presidency - and it is being distributed - has received the opinion of the 5th standing Commission on the draft law before us, which will be published in an annex to today's report. I put to the vote Rule 1. It's approved. We shall now proceed to the vote on Rule 2. GAETTI (M5S). We call for the vote to be taken by simultaneous ballot by electronic means. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Rule 2. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the vote on Rule 3. GAETTI (M5S). We call for the vote to be taken by simultaneous ballot by electronic means. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Rule 3. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the vote on Rule 4. Verification of the CANDIANI quorum (LN-Aut). We're asking for a quorum check. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators, by electronic procedure. (The request is supported). I therefore call on the senators to make their presence known by electronic means. (Follows the quorum check.) The Senate has a quorum. Resumption of the debate on the draft law No 2948 PRESIDENT. I put to the vote Rule 4. It's approved.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-739.ana.u35	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-739.ana.u36	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-739.ana.u37	Stitches (LN-Aut). Mr President, as I have pointed out at this stage, I have reserved an indication of the reasons for our Group's vote in favour and, if you will allow me, for the sake of the economy of our work, I would hand over the written text of my speech to the Presidency, announcing the support of the Lega Nord Group. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-739.ana.u38	The Presidency shall authorise it accordingly.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-739.ana.u39	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-739.ana.u40	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-739.ana.u41	AMORUSO (ALA-SCLP). Mr President, I would like to take this opportunity to make a single explanation of vote on the four measures we are voting on this morning, which are all more or less about the same subjects. My explanation of vote therefore applies to everyone and in particular to the agreements between the Italian Republic and Azerbaijan, between the Italian Republic and the State of Israel, between the Italian Republic and the Republic of Croatia and between the Italian Republic and the State of Qatar; this is because all four measures in various respects concern forms of collaboration between the Italian State and other countries in the fight against organised crime, terrorism and illegal emigration. There is a whole complex work that is done by the Italian State, in particular by the Ministry of the Interior and the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, with other States to counter these very serious phenomena in some very critical areas of the world. For these reasons, the vote of the ALA-Civic Chosen Group for the Liberal and Popular Constitution will be in favour of all four measures in this area that we are examining.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-739.ana.u42	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-739.ana.u43	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-739.ana.u44	LUCIDES (M5S). Mr President, I am voting in favour of the 5 Star Movement.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-739.ana.u45	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-739.ana.u46	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-739.ana.u47	GAETTI (M5S). Mr President, we are calling for the vote to be taken simultaneously by electronic means.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-739.ana.u48	I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I refer to the nominal vote by simultaneous ballot of the bill as a whole. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B).
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-739.ana.u49	The next item is the debate on draft law No 2499, which has already been approved by the House of Deputies. The rapporteur, Senator Compagna, has requested authorisation to carry out the oral report. No comments were made and the request was accepted. I therefore call the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-739.ana.u50	Mr President, this text concerns an important aspect, as Mr Amoruso mentioned, namely Italy's cooperation in the fight against organised crime, in particular with regard to the prevention, detection and repression of crime and the detection of criminals. Hence, a joint action between the Italian authorities and the Government of the State of Qatar. The text consists of a preamble and 11 articles and aims to define a legal instrument that regulates bilateral police cooperation from the strategic and operational point of view, allowing to intensify relations between the counterparts bodies of the two countries. In defining the objectives of the Memorandum, Article 1 refers to bilateral cooperation in the fight against crime, in general and in all cases where crime prevention and repression, as well as the detection of criminals, require joint action between the authorities of the two countries. The Agreement aims, in particular, to combat, through police cooperation, illicit trafficking in drugs and weapons, terrorism, organised crime, illegal immigration and other offences in some way related to organised crime. Cooperation shall involve the exchange of information and assistance in the scientific and technical development of investigations. The following Articles govern cases in which requests for assistance may be refused, the exchange of meetings and visits and the protection measures for the protection of personal data. The competent authorities are the Department of Public Security of the Ministry of Interior for Italy and the Department for International Cooperation for Qatar. The draft law consists of four articles relating respectively to the authorization to ratify, the order of execution, the financial coverage of the relevant charges and the entry into force of the text. The total costs are about 50,000 euros per year. The analysis of the compatibility of the intervention does not indicate any criticality. The text takes account of the provisions contained, inter alia, in the Single Convention on Narcotic Drugs of 1961 and in the UN Convention on Combating Transnational Organised Crime of 2000. In conclusion, the Commission gives me a mandate to propose to this House the adoption of this measure.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-739.ana.u51	I declare the general discussion open. He's enlisted to speak Senator Stucchi. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-739.ana.u52	Mr President, on this ratification, I believe that a brief reflection is needed. Of course, the fight against crime is a matter for everyone on the same side but, because we are at a delicate time, we must pay attention to measures such as this, and above all we must understand what are the subjects with which we interact, when agreements of this kind are signed. These are not B-series measures, but measures that have an impact on citizens. This type of ratification certainly has a positive impact on relations between the two countries, but perhaps it is necessary to ask for a greater effort in terms of clarity from the interlocutor, in this case Qatar, with whom we make this agreement, with regard to certain attitudes taken in the past. I am referring to initiatives that have caused damage, damage or even tragedy in other parts of the world. It is necessary to understand whether, in fact, those who sign an agreement with us are free from this type of support to those who have hostile intentions or there has been a connivance, which must be absolutely condemned and must no longer be there in the future. When we talk about Qatar, we talk about a state that supports the spread of the Islamic religion in many other parts of the world, in addition to the countries where it originated and often does so by making available a lot of money, many millions of euros. Also in this regard we should understand what the real intentions are: is it only a question of facilitating the spread of a cult or is there something else behind it? These are concerns that I considered right to resign, but highlighting that the scope of the measure is certainly positive and that we are faced with a country that has given signals that, at least in the last period, make us think well about the future. Our concern is one; someone may think it excessive, but it has led our Group to abstain on the individual articles and on the final vote, a position which I pre-announce here and which I will repeat in the explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-739.ana.u53	The general debate is closed. I would like to say that the Presidency - and it is being distributed - has received the opinion of the 5th standing Commission on the draft law before us, which will be published in an annex to today's report. We shall proceed to the vote on Rule 1. CHAMPOLILLO (M5S). We call for the vote to be taken by simultaneous ballot by electronic means. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Article 1. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). I put to the vote Rule 2. It's approved. We shall now proceed to the vote on Rule 3. CHAMPOLILLO (M5S). We call for the vote to be taken by simultaneous ballot by electronic means. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Rule 3. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the vote on Rule 4. GAETTI (M5S). We call for the vote to be taken by simultaneous ballot by electronic means. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Rule 4. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B).
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-739.ana.u54	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-739.ana.u55	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-739.ana.u56	Stitches (LN-Aut). Mr President, since I have already pointed out some of the concerns that led us to cast an abstention vote on the individual articles, we also confirm this abstention vote as regards the final vote on the measure. I would ask you to be able to hand over the text of my speech, which reiterates in a much more precise way the concerns that have just been expressed and I repeat the abstention vote of our Group. PRESIDENT. - The debate is The Presidency authorizes you to hand over the text of your speech, Senator Stucchi.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-739.ana.u57	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-739.ana.u58	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-739.ana.u59	Rossi Luciano (AP (Ncd-CpI)). Mr President, Mr Compagna's illustration has been timely and detailed. There is no doubt that the subject, also in the light of the reflections that Mr Stucchi has raised, goes in the direction of greater knowledge and deepening. However, in order to give better answers in the future, I think it is appropriate not only to share, but also to strongly support this bill and, in particular, the text contained in Article 1. Consequently, the vote of the People's Area Group will certainly be in favour. [[Applause from the AP Group (Ncd-CpI).]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-739.ana.u60	I recall that in the examination of bill No 2498 Senator Amoruso anticipated the favorable vote of his Group also on the bill under consideration.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-739.ana.u61	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-739.ana.u62	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-739.ana.u63	LUCIDES (M5S). Mr President, I am voting against the 5 Star Movement Group.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-739.ana.u64	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-739.ana.u65	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-739.ana.u66	Sangalli (PD). Mr President, I am voting in favour of the Democratic Party. To justify our vote, I would like to refer to Article 1, on which there has been a very wide convergence: the issues that are being discussed between the two states are cooperation against illicit drug trafficking, terrorism, organised crime, all types of counterfeiting and smuggling, money laundering, credit card offences, cybercrime and Internet crime, crimes committed in ports, airports and other crossings and illegal immigration. I think it is useful for this Memorandum of Understanding to be adopted and therefore the Democratic Party's vote on the measure will be in favour.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-739.ana.u67	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-739.ana.u68	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-739.ana.u69	MALAN (FI-PdL XVII). Mr President, I rise to announce the vote of abstention of the Forza Italia Group on the measure. The aims, as President Sangalli said, are very good, the problem is the subject with which the Agreement is made. I believe that, because of the implications that there have been on the part of that State with organisations which, in fact, this instrument aims to combat, it would have been more appropriate to have a substantial and political deepening before ratification. Therefore, we will abstain.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-739.ana.u70	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-739.ana.u71	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-739.ana.u72	Mr Calderoli (LN-Aut). We call for the vote to be taken by simultaneous ballot by electronic means.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-739.ana.u73	I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I refer to the nominal vote by simultaneous ballot of the bill as a whole. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B).
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-739.ana.u74	The next item is the debate on draft law No 2027. The rapporteur, Senator Pegorer, has requested authorisation to carry out the oral report. No comments were made and the request was accepted. I therefore call the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-739.ana.u75	Mr President, the draft law before this House brings about the ratification and implementation of the Agreement signed between Italy and Croatia on cross-border police cooperation. The agreement establishes the commitment of the two countries to develop a more effective action to combat cross-border crime, with particular reference to illegal immigration, trafficking in human beings and drug trafficking. The aim is to create a legal instrument to regulate police cooperation on a strategic and operational level, as well as to strengthen relations between their counterparts in the two countries in charge of public security. The Agreement, consisting of a preamble and 17 articles, identifies in the respective Ministries of the Interior the authorities responsible for the implementation of the Agreement. After specifying the areas of competence by territory, the understanding defines the modalities of cross-border cooperation by providing for the exchange of information, links for communications and telecommunications, harmonisation of operational activity, education and vocational training. The subsequent articles of the Agreement govern an exchange of police officers, joint working groups, the sending of liaison officers and the coordination of operational activities. A specific chapter is dedicated to the protection of the confidentiality of personal data. The draft law of ratification consists of four articles, which respectively provide for the authorisation of ratification, order of execution, financial coverage and entry into force. The economic burden for Italy is quantified in total in about 120,000 euros per year, ascribable to the expenses for the diary and short-term posting of the staff involved, as well as for the activity of training and education. I would like to point out to the Assembly that the Foreign Affairs Committee has approved two amendments to the original text following the indications made by the relevant Budget Committee to shift the financial coverage to 2017 and to update the rules on coverage to the reform of the accounting law that came into force last September. The Agreement does not present any profiles of incompatibility with national legislation, Community law or other international obligations entered into by our country, starting with the United Nations Convention against Organised Crime and its Protocols. In conclusion, Mr President, it is proposed that this measure be approved.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-739.ana.u76	I declare the general discussion open. You are registered to speak Senator Stucchi.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-739.ana.u77	Mr President, at yesterday's sitting of the Commission, Senator Pegorer referred to this measure and I have to say that in his report this morning he also made a good statement on its content. I fully agree with your report and I would just like to focus on one aspect, namely the emphasis you have made on the specific chapter on the confidentiality of personal data. This is a very topical issue, which is also present today in the newspapers and fortunately the Agreement contains a passage dedicated to this issue. This is an important thing that I believe should be stressed in this House, and I would like to reiterate the sharing of the content of the measure.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-739.ana.u78	The general debate is closed. I would like to say that the Presidency - and it is being distributed - has received the opinion of the 5th standing Commission on the draft law before us, which will be published in an annex to today's report. We shall proceed to the vote on Rule 1. CHAMPOLILLO (M5S). We call for the vote to be taken by simultaneous ballot by electronic means. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Article 1. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the vote on Rule 2. GAETTI (M5S). We call for the vote to be taken by simultaneous ballot by electronic means. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Rule 2. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the vote on Rule 3. GAETTI (M5S). We call for the vote to be taken by simultaneous ballot by electronic means. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Rule 3. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). I put to the vote Rule 4. It's approved.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-739.ana.u79	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-739.ana.u80	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-739.ana.u81	Stitches (LN-Aut). Mr President, I repeat our Group's vote in favour of this measure. I just want to say that we will need a further agreement or agreement with Croatia to address other issues relating to the Balkan area, connected to Italy in a more than contiguous way, and which have direct consequences for our country.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-739.ana.u82	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-739.ana.u83	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-739.ana.u84	BERTOROTTA (M5S). Mr President, I would like to say a few words about this agreement, starting from the Syrian crisis, which can undoubtedly be defined as the mother of all migratory emergencies in Europe from 2011 onwards, in addition to the Libyan crisis, which would be better defined as military aggression to a sovereign country with the aim of annihilating the institutions and promoting chaos. Both crises affect migratory flows, but in this case I will refer to the Syrian crisis for obvious reasons of geography of migratory flows to Europe. This crisis has generated a huge flow of refugees, of which more and more are heading to Europe. Faced with the problems raised by the above, the political position of Croatia and the other countries of Eastern Europe has been a total contrast to the distribution of migrant quotas, effectively weighing the reception on countries like ours and Greece. Croatia has, moreover, repeatedly closed its borders, effectively creating significant emergency situations for both neighbouring states and for Europe in general. The problem, Mr President, is therefore not the agreement itself, but the political signal that we give to Croatia, at a time when this country, in contrast to others, has frequent closures of its borders and at European level it plays in a field contrary to our national interest, since a general closure of the borders of the European countries (as I would like to remind you - Zagreb hopes) would leave migrants on Italian territory and therefore aggravate the reception system that already makes water from all sides and has been repeatedly soiled of corruption and evil, as we know and as many colleagues of the PD well know, with the cases of capital mafia and the CARA of Mineo. Mr President, we are talking a lot about irregular immigration from the Mediterranean (about 150,000 arrivals on average per year) when millions of people move from the Republics of Eastern Europe every year from areas where a worker's salary is about 200 euros. I think it is clear that something is not working. You call it integration, but in my opinion we are faced with a much more impressive migration process that is destroying, one after the other, all the social and working achievements which have been laboriously achieved with the struggle of our grandparents and fathers. The repeated actions to close the border by Croatia and the support for a European policy proposal to manage quotas for the redistribution of migrants that harm both directly and indirectly the Italian interest are the reasons that lead the 5 Star Movement to vote against this Agreement and I invite colleagues from other political groups to join and give an unequivocal political signal to those who work to block migrants in the first port countries like ours. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-739.ana.u85	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-739.ana.u86	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-739.ana.u87	Rossi Luciano (AP (Ncd-CpI)). Mr President, I believe that Mr Pegorer's illustration has been timely and there is no doubt that good neighbourly relations with Croatia are fundamental to us. For these and other reasons, I can anticipate the positive vote of the People's Area Group.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-739.ana.u88	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-739.ana.u89	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-739.ana.u90	Sangalli (PD). Mr President, the Democratic Group will vote in favour of this agreement, but let us not hide that it must be one of the first steps in a policy that is very careful in relation to the whole of the Balkans, both in terms of migration flows and in view of a process of stabilisation of the Balkans themselves. Foreign and international policy presupposes that we start from agreements and not from clashes: the agreement serves to build new agreements. That is why we shall be voting in favour of the draft law when we examine it. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I recall that in the examination of bill No 2498 Senator Amoruso anticipated the favorable vote of his Group also on the bill under consideration.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-739.ana.u91	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-739.ana.u92	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-739.ana.u93	GAETTI (M5S). We call for the vote to be taken by simultaneous ballot by electronic means.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-739.ana.u94	I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I refer to the nominal vote by simultaneous ballot of the bill as a whole. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B).
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-739.ana.u95	The next item is the debate on draft law No 2186. The rapporteur, Senator Corsini, asked for permission to carry out the oral report. No comments were made and the request was accepted. I therefore call the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-739.ana.u96	Mr President, my colleague, Senator Amoruso, has already outlined the meaning and purpose of this measure, but with a view to a more detailed assessment, I will say that this understanding responds to the need to improve operational cooperation between the security forces of the two countries, in order to ensure the maintenance of mutual security and to prevent and combat transnational crime and terrorism. The Agreement, which consists of a preamble and 15 articles, identifies as competent authorities the Department of Public Security of the Ministry of the Interior, for Italy, and the Ministry of Public Security, for Israel. Among the areas of cooperation (Article 2), organised crime, drug trafficking, illegal migration, trafficking in persons and arms, as well as economic offences and terrorism are included. The text therefore defines the modalities for the conduct of bilateral cooperation, including the exchange of information and operational practices, the conduct of joint operations to support information and investigative initiatives, as well as the exchange of data on suspects and criminal organisations operating in the two territories. The following Articles govern the arrangements for requests for assistance and cases in order to refuse such requests, in situations detrimental to the sovereignty, security and public order of either party. Some articles are therefore devoted to the protection of witnesses and their family members, limits to the use of personal data and the posting of security experts. The understanding also provides for the possibility for the competent authorities to conclude implementing agreements, regulates the management of ordinary expenses and regulates the arrangements for the settlement of possible interpretative or application disputes of the Agreement, the duration, entry into force and the modalities for its possible amendment. The draft law consists of four articles relating to the authorisation, ratification, order of implementation, financial coverage and entry into force of the text. The economic burdens for Italy are quantified in total in about 120,000 euros per year. The analysis of the compatibility of the intervention does not indicate any constitutional problems or conflicts with the European Union's legal system. The Agreement, although there are no formal references in the preamble, appears to be compatible with Italy's international obligations and, in particular, takes into account the substance of the provisions contained in the United Nations Conventions on the fight against drugs and terrorism and against transnational organised crime. In conclusion, it is proposed that the Assembly approve this measure.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-739.ana.u97	I declare the general discussion open. He's enlisted to speak Senator Stucchi. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-739.ana.u98	Mr President, Mr Corsini, as a good professor, gave a perfect explanation of the content of this ratification, which was also the subject of work in the Commission yesterday afternoon. I believe that the aim of this ratification is acceptable and, therefore, without wasting any more time on the economy of our work, we are already in favour of the North League's vote on this measure, on the articles and on the final vote. [[Applause from Senator Crosio.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-739.ana.u99	I would like to say that the Presidency - and it is being distributed - has received the opinion of the 5th standing Commission on the draft law before us, which will be published in an annex to today's report. We shall proceed to the vote on Rule 1. CHAMPOLILLO (M5S). We call for the vote to be taken by simultaneous ballot by electronic means. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Article 1. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the vote on Rule 2. GAETTI (M5S). We call for the vote to be taken by simultaneous ballot by electronic means. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Rule 2. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the vote on Rule 3. GAETTI (M5S). We call for the vote to be taken by simultaneous ballot by electronic means. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Rule 3. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the vote on Rule 4. GAETTI (M5S). We call for the vote to be taken by simultaneous ballot by electronic means. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Rule 4. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B).
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-739.ana.u100	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-739.ana.u101	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-739.ana.u102	Stitches (LN-Aut). Mr President, I would just like to reiterate the support of the Lega Nord Group for the measure.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-739.ana.u103	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-739.ana.u104	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-739.ana.u105	BERTOROTTA (M5S). Mr President, we cannot help but say a few words about Israel and the agreements we make with this country. This Agreement, signed in 2013, replaces a previous Convention of 2005. It provides for a total expenditure of more than EUR 120,000. There is provision for a series of training courses and exchanges of information which, in my opinion, is of no use in Italy, because we do not face threats similar to those faced by Israel or, let alone, we are in the presence of morphologically homogeneous territories. It is also worrying to cooperate in the management of public order at major events and mass events. Our police forces are perfectly trained to deal with these kinds of events and we do not understand why we should spend more money to cooperate in an area that strictly concerns the internal public order of their respective countries. Moreover, there is a great difference between the crimes being punished in the Middle East country and those being punished in our country. To give just one example, we could refer to criminal legislation on minors, especially Palestinians, compared to the protection provided in our country, but the differences do not stop here, of course. We therefore believe that the agreement signed in 2005 is already sufficient to guarantee cooperation on the security of their respective countries, without aggravating the state of additional expenses which - I repeat - in our opinion are essentially useless in terms of both updating our staff, and of threats that our country has to face. I therefore announce the 5 Star Movement Group's vote against this ratification.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-739.ana.u106	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-739.ana.u107	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-739.ana.u108	Rossi Luciano (AP (Ncd-CpI)). Mr President, I would like to speak in anticipation of the vote firmly in support of the Group of the People's Area, by taking the distance from what my colleague from the 5 Star Movement said. In fact, it is not about expenses, but about investments in security and there is no doubt that when we talk about the issues of security and defence of the whole world, starting from our country, we cannot think of defending only our borders without imagining that we are also protagonists of the international scenario. The vote of the People's Area Group will therefore be in favour of ratification.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-739.ana.u109	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-739.ana.u110	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-739.ana.u111	MALAN (FI-PdL XVII). Mr President, I too am speaking to vote in favour of the Forza Italia Group, stressing that the State of Israel manages the emergency and the fight against terrorism, attacks and the launch of missiles every day. It is a country that has invented a system of defense through which the continuous launches of missiles, which come from the territories that have been mentioned and of which other aspects are always felt without ever talking about this, are to a great extent neutralized. Unfortunately, given the times that our country, like others, faces, could be very useful. It would be useful at least to collaborate with a country that has this extraordinary, daily experience of respect for human rights and the defence of the security of citizens. [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-739.ana.u112	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-739.ana.u113	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-739.ana.u114	Sangalli (PD). Mr President, I would like to stress that this is an important agreement which is part of a very tense situation in the Middle East. It is ratified a few days away by a terrible attack that has struck Israel and that people and that Government we must express our united solidarity, as well as our gratitude for the commitment to the fight against terrorism that that country is called to carry out and that it carries out by giving everyone lessons on how to do it. If relations and cooperation with that country are intensified, even in a situation that is hoped for greater relaxation of the Middle East area and in relations with Palestine, we can only be satisfied and content. I therefore vote in favour of the Group of the Party of European Socialists for the arguments that are exactly opposite to those of those who vote against. [[Applause from the PD and FI-PdL Group XVII]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-739.ana.u115	I recall that in the examination of bill No 2498 Senator Amoruso anticipated the favorable vote of his Group also on the bill under consideration.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-739.ana.u116	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-739.ana.u117	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-739.ana.u118	GAETTI (M5S). We call for the vote to be taken by simultaneous ballot by electronic means.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-739.ana.u119	I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I refer to the nominal vote by simultaneous ballot of the bill as a whole. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). We note that in the previous vote Senator Carraro wanted to vote in favour.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-739.ana.u120	The next item is the debate on draft law No 2194. The rapporteur, Senator Amoruso, requested authorisation to carry out the oral report. No comments were received, the request was accepted. I therefore call the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-739.ana.u121	Mr President, this Convention responds to the need to regulate the tax aspects of economic relations between the two countries in a more efficient and balanced manner. The agreement follows the model of the OECD Tax Convention, which has been the basis of many agreements with other countries, including the one that we will shortly examine concerning the Philippines, and is applicable to natural and legal persons resident in one or both Contracting States, limited to taxation on income and regional tax on productive activities. The Agreement defines the concept of residence, permanent establishment and profits, accepting the general principle that profits are taxable in the State of residence of the undertaking with the exception of income produced through a permanent establishment. As regards capital gains, the Convention establishes, inter alia, a competing tax liability of the two States for capital gains in respect of immovable property or movable property belonging to the permanent establishment or fixed base. In the field of pensions, the Convention provides for taxation only in the State of residence, while for remuneration arising from the performance of public functions, taxation in the State of source is normally established. For the income of teachers and teachers, the agreement, in order to facilitate exchanges, provides for a temporary exemption in the country where they carry out research or teaching activities. The principle of non-discrimination, a friendly procedure for conflict resolution, the exchange of information and the intangibility of tax privileges provided for diplomatic agents and consular officials are also provided for. The draft law of ratification consists of three articles which provide respectively for authorisation and ratification, order of implementation and entry into force. No charges are provided. The text does not present any profiles of incompatibility with national legislation or with European law and other international obligations entered into by our country. In conclusion, it is proposed that the Assembly approve this measure.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-739.ana.u122	I declare the general discussion open. He's enlisted to speak Senator Stucchi. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-739.ana.u123	Mr President, as the rapporteur has said, double taxation is a well-known issue for this House. This is a standard ratification, which is written following a model already used and solves some open issues between these two countries, namely ours and Barbados. I believe that, as in other cases, our Group can only share the aims of the measure.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-739.ana.u124	The general debate is closed. I would like to say that the Presidency - and it is being distributed - has received the opinion of the 5th standing Commission on the draft law before us, which will be published in an annex to today's report. We shall proceed to the vote on Rule 1. CHAMPOLILLO (M5S). We call for the vote to be taken by simultaneous ballot by electronic means. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Article 1. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the vote on Rule 2. GAETTI (M5S). We call for the vote to be taken by simultaneous ballot by electronic means. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Rule 2. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the vote on Rule 3. CHAMPOLILLO (M5S). We call for the vote to be taken by simultaneous ballot by electronic means. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Rule 3. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B).
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-739.ana.u125	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-739.ana.u126	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-739.ana.u127	Stitches (LN-Aut). Mr President, in view of what I have said, our Group will vote in favour of this measure.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-739.ana.u128	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-739.ana.u129	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-739.ana.u130	BERTOROTTA (M5S). Mr President, speaking of Barbados, heaven comes to mind: dreamy beaches, crystal clear sea, lush and exotic vegetation. A wonderful place. In addition to being a paradise for tourism, it is a tax paradise, especially for large businesses. First of all, it is necessary to distinguish between individuals and societies. Companies enjoy many privileges, such as: ten years of exemption from income tax, followed by a fixed rate of 2.5%. But so far nothing wrong, since the country is very small and the spending needs of the state are certainly more contained than ours. It is precisely the case to quote an article by Valerio Castronovo of 14 August 2016 on "Il Sole 24 Ore" (Il Sole 24 Ore) entitled "It is capitalism, beauty" or how to judge unfair competition based on lower taxes and services to better companies. On banking transparency, however, Barbados is currently included in the black lists of non-collaborative states provided for by the decrees of the Ministry of Economy and Finance. Barbados is also part of the so-called top 30 list of tax havens provided by the European Union. How can we not conclude that the signing of this agreement is a decisive step towards the exit from the Italian black list and of course an excellent reference also to get out of the European top list, provided that this is of interest to both parties? It should also be pointed out that compared to the model of the OECD Convention, commonly used by our country to sign agreements of this type, in this case there are several anomalies, such as: Article 14 establishes a privileged lane for the so-called stable organizations, which would be a drilling platform or ship used for the exploration or exploitation of natural resources as a permanent organisation, if the duration exceeds six months. The difference with the OECD model concerns Article 28, which sets out the possibility of reimbursements to the taxpayer in particular in the case of improper taxation. It should also be noted that the Caribbean State has recently signed the Multilateral Convention on Mutual Assistance in Tax Matters promoted by the OECD and the Council of Europe, and is one of the countries that have undertaken to carry out, by September 2017, the first transmission of data according to the new OECD automatic exchange standard on financial information. Similar agreements have also been signed with the United States. This agreement probably goes in the right direction, that of greater transparency and certain rules, but it is not adequate to deal with the near future, also because of the transformation of the financial market and companies. It is an agreement that has already been established in many ways. However, because of the need to continue a path of dialogue and to recover legitimate tax base, although in the presence of concerns highlighted, I announce our favorable vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-739.ana.u131	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-739.ana.u132	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-739.ana.u133	Rossi Luciano (AP (Ncd-CpI)). Mr President, Mr Amoruso's illustration has been precise and precise. Therefore, advance the favorable vote of the People's Area Group.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-739.ana.u134	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-739.ana.u135	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-739.ana.u136	Sangalli (PD). Mr President, I confirm the Democratic Party's vote in favour.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-739.ana.u137	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-739.ana.u138	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-739.ana.u139	GAETTI (M5S). We call for the vote to be taken by simultaneous ballot by electronic means.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-739.ana.u140	I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I refer to the nominal vote by simultaneous ballot of the bill as a whole. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B).
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-739.ana.u141	The next item is the debate on draft law No 2207. The rapporteur, Senator Micheloni, has requested authorisation to carry out the oral report. No comments were made and the request was accepted. I therefore call the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-739.ana.u142	Mr President, it is a matter of ratifying the Protocol amending the Convention between the Italian Republic and the Republic of the Philippines to avoid double taxation on income taxes and to prevent tax evasion of 5 December 1980 made in Manila on 9 December 2013. The purpose of this Protocol is to update the bilateral Convention dating back to 1980, allowing it to extend its scope, including, for Italy, regional tax on production activities. Article III amends certain provisions of the current Convention, rewording in particular the method of ordinary charging for the elimination of double taxation, making it appropriate to the most recent wording used in the tax conventions. The same article eliminates the mechanism that provided for the possibility for Italian entities operating in the territory of the Philippines to charge virtual taxes on royalties, interest or dividends, even if the same were not actually levied for such income. The following Article IV extends cooperation between administrations, inter alia by providing for the overcoming of banking secrecy. The article is therefore the legal basis for intensifying administrative cooperation between the Parties in the field of information exchange, in accordance with the priority objective of combating transnational evasion, while at the same time allowing the transparency of relations between the tax authorities of the two countries to be improved. Finally, Article V provides for the entry into force of the Protocol at the time of the exchange of notifications of the procedures for transposing the new Agreement into their respective legal systems. The draft ratification law consists of three articles which have, respectively, the authorization to ratify, the order of execution and the entry into force. The explanatory report accompanying the measure states that the introduction of the provisions of the Convention should not lead to revenue effects for the Italian Treasury. The text does not present profiles of incompatibility with national legislation, European law and other international obligations entered into by our country. In conclusion, it is proposed that the House approve it.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-739.ana.u143	I declare the general discussion open. He's enlisted to speak Senator Stucchi. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-739.ana.u144	Mr President, I would like to thank the rapporteur for his speech. This ratification does indeed touch on an issue that we have already addressed with Barbados, but for the Philippines it is an issue that goes to update an existing document in order to avoid double taxation and prevent tax evasion. We share these aims. Today we have a more modern, more agile and easily applicable tool that will certainly lead to better results; a more effective tool than the old existing agreements. As I said before, we share the aims and hope that the content of this ratification will be applied as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-739.ana.u145	The general debate is closed. I would like to say that the Presidency - and it is being distributed - has received the opinion of the 5th standing Commission on the draft law before us, which will be published in an annex to today's report. We shall proceed to the vote on Rule 1. GAETTI (M5S). We call for the vote to be taken by simultaneous ballot by electronic means. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Article 1. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the vote on Rule 2. GAETTI (M5S). We call for the vote to be taken by simultaneous ballot by electronic means. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Rule 2. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the vote on Rule 3. GAETTI (M5S). We call for the vote to be taken by simultaneous ballot by electronic means. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Rule 3. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B).
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-739.ana.u146	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-739.ana.u147	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-739.ana.u148	Stitches (LN-Aut). Mr President, I would just like to reiterate our Group's vote in favour. The aims are shared and, above all, it is an instrument that can deliver better results than the one currently in force.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-739.ana.u149	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-739.ana.u150	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-739.ana.u151	LUCIDES (M5S). Mr President, I declare the 5 Star Movement Group's vote in favour.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-739.ana.u152	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-739.ana.u153	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-739.ana.u154	Rossi Luciano (AP (Ncd-CpI)). Mr President, I would like to announce the Group's convincingly positive vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-739.ana.u155	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-739.ana.u156	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-739.ana.u157	Sangalli (PD). Mr President, I am voting in favour of the Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-739.ana.u158	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-739.ana.u159	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-739.ana.u160	GAETTI (M5S). We call for the vote to be taken by simultaneous ballot by electronic means.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-739.ana.u161	I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I refer to the nominal vote by simultaneous ballot of the bill as a whole. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B).
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-739.ana.u162	Ladies and gentlemen, at 4.30 p.m. on Tuesday 17 January, the President will make a statement on the timetable. The Conference of Leaders will be convened on Tuesday.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-739.ana.u163	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-739.ana.u164	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-739.ana.u165	PERRONE (CoR). Mr President, it is my wish to bring to the attention of this House the worrying situation of bad weather that has struck the regions of the Central and South. Puglia, in particular, is the region in which climatic adversities have overwhelmed the territory that has failed to cope with the exceptionality of these events. The fruit and vegetable sector, which has always been an excellence in Italy and the world, has been brought to its knees. Partial losses already speak of over EUR 110 million, but the budget is set to rise. Puglia is one of the main producers of fruit and vegetables at national level and the decrease in the quantity of fruit and vegetable products in Puglia will inevitably result in the scarcity of raw materials throughout the country, the increase in the prices of the existing supply, as well as employment effects on the entire agricultural chain. The CoR Group has submitted a question asking Minister Martina to act promptly and to present a measure allowing farms to return to production without the burden caused by the losses caused by these sad events. We therefore hope that the Minister will come and report to this House on the strategies that the Government intends to adopt to deal with this situation. [[Applause from the CoR Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-739.ana.u166	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-739.ana.u167	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-739.ana.u168	DI GIORGI (PD). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I am speaking about the very serious situation in which the bomb squad superintendent was seriously injured in Florence by the explosion of a handicraft device on the morning of New Year's Eve 2017 (this is how we started our year in Italy). Mario Vece, 39 years old, has lost his left hand and almost totally his right eye and has a serious zygomus malformation, on which we have now intervened again with an operation. Last Monday, in fact, he underwent a long surgery again, probably not the last, which ended positively. I will go to the hospital to bring my personal solidarity as a citizen of Florence, but I am speaking to you here, ladies and gentlemen, because as a member of the Presidency Council I would also like to bring that of the Senate of the Republic and I am sure that I can also bring your colleagues. Superintendent Mario Vece, in fact, in the exercise of his duties, to ensure our safety was the victim of a serious accident that will obviously upset his life forever to that of his family. Obviously, the perpetrators of the attack are criminals with no soul, people who believe that the political struggle must be done with blood and destruction, criminal subjects who, according to the statements in the press, as you have seen, would be part of anarcho-insurrectionalist circles that actually think that the political struggle should be done with blood. Mario Vece's wounds are wounded to democracy and our institutions. These subjects are not new; they have already hit in Florence, they have used the same system of explosive devices against locations of the organization of the extreme right CasaPound, but that is not the point. The point is that the political struggle must be civil. It is a struggle that must be carried out with words, with arguments and certainly not with these ways that are unacceptable. I shall conclude my speech here, Mr President. I wanted to express the closeness of the Senate of the Republic to the artificer Mario Vece so that no one, in the vortex of the news that overlap day after day, forgets the history of this man who nevertheless made such a sacrifice to protect us, all of us, like so many policemen, like the Order Forces, do every day with a high personal risk. We, after the news, forget about it, but in the hospital there is a man who is suffering a lot and his family, moreover, lives in Salerno and therefore also has economic problems in order to stay in Florence and assist him in such a tragic moment. [[Applause from the PD Group and Senators Giovanardi and Orellana.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-739.ana.u169	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-739.ana.u170	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-739.ana.u171	Mr Capelletti (M5S). Mr President, I do not often speak at the end of the sitting. I rarely do this but to report serious situations, even very serious as the following. I come from Vicenza, Vicenza is in Veneto and Veneto is increasingly known in Italy as the land of the PFAS, which are polluting chemical materials that have contaminated, imbued the soil, the groundwater and the water of 300,000 inhabitants of Veneto. We have been fighting for three years to close the faucet of the company that pollutes, which has already been identified for a long time. But nothing has been done by the government, which has tripled the threshold values, and nothing has been done by the regional government, which has accused us of causing alarm, threatening legal actions against the 5 Star Movement. Now, however, new data and serious and alarming new studies have emerged. A study of the birth register on maternal and neonatal outcomes in relation to PFAS contamination reveals an increase in gestational diabetes, very low weight births, small gestational births and some major malformations including nervous system abnormalities, circulatory system abnormalities and chromosomes. In the 21 municipalities concerned in Veneto there is a significant increase in mortality. The diseases associated with PFAS are in particular ischemic heart disease, so mortality increased by 21 percent, vascular cerebroskeletal disease, so mortality increased by 19 percent, diabetes mellitus plus 25 percent, Alzheimer's and dementia plus 14 percent. There is even a significant excess of hyperthyroidism. President, PFAS is dying in Veneto. Not only do we say that we need to close the pollution faucets, Domenico Mantoan, Director General of Health of the Veneto Region, says that to sign his report calls for the immediate removal of sources of contamination. For a joke of fate he too is the victim of this pollution. It seems that he has undergone or intends to undergo shortly plasmapheresis: for those who did not know it is the washing of their own blood. Too bad there are 300,000 citizens in Veneto in this situation. We ask the regional and national government once again to wake up, to answer questions that have been unanswered for years and to intervene to shut down the source of pollution that has been clearly identified. The polluter has to pay, and there are billions of billions of damage here. I conclude, however, with a question: who will pay for all the lives that have been broken because we did not intervene before to put an end to this pollution? [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-739.ana.u172	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-739.ana.u173	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-739.ana.u174	ENDRIZZI (M5S). Mr President, another scandal in the management of migrants: on 3 January 2017, the Forces of Order intervened in Cona, in the Province of Venice, after a revolt broke out following the death of a 25-year-old Ivorian girl. The center is managed by the cooperative company Ecofficina Edeco, which - as it reports - is a name known for several investigations: scam, fake and ill-treatment are the hypothesis of crime at the top of the cooperative. In just a few years, it has become leader in the management of the reception market, with a turnover passed from 114,000 euros in 2011 to almost 20 million euros in 2016, after having awarded us important structures in three Provinces: Oderzo, Cona and Padua. Until recently, he ran the former Prandina barracks, where hundreds of migrants (too many) passed by at the gates of the historic centre. I visited that tentopolis and presented an act of inspection union that has not yet been answered. The case is so clear, Mr President, that Ugo Campagnaro, regional president of Confcooperatives, had to declare that this is a system that does not respond to the logic of good reception, of the quality of intervention, of integration and of the report. Instead, it is a model that looks above all to the business, taking the distance from that managing entity and the way in which it operated. During the years Ecofficina has been the subject of journalistic investigations that report parental interweavings with politics. The president is Gaetano Battocchio, while the managing director is Sara Felpati, wife of Simone Borile, former president of the Consorzio Padova Sud and vice-president of the subsidiary Padova Tre, the same in which they work or have worked, among others, Francesca Degani, sister of Barbara, former president of the Province and Undersecretary for the environment with the New Centrodestro, but also Emiliano Manzato, son of Sergio, former deputy of the DS and mayor of Stanghella. And then a plethora of relatives of local politicians: wives, children and sister-in-laws of councilors, deputy mayors, right, left and centre city councilors. The union between Padua Tre and Ecofficina, the subject of journalistic investigations, would have ended in 2014, but their ties were still at the center of an investigation by the public prosecutor of Padua Federica Baccaglini about a gap in the budget of 30 million euros. In fact, last November, the men of the Finance Guard came to search the offices of Ecofficina for a suspected exchange of money between Coop's coffers and those of the garbage collection company. So, Mr President, I have presented a further act of inspection union, in which I ask to know what information the Government has regarding the death of the girl at the reception center and the erupted revolt; what initiatives it has in mind to take to verify and possibly resolve the problems highlighted; how it wants to prevent the management of these reception centers by subjects who do not have the standards of quality and dignity in the interventions; whether it intends to activate an adequate monitoring system; finally, how it intends to implement the checks on economic reporting and on the correct and transparent management. [[Applause from the M5S Group. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-739.ana.u175	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-739.ana.u176	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-739.ana.u177	CANDIANI (LN-Aut). Mr President, yesterday we had the opportunity to learn from the news reports that a new episode of post-an earthquake reconstruction management according to the Government. I was truly amazed by this choice and above all by the way (via draw) with which we are responding to fundamental needs, such as that of a roof under which to shelter. I believe that this is the total failure of any serious political choice to respond to this emergency, which - I remember - has seen all the members of the Government parade in the past months, from the former President of the Council to the present, to the President of the Republic (I say this with respect), to the Ministers, who have gone on the field and have spent their time on fast and safe solutions for everyone, saying that no one would be left behind. Mr President, it is shameful that there has been a draw. After the misfortune, after the disaster, we must now rely on good luck. But this is not a serious way to operate. It is not possible to proceed in this way towards people who are still waiting under tents and under the snow. What is even more gruesome is that we rely on private fundraising, when there are hundreds of millions that should be available and when, unfortunately - I say this again - bureaucracy is winning over common sense. In recent days I have spoken with the mayor of Norcia and I have been faced with a simple reflection: it is winning the bureaucracy; the need to guarantee the security of the contracts compared to doing them. This is not a serious way in which a country and a government, who want to be serious, can give credible answers. I am truly sorry and I say nothing more because it would mean to expire in the content. In the next few days I will return to those houses and to those people and I will bring the situation back to this Senate Chamber again. As I have done before, I would ask you, Mr President, to take action in the Committee on Agriculture so that there is a serious visit from the Commission to consider the conditions for abandoning farmers. If that does not happen, we will have abdicated our role. We cannot afford this; we will not allow it. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-739.ana.u178	I would also like to thank you for the presentation of motions and other instruments for bringing this debate to this House.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-739.ana.u179	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-739.ana.u180	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-739.ana.u181	GIROTTO (M5S). Mr President, let us be ashamed of ourselves: before we heard about water pollution, which is a fundamental asset; now I will talk about air pollution. We had the brilliant idea of reopening a coal plant. We all know that coal is the fuel of the future: safe, clean and economical (of course they are sarcastic). We reopened a power station in Genoa because France produces less energy with nuclear power. We Italians have been very good in the past years: we have greatly increased our production from renewables and, therefore, we are quiet (even here I am sadly sarcastic). Italy has been in reverse for the last two years. Colleagues of the majority, please put it in your head. These are official figures: two years ago we lost 5% of electricity from renewables and last year 2%. We are in reverse, while in the rest of the world we increase the production of energy from renewables: last year photovoltaics had a 30 percent increase, while we lost 0.5 percent. We're still and in reverse. It's an incredible shame! We re-open a coal-fired power station to the face of COP21, the 2020 and 2030 targets, the national energy strategy and what Obama has said now that it is free and no longer has any remorse. He has given an interview with "Popular Science" which I invite you to read, in which he marries completely renewable and efficient. How could it be otherwise since they create hundreds of thousands of jobs, they safeguard the environment and the economy? What do we do in Italy? Let's reopen a coal plant. I'd like to invite everyone to go to the mine and extract it to figure out what it's like. It's a message for all Italians. This government is in reverse. Don't trust him anymore. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-739.ana.u182	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-739.ana.u183	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-739.ana.u184	PUGLIA (M5S). Mr President, I would like to ask two questions. The first is the act 4-02094, even of 17 April 2014. I don't know what the Ministry does. Are you asleep? Maybe it's because Poletti's still here. It is addressed to the Ministry of Labour. The other question I would like to ask is the act 4-06281 of 4 August 2016, which concerns the archaeological park of Liternum, in the Municipality of Giuliano, in the province of Naples. I want to ask the Minister if he really intends to give the citizens this archaeological park. Since there is so much talk about culture and the fact that it is eaten with it, I would like to ask these two questions.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-739.ana.u185	The motions, questions and questions received by the Presidency will be published in Annex B to today's report. I remember that the Senate will come back to meet in public today, at 4 p.m., with the agenda already printed and distributed. The sitting was closed at 11.55 p.m.
