ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-747.ana.u1	The sitting is open (10:01 a.m.). The Minutes shall be read. Mr SIBILIA, secretary, read the Minutes of the afternoon sitting of 19 January. PRESIDENT. - The debate is Since there were no comments, the Minutes were approved.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-747.ana.u2	The list of senators on leave and absent on assignment received from the Senate, as well as further communications to the Assembly, will be published in Annex B to today's Minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-747.ana.u3	I would warn you that qualified votes can be taken in the course of today's sitting by electronic means. Therefore, from this moment on, the period of 20 minutes from the notice provided for in Article 119 (1) of the Rules of Procedure (at 10:03 a.m.).
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-747.ana.u4	The next item is: Information from the President of the Council of Ministers on the emergency situation in Central Italy. After the intervention of the representative of the Government, each group will have five minutes available. I call the President of the Council of Ministers, Mr Gentiloni Silveri.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-747.ana.u5	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, I believe that the Senate Assembly must first of all feel a strong and unanimous feeling of condolence and compassion for the victims of these difficult and, in some ways, dramatic days: for the twenty-three victims of the hotel Rigopiano, where the search for six missing persons is still underway; for the six victims of the helicopter accident in Campo Felice; for the five people who lost their lives during those intense days of bad weather and earthquake. To all of our fellow citizens there is the heartfelt condolences of the Senate Assembly. [[Applause. The President stands up and with him the whole House.]] Equally strong and unanimous I think it must be the feeling of gratitude for the thousands of people - there are 11,000 at this time, in addition to those of the local authorities and the regions - who work to save lives and to reduce hardships. I believe that in our memory these days will remain first and foremost the images of the catastrophes and mourning that struck us, but also the images of the saved lives, of generosity, of the sense of duty, of the State that mobilizes all its energies and, when there is no other way, arrives also in the midst of the torment on skis and with seal skins. Even these images will remain in our memory. [[Applause from the PD, AP (Ncd-CpI), for the Autonomies (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT)-PSI-MAIE and Misto-Idv.]] Of these rescuers, two of whom tragically lost their lives yesterday in the Campo Felice accident, we are proud because they are exemplary Italian citizens. [[Applause.]] The avalanche that overwhelmed the hotel Rigopiano has reached, in a certain sense, the culmination of a concatenation of unprecedented natural phenomena: a snowfall that in those dimensions has not been recorded for some decades and a deadly coincidence between this exceptional snowfall and numerous earthquake shocks. This coincidence doesn't really remember from human memory. A snowfall - I repeat - of absolutely exceptional size. The first notice of this event issued by Civil Protection dates back to Sunday 15 January. The snowfall was, as announced, of exceptional intensity in particular between 16 and 19 January. For example, on the evening of January 15, the Campotosto Nivometric Station recorded 30 cm of snow, on the evening of 18 it recorded 239, more than two meters of snow accumulated during that period. In the area of Farindola, the municipality of which was part of the hotel Rigopiano, more than two meters of snow accumulated in seventy-two hours. These exceptional rainfalls have caused serious consequences for the road system and the electricity grid: you can imagine the situation of our fellow citizens who under these critical conditions of road, and for some areas of connection to the electricity grid, have suffered the trauma, for the third time, of the earthquake. As is well known, Wednesday, January 18, there were four major shocks: the first at 10.25 am of magnitude 5.1, the second at 11.14 am of 5.5 (the strongest), the third at 11.25 am of 5.4 and the fourth at 14.33 am of 5.0. A few hours later, a huge Slav woman fell on the hotel Rigopiano. Every possible effort has been made to reach the hotel hit by the Slavina. You know that in the beginning operations were dramatically delayed by the impossibility of using helicopters and the Slavic risk, as well as, of course, the traffic conditions. You know how the place of this tragedy has been reached, because the images we have all seen, at 4:30 in the morning by the Alpine rescue teams of Finance, the Carabinieri and the firemen engaged in the first aid. Since then, from 4.30 a.m. on that morning, I believe that every effort has been made from the human, organizational and technical point of view - and the efforts are still underway - to try to identify the missing, to save human lives. I can't even remember all the forces that collaborated, you know, and we collectively thank them, all together. [[Applause from the PD, AP (Ncd-CpI), Aut (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT) and PSI-MAIE and Misto-Idv groups.]] I want to thank the Civil Protection, which coordinated all this, and the Deputy Minister Bubbico who represented the government on the spot. We reached that place with seal skins but we worked, in the following days, with steam probes and latest generation cameras, worked with the most advanced cell phone tracking tools available to the special forces of the Finance Guard, we put in the field 200 people, as much as possible in such a restricted area and really all possible means. Human lives have been saved, and unfortunately, as you know, we have a number of victims and missing persons, which are evolving. Faced with this concatenation of unprecedented crisis events in their convergence, the deployment of forces coordinated by Civil Protection was very important. We have passed between civilian forces and military forces, from about 4,000 to 5,000 people engaged on January 16, 17, to over 11,000 engaged on yesterday's day. What did this effort consist of? First of all in the exceptional work to try to reach the isolated fractions due to the earthquake and the crisis situation determined in the roadway, then to try to solve the problems to the electricity grid and help people in difficulty. During those three days 3,581 ground rescue operations were carried out and, as soon as possible, air rescue operations were multiplied, in the sense that helicopters were used for evacuations, to provide food, medicines and, in some cases, fodder to fractions not reachable on the road. In those days 32 helicopters worked with more than 300 missions. The first goal was to reach and rescue fractions in difficulty. The second objective was to restore viability. 146 turbines and cutters were involved in this effort, and 250 specific snow-proof vehicles were involved. Stress that has brought the situation back to a semblance of normality (we do not yet speak of complete normality) in the following days, at the apex of the crisis that - as you know - occurred in the days of 18 and 19 past. Today the main roads are accessible, with the exception of State No. 80, the so-called state of Gran Sasso, which connects Teramo to L'Aquila and which still has some closed sections, also for precautionary orders of the judiciary. Thirdly, we have worked to reconnect the electricity. At the peak of this crisis, that is, last Wednesday, 18 January, unconnected users reached a considerable figure of 177,000, which describes to all of us the dimension of the crisis that those populations have gone through. Today there are a few hundred left in the province of Teramo. I think it is right, even at government level, to verify in this dynamic how much they have affected (and certainly have affected decisively) the exceptional circumstances and how much this has highlighted more general maintenance problems. Fourthly, work has been done on the verification of the situation and the sealing of dams. There are 40 dams in the area affected by the earthquake, monitored by practices, with a work coordinated by the Civil Protection, in agreement with the Ministry of Infrastructure, each time a shock occurs above magnitude 4 and therefore have been repeatedly monitored over the last few months. You know that a couple of days ago there was a meeting, chaired by Minister Delrio, which claimed the state of the risks, particularly around the facilities of the Campotosto basin, on the one hand to prevent these risks and on the other to avoid the spread of uncontrolled voices about exaggerated risks. Finally, we have worked to strengthen the first assistance, because the tragic dimension of the avalanche and the exceptional size of the snowfall must not make us forget the emergency felt by many of those populations, in particular on the subject of the earthquake and the stability of the buildings. The persons in assistance in the centres coordinated by Civil Protection have passed, to give you a number, from 10.076 on 17 January to 14,576 on 24 January. So, over the week that we have behind us, it's gone from about 10,000 to 15,000, which is quite a big increase. Have there been any delays or malfunctions at specific points of this system? Are there any responsibilities for the tragedy of the hotel Rigopiano? It will be the investigations that will clarify this point. The government does not fear the truth, but the truth serves to do better, not to poison the wells. [[Applause from the PD, AP (Ncd-CpI), Aut (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT) - PSI-MAIE and Misto-Idv]] I, who share the search for the truth, do not share a certain desire, which I see serpenting, of scapegoats and executioners, also because history is slow to transform the executioners into scapegoats and it would be good for us all to take this into account responsibly. [[Applause from the PD, AP (Ncd-CpI), Aut (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT) - PSI-MAIE and Misto-Idv]] I think that we, apart from individual errors or responsibilities (which, I repeat, will be the investigations to ascertain), have shown a capacity for reaction of the system to the height of a great country: not by chance, we have a state-of-the-art civil protection system. Civil Protection is not right-wing or left-wing, it is not of this or that Government; Civil Protection is an Italian heritage that we must hold on to. [[Applause from the PD, AP (Ncd-CpI), Aut (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT) - PSI-MAIE) and Misto-Idv.]] I claim the decisions taken by the government chaired by Matteo Renzi, starting from the first crisis (you will remember, the one at the end of August), and I think it is a matter of moving in continuity with those decisions. We have made the right and necessary choices for civil protection with Commissioner Errani and the Presidents of the Region in function of deputy commissioners, with a team game with local authorities. However, we must not ignore the impact of this third difficult test to which an important part of central Italy has been subjected. The fragility of this wonderful territory is certainly not discovered with the episodes of the last days: it is a historical fragility. But the risk of the effects of this fragility causing some sort of resigned desperation must be fought with all our strength. Therefore, we will be working together with the Commissioner, the deputy commissioners and all the structures and local authorities to provide accommodation and schools, but also in perspective to support businesses, agriculture, tourism, vocations of this territory. We must think about the emergency, the reconstruction and the revival of these territories fundamental for our country. This is also why the Government is working with Civil Protection, the Commissioner's office, the Regions, local authorities and the Anti-corruption Authority, to respond to the challenges that this third crisis poses to us. As you know, in the last Council of Ministers we have already extended the state of emergency and decided on a first allocation. Next week we will pass a decree, and no one imagines that this decree is a return: it will be a very focused step forward in its objectives, aimed at preventing on some points, on some decisive ganglia, the accumulation of delays that so far have not been, but that could occur in the coming months and that we must prevent. The resources are there, and I want to say this because I have read and seen a lot of controversy on this point: there are 4 billion in the budget law and there will be more, as I have personally anticipated to the President of the European Commission, Jean-Claude Juncker. Ladies Senators, a great Abruzzo, Ignazio Silone, whose life had been marked by the earthquake of Avezzano in 1915, admonished with bitter words on the consequences of a phenomenon, the earthquake, which was habitual in its lands, in the Marsica. Silone said: after fear, misfortune turns into an occasion for wider injustices. Well, this is not a destiny: it is in our hands to avoid that, after the misfortune, this becomes further injustices. We can avoid it, we have done it as Italians in many territories of our country and we will do it also in these regions of central Italy. [[Applause from the PD, AP (Ncd-CpI), Aut (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT) - PSI-MAIE) and Misto-Idv.]] That is why today is the time for responsibility. Ladies and gentlemen, the pained Italy must feel from all of us an assumption of responsibility: from the Government, first of all, there is no doubt, for the decisions it has to take and for the responsibilities that it has to take; from Parliament, that these decisions must improve, discuss and approve quickly; from the central system of civil protection and from the office of the Commissioner for Reconstruction; from the Regions, from the Mayors, from the public leaders, from the entire public administration. The laws are there. The addresses are clear. Everyone do their duty. Doing your duty, making decisions, signing what you have to sign, proceeding on the addresses and following the laws that our law provides is the best way to show the Italians affected in these days that they are not alone and that the State is with them. Thank you. [[Applause from the PD, AP (Ncd-CpI), ALA-SCLP, Aut (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT) - PSI-MAIE and Misto-Idv.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-747.ana.u6	I declare open the discussion on the information of the President of the Council of Ministers. I ask my colleagues, as far as possible, to stick to the schedule so that the President-in-Office of the Council can listen to all those who have signed up to speak. Senator Tarquinio is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-747.ana.u7	Madam President, thank you for your speech, as usual measured and calm. Talking about the misfortune that occurred in August and what happened in these days is a difficult thing. Certainly we, as Conservatives and Reformists, do not like instrumentalizations of any kind and of any kind. And unfortunately, we are witnessing hallucinating situations. We're witnessing ridiculous lawsuits. Everyone trusts the judiciary, but everyone asks to investigate why that hotel was there, forgetting that a judicial affair ended months ago. We are, however, lingering on unnecessary matters, without going into the substance of the real ones. We thank all our Forces of Order: Fire department first, Civil Protection, Finance Guard, Carabinieri, volunteers all. But we have problems. This last tragedy, these further shocks, have brought us back to what is not happening in the earthquake zones of August: to the delays, to the anger of the mayors. I don't charge them to you at all, but these stay. On this occasion we must have the courage to tackle the problems; on this occasion we must realize that civil protection, although commendable, has been virtually diminished over the last three years; we must have the courage to ensure that civil protection is a body of its own, unique and independent, ready to intervene as is the case in the United States of America; we must realize that many delays also derive from a thousand rules and codes on procurement that often become obsessive and harmful to deal with situations as a matter of urgency. You said: everyone takes on their responsibilities; everyone signs what they have to sign. But you have to be careful, because for a signature or otherwise you are going through serious trouble. We create more and more problems for the terror of corruption, which certainly exists, but for this enormous fear of corruption we must not block the country. We must enable those who have political, administrative and managerial responsibilities to be serene. Then if they fail, someone will strike them; but he must strike them with reason. It is not possible to open an inquiry into everything. This one has incredible. The population needs answers immediately. On houses, as I said in my previous speech, and you were also present, we must give a greater role and more responsibility to the mayors. They are the first to respond to their citizens. It is they who will be controlled by their respective communities. I expect, in addition to all the efforts of the Government and the entire country, beyond the solidarity of all, to enter into the real merit. The civil protection machine must be strengthened: it must be made, with some special rule - pass me the term - also autonomous, as happens in the United States of America. Minister Delrio has gone away, but we must admit the mistakes: with the reform of the Provinces we have removed the funds to the Provinces also for roads and schools; they must be restored. [[Applause from the CoR and LN-Aut groups and Senator Buemi]] Possibly we return to what it was to give the word back to the citizens, because from that too comes so much trouble. The Provinces cannot intervene, because they do not have the funds to do so; they no longer have the powers. So I hope that the government will do what it has to do with these issues. I believe that we need the support of the whole Parliament. For the rest, so much seriousness and so much concreteness. People expect real and immediate answers and it is up to the Government, with the support of this Parliament, to do what needs to be done. Mr President, the words are over and people are out of it. It is up to us to give those answers and I am sure that, if we all work together, we will give them, but only seriously addressing the problems, without demagogy, eliminating structures and superstructures that prevent the managers and politicians on duty from doing their duty and giving the answers due to the citizens. [[Applause from the CoR and ALA-SCLP Groups]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-747.ana.u8	Senator Fucksia is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-747.ana.u9	Madam President, President Gentiloni Silveri, not always starting well means being halfway through the opera. If it is true that on 24 August, after four hours, Civil Protection was already present on the places - and of course all this is commendable - things were then slowed down inexplicable way. It is also true that nature has put us into it, because we have seen something that really has extraordinary: 49,000 shocks, of which at least ten with a magnitude of more than five. In the last few days almost 400 shocks a day. To all this snow has been added and all the consequences that have resulted, from the Slavs to the rest: something that puts everyone to the test. It is for this reason, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, that you will have to coordinate the Commissioner ad acta and the head of civil protection with not only the utmost responsibility, commitment, determination, but also much vision, much objectivity and a lot of heart: yes, Mr President, that too. It consoles me that you have Marche origins, because the knowledge of the territory is fundamental in order to respond in the most congruent way to the citizens, to the populations, to those who are suffering damage. I challenge anyone to prove what it means to be a week without electricity: not being able to wash, feel the cold, not even be able to cook. I challenge anyone who does not have the possibility - because there is no clarity - to put a wooden house, not to be able to provide for themselves in their own garden because the procedures are not clear. Look, ma'am, I'm not saying we should derogate. We have many municipalities and each has its own building regulations that must be respected, but procedures must be speeded up. I wonder, then, why this strong slowdown, why do the successive ordinances contradict each other and increase confusion? PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Conclude, Senator. FUCKSIA (Mixed). Madam President, I have a number of things to say; let me say at least three. The delays are due first of all to the lack of lists of professionals, who are now qualified to make the opinions that are still sworn: all this is shameful. The professional swears, it's enough for an expert assessment. There are still no clear procedures: even post-an earthquake reconstruction institutions have not yet been set up. In Marche one of the fastest examples is in Ascoli Piceno, yet they are ghost structures: of 75 people represented, theoretical, there are 20 and there are no technicians. It's all on paper, but nothing concrete: if you don't have clarity in the procedures you don't even have people, you don't know how to provide, you don't know how to ask for money, you don't know how to intervene. Another important absence, in addition to that of the offices for reconstruction, is that of the Directorate of Command and Control (Dicomac). It is not possible that there is not a coordination Dicomac for each Region. PRESIDENT. - The debate is Senator Fucksia, out of respect for his colleagues, must conclude, otherwise the President of the Council will have to leave. CERONI (FI-PdL XVII). We cannot stop such an important debate in this way! Can we talk three minutes about a tragedy like this? That's not possible! FUCKSIA (Mixed). Mr President, I would also like to ask you specifically for a comparison in order to make concrete proposals because - I remind you - in 1997 in a much less tragic situation than this and much more limited, in Fabriano, after three months, we had the houses and started the reconstruction. This has happened because we are not doing concentration as we are now. We taught Errani in Emilia, because unfortunately we had the earthquake before: every five years there is an earthquake in the Apennines. Now Errani doesn't even do what he did in Emilia. In Emilia there has been much more freedom; today, however, there is a concentration that blocks and casts. Things are getting faster when contracts are not mega, but small and they make companies and professionals in the territory work, and we have them in surplus. The public does the checks; Civil Protection is very good and deserves all the commendations, but it is limited to managing the emergency: it cannot deal with evaluation and management of reconstruction. because he doesn't have the skills to do it. If we slow down today... [[The microphone is automatically switched off.]] Mr President, I cannot speak in this way, otherwise we are hypocrites: we cannot go to those areas to make the catwalks and then not to deal with the issues. Mr President-in-Office of the Council, I would like a comparison to give answers, directions and suggestions to speed things up, not only by asking for more money or by hiring people who don't even need it, but by using with common sense what we have, by decentralising and making everyone do what they have to do. There is much more I could say, but for obvious time limits, I shall end my speech here. [[Applause from Senators Bencini and Simeoni]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-747.ana.u10	Senator Arrigoni is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-747.ana.u11	Mr President-in-Office of the Council, is there still an efficient civil protection system? No, we don't say it, but the people who lived on their own skin the earthquake, the post-earthquake and the bad weather emergency, people bewildered and outraged to see that much did not go the right way. Probably they are right: what was a flagship for Italy, acquiring merits and recognitions all over the world, has been completely dismantled over time, with consequences that are before the eyes and that are paid in terms of victims, emergencies and inconveniences. Can we say as a North League that something isn't working for the post-earthquake and the bad weather emergency, without being accused of wanting to exploit the emergency? Many wooden houses and containers promised have not yet arrived in Central Italy, leaving families in critical conditions to the cold and frost. The draw of the houses with the notary represents a failure of the state. The mobile stables promised to farmers for the past five months have come to a very small extent. Despite the weather warning for the abundant snowfalls, the snow clearing service has not been properly prepared on the roads, especially the provincial ones, because different snow sweepers and turbines supplied - we do not know if adequate - were broken and therefore lacked adequate maintenance. The limitation and blocking of the roadway have caused serious problems for the rescue and, for example, has slowed down the Enel intervention to restore the power-installed electric utilities. You said it: 177,000 utilities between 18 and 19 January and over 300,000 people! The last ones are still waiting, after ten days. There have been tens of thousands of families for ten days without light, so without heating and telephone. The isolation of entire countries and fractions for seven to eight days prevented relief activity and assistance to the population, which is the primary objective of civil protection. The civil protection agencies of Lombardy and Veneto were ready for days to send other efficient and alerted means and men, but these were not called despite the needs. In this drama, on Saturday the committee launched the alarm for a possible shock in the Eagle with magnitude up to seven, creating a panic among the population and forcing the mayors to close the schools. This was an exercise in the discharge of responsibilities to the first citizens. Let the prosecutor investigate what happened at the hotel Rigopiano, but what to do for an efficient and effective resistance and response to natural disasters and emergencies that too often affect our country? We need system actions and extraordinary powers. We need a reorder thought and thought out by Civil Protection, with a clear command line and a single commander-in-chief, a general with full powers. We need clear rules for who does what and how long. Administrative procedures must be speeded up to deal with the emergency and reconstruction. For contracts, works and services, negotiated procedures must be carried out using white lists. Proceeding with the races in time of war, as Mayor Pirozzi of Amatrice says, is pure madness. Appropriate resources are needed for municipalities that have experienced heavy cuts in recent years (over 8 billion euros since 2012). Mayors need resources and the obligation for municipalities to have a civil protection plan should also be provided for. Unfortunately - let's say - in Italy there are regions where less than half of the municipalities has a civil protection plan. In particular, the Provinces need resources, which have been "emptyed" irresponsibly with the so-called Delrio law (the Minister who used to be with you in the Chamber, President Gentiloni Silveri) and subsequent laws of stability. It was irresponsible, on the slope of constitutional reform, to leave the state's bodies with competence on roads and schools without resources. Last week, in Abruzzo, the provincial roads were totally blocked. We must therefore really focus on prevention. No more chatter. We need land protection, buildings that are seismically adequate and, above all, adequate resources for local authorities. In particular, there can no longer exist that those who are called to lead the emergency and reconstruction are hindered by the asphyxiating bureaucracy and, above all, must act in fear of ending up in trial for even formal error. We need a safeguard for the commander-in-chief who must be called to lead the emergency and reconstruction. These are the proposals put forward by the North League. However, we must all try to understand what did not work and instead this does not happen: to take decisions like yesterday's - I am referring to the approval by the Senate Assembly of the urgency procedure for a draft law delegation on the reorganization of civil protection - means - this yes - to exploit and speculate on the earthquake and snow affair. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group and the Senators Quagliariello and Scibona]] Giving Italians a messy efficiency service is not the appropriate response to emergencies. This is not how a service to the country is carried out. This means, once again, betraying the expectations of Italians and mortifying the efforts of many mayors who last week were at the forefront and did not sleep for consecutive nights. It means mortifying the efforts of hundreds of men of the Fire Department, Civil Protection, Alpine Rescue, the Red Cross, ANPAS, the Forces of Order and the many volunteers who have been working incessantly for days, risking even their lives, as happened with the fall of the helicopter of the helicopter. To them we can only say one thing: you are truly immense. Finally, from the North League address a prayer for those who are no longer among us and for the families of the victims of the hotel Rigopiano and of the six of the helicopter of the helicopter, as well as for those who died assiderata because it was not reached by the means of rescue. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group and the Senators Compañera and Quagliariello. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-747.ana.u12	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-747.ana.u13	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-747.ana.u14	PELINO (FI-PdL XVII). Madam President, representatives of the Government, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to thank President Gentiloni Silveri for coming to the Senate to inform us of the situation and the initiatives he intends to take. What happened in my region, Abruzzo, seems to be the chronicle of a tragedy announced: a hotel built in an area at risk within a natural park, a weather alert that provided very difficult conditions, intense and repeated movements of the earth, the danger avalanches, a car of the emergency absolutely inefficient despite being in areas where the snow falls copious every year. And the rescue has been left to the good will of a few heroic champions, who have done much more than what they are paid for, demonstrating a generosity and dedication to their truly exceptional profession, saving lives, adults and children. And unfortunately still too many innocent victims, to whom our thoughts and prayers go. A thought also to the people who fell yesterday with the rescue helicopter. We are faced with a complete loss of the credibility of the state, because the main choices of economic policy have been wrong, giving themselves to an unprepared bureaucracy, slow and, in some cases, incapable. A state apparatus that is not able to understand the situations, that does not ensure the maintenance of the roads affected by atmospheric events that are extraordinary, but not unmanageable, that keeps still the snow sweep turbines, that does not control the electric lines guaranteeing the light and the heating in the houses, probably also because the funds made available for the emergency have proved insufficient. Civil relief resources, including disaster interventions and civil protection funds, have even been cut by EUR 320 million this year by the latest Stability Act. As well as the famous 6 billion for post-earthquake reconstruction will be distributed over thirty years. But how is it possible to think of a reconstruction that lasts so long? We are not surprised, then, if our compatriots are outraged by a welcome that concerns others, but not them. This is not populism, because the forgotten have become Italian citizens, forced after five months by the earthquake to live in tents, not to be able to move because the roads are blocked, not to receive fruit and vegetables, not to be able to feed the animals, not to be able to rebuild because the absurd environmental constraints have not yet allowed to remove and separate the different debris of the earthquake. Mr President-in-Office of the Council, we therefore call on you to put in place genuine and immediate resources and to give a simplification turn to the work of civil protection; but we also call on you to streamline the still too cumbersome procedures for reconstruction, by providing for faster times and the allocation of contributions in certain times. The snow will melt with the arrival of spring, but we cannot afford to leave our people waiting for the next winter still in a tent. [[Applause from the FI-PdL XVII Group and Senator Fucksia.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-747.ana.u15	He's enlisted to speak Senator Quagliariello. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-747.ana.u16	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, we fully agree with you on thanking the men involved in this emergency for their self-denial. We agree with you on the optimism of the will expressed in your speech. We do not agree with you on the reconstruction of the facts and we say so without any exploitation. We chose to go to the places of the emergency without even making a press release and we found situations of exclusion not worthy of a civil country, first of all on the energy level. There are tens and tens of thousands of utilities left powerless (estimated at over 500,000 people) for several days. Currently, and the data is partial, there are still at least 15-20,000 non-powered utilities. Among other things, the supply of energy is guaranteed by temporary generating sets and many are still stored and not taken to their destination. From the point of view of the emergency, men's self-denial must be reported; from the point of view of prevention, the lack of investment in networks must be highlighted. In fact, there was a lack of gas oil for the supply of generating sets and there were delays, inefficiencies and malfunctions. Above all, the population of the mountain today is exhausted. As far as road transport is concerned, there are few means available. The turbines arrived late and entire areas remained isolated and without lighting for days. Even today, not all places and houses have been reached. There are very clear signs of underestimation at the central level. Agriculture and livestock: Mr President, the chilling images we have seen do not refer to this emergency, but to the one following the earthquake at the end of October, when provisional stables had been promised that they would have come in time and that the farmers of Lazio, Marche, Abruzzo and Umbria have not yet seen. [[Applause from Senator Fucksia.]] Mr President, we must distinguish what was absolutely unpredictable, such as the seismic event and its duration, from what was absolutely predictable, because snow in Abruzzo - I assure you, having lived there for nine years - is not a coincidence and is not something unpredictable. [[Applause from Senator Fucksia.]] Today, in the face of this situation, we must ask ourselves about the state of our civil protection, about the management of our energy network, about the weakening of the public apparatus, which has also occurred because of the situation created with the Provinces. There is a category that signals the return of civil countries: countermodernisation. We would not want this category to apply to our country. Let me say one last thing, Mr President: it is very bad to make rankings with regard to emergency situations and pain and I believe that they must be avoided at all, but in Abruzzo there is the particularity of an emergency that has lasted since 2009. Just see the new damage that has been caused in the countries of the so-called crater. In that region, which has the additional peculiarity of an entire affected territory (all four provinces), there are depopulation and desertification of entire areas, relocation of businesses and serious problems for tourism, which was a real resource. A special law for Abruzzo is needed, Mr President, not only to speak of an emergency, but also to look forward to and relaunch this tormented land. What you mentioned about Ignazio Silone is a sign of the deep roots of this martyrdom. [[Applause from Senator Fucksia.]] Finally, Mr President, the emergency is not over: what has happened these days will most likely lead to landslides and floods due to soil and structures and the consequences of snow and earthquakes. Let us be ready, so that we do not have to return to this House in a few months' time to talk about unpredictability for what is absolutely predictable. [[Applause from the GAL Group (GS, PPI, M, Id, E-E, MPL) and the Senators Castaldi, Fucksia and Rizzotti]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-747.ana.u17	He's enlisted to speak Senator Barani. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-747.ana.u18	Madam President, Mr President-in-Office of the Council of Ministers, in the face of the dramatic problems that have affected such a significant part of our country, the first thought of our Group must go to the victims, to those who have lost everything or almost everything, especially to those who are no longer there and have lost their lives in such a traumatic and tragic way. This feeling of human piety must prevail over all other considerations. We did not therefore appreciate those who, on the other hand, preferred to inveire when men, as you said, engaged in relief, were at work in often prohibitive conditions, with contempt for danger and a spirit of self-denial that cannot be obscured by criticism, albeit just, of the delays and contradictions that have occurred. That's why there's gonna be time and way. But at the moment of collective pain it was good to bring out that spirit of solidarity which must remain the glue of our national cohesion. I was very pleased, Mr President, that you mentioned Ignazio Silone, who - I remind you - was a great socialist and in times of difficulty this country has to refer to those who have a culture like mine. In the face of natural disasters of this magnitude, following the earthquakes that are beating countries and villages of central Italy, it was good to show that politics is united in mourning the victims, without stopping to question the fundamental reasons that have helped to make the final budget more dramatic. And that is what we must discuss today, with a sense of responsibility. Of course, we are faced with a sort of perfect storm, given the combination of exceptional weather conditions - the worst of the last forty years - and the succession of telluric shocks of the intensity that we all know. All this has inevitably contributed to making rescue action as difficult as ever, but the final catastrophe, marked by the deaths and sufferings of so many of our citizens, cannot be considered only the daughter of a cynical and cheating destiny: it is evident that those exceptional causes have operated on a soil that was fragile of its own and this interaction has had a disruptive negative effect. Ahead of everything, there is the lack of attention given to the problems of normal maintenance. Not only roads and paths (not to mention the waterways, as in the case of Calabria and Sicily; we all know how difficult it is: our fellow mayors cannot intervene on the woods, when these become rivers, or on the rivers when these become woods, because they do not have the powers), but the electricity grid itself has been abandoned to itself for years and the interruptions of electricity that have hit Municipalities and fractions of Abruzzo are the most eloquent testimony, nor is it worth the justification that those were impervious zones. For this very reason, Enel should step up its efforts and investments to ensure the provision of a general service: if this has not happened, there is a precise responsibility of management. It is, however, on Civil Protection that, in conclusion, the greatest points are drawn, not on the institution as such, but on its organization, which has shown all its limitations: lack of internal communication, lack of capacity to analyse the crisis situation, slowness in the organization of relief. Of course, Bertolaso and Gabrielli, who have always proved to be equal, we no longer have them, and the negative consequences of natural phenomena have been mitigated by the self-denial shown by its members, once they had the confidence of the disaster intervened, yet, is that organization not the model that, only a few years ago, other countries envied us? Since then, however, the appropriations have been granted with the dropper, if not even reduced, and its governance has undergone a process of bureaucratisation, also suffering the weight of the duplicity of the command, due to the presence of the extraordinary commissioner for reconstruction. We must focus on prevention and give back authority and funds to this Civil Protection, which must have the capacity to have men prepared for its command, because it would have sufficed one of those 146 turbines and various equipment to clear the way before that event happened and allow the many families who were in that hotel to return to their homes. [[Applause from the ALA-SCCLP Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-747.ana.u19	He's enlisted to speak Senator Panizza. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-747.ana.u20	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, representatives of the Government, I would like to begin by thanking President Gentiloni Silveri for informing Parliament about the conditions under which the earthquake zones and the measures the Government intends to take to deal with the emergency. Today Italy mourns the victims and is gathering around the fire department, volunteers, civil protection workers and alpine relief, as well as all those who in these days have shown a professionalism steeped in great courage and humanity. The coordination of civil protection, managed by the Autonomous Province of Trento, has worked in these days really with great efficiency, because moments and events like these require the maximum unity of all political forces and institutional actors. We need seriousness and serenity for effective and responsible management, in which there must be no room for the exploitation of low cabotage and an irrational, all emotional reading of the affair. In this respect, I very much welcome your call for responsibility on the part of everyone, President Gentiloni Silveri. As she pointed out, it was an exceptional phenomenon: two disasters occurring at the same time, the earthquake and the snow, can bring on their knees even the best of the protection systems. However, this cannot be an alibi for anyone. If there are criminal responsibilities, it is right to ascertain and prosecute them. This task, however, belongs to the judiciary and the whole policy should remain out of it, avoiding issuing judgments that are not in its prerogatives. On the other hand, it is up to politics, Parliament, to understand what needs to be improved in our protective devices. It is up to us to work for the reconstruction of the areas affected by the earthquake and to study how to increase the overall safety of our cities in the face of natural disasters of any kind, from earthquakes to hydrogeological failure. Delays in the delivery of small houses in the area of Amatrice must sound like an alarm bell. The Trentino, three weeks after the earthquake, delivered prefabricated buildings that allowed the regular beginning of the school year for elementary students, as well as there were many other initiatives of solidarity and closeness that alleviated the difficulties and given their small, significant contribution along the road of normality. Clearly, this is not enough. The real point is that the rules must be developed as soon as possible to give an extra gear to the reconstruction, starting with the timing of the reimbursements for the damages suffered, the reconstruction of the schools and the times of the release of the authorizations and of the start of the intense activities. A balance must be found between the effectiveness of the work and maximum guarantees of contrast for possible attempts to infiltration of organizations interested in speculating on reconstruction. From this point of view, it is good that the reform of civil protection has been brought to the House. This morning's analysis of the need to build a balanced system, with well-defined skills, a clear chain of command, with administrative transparency, avoiding that ripple of responsibilities, in particular with the municipalities, is very welcome. The role of the regions, Mr President, is very important and believe me that the chain of command is perhaps a bit complex today. The presence of municipal operational centers, coordination and rescue centers in the prefectures, regional operating rooms, Dicomac; here, I believe that the coordination between Region and Prefecture cannot be of a dualistic type, but that it must be a bit more effective and with full powers. Today we find ourselves in this frustrating condition, the result of some bad experiences of the past, so speed does not guarantee transparency and transparency produces bureaucratic delays, uncertainties and slowness. As a Group for Autonomies, since last August we have always offered our availability and given our contribution so that this would be the track. We will continue to do so even now, with that responsibility that is first of all a form of respect for Italians, for those territories that live such a difficult time. [[Applause from the Aut Group (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT) - PSI-MAIE.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-747.ana.u21	He's enlisted to speak Senator Tremonti. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-747.ana.u22	Mr President-in-Office of the Council of Ministers, Mr Senators, given the dramatic nature of the situation, although on the relative solemnity of this meeting, you have here made a serious call for responsibility. It is right, but responsibility also postulates the truth and the truth are also part of the limits of the action of its Government: limits of form, procedure and substance. In the procedure and in the form there are four consecutive, concatenated and contradictory orders: stop doing damage. With regard to the substance of the funds and the financial means, if you look at page 53 of Parliament's budgetary unit report, table on the funds available, you find only two billion euros actually available for reconstruction; everything else turns with Mussolini's tank technique: it is not a round game, it is a game of fraud. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group]] It's money spent already and elsewhere. And don't go on with the scene of Europe; Europe doesn't give us money anyway, it allows us to spend our money, but it doesn't take away our debts, it leaves us. I think this use of numbers is really cynical. The emergency in L'Aquila cost more or less 13 billion, that in Emilia more or less 13 billion; you told us - and having told you, it is true - 25 billion. Mr Gentiloni Silveri, you have guaranteed the availability of the funds: come back here next time, as soon as possible, and tell us where you find them and how you find them; you will certainly find the availability of this Parliament. However, I would ask you not to use the cynical form of philosophical parresia. A final invitation. In Piazza dei Santissimi Apostoli there are earthquakes: go there and say the same things to them. [[Applause from the GAL Group (GS, Pp, M, Id, E-E, MPL), LN-Aut and FI-PdL XVII]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-747.ana.u23	Senator Ceroni is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-747.ana.u24	Madam President, I too very much appreciate the measured and calm attitude of the President-in-Office of the Council of Ministers, because the country does not need to sneak up at the moment. You, President Gentiloni Silveri, are like me from Marche and you are a good representative of our hardworking nature and not prone to controversy. However, it cannot be said that the Marches, which I live and represent, are in dramatic conditions after what happened. The measures that the Government has taken to deal with the earthquake emergency have proved insufficient, inadequate and, in some respects, completely wrong. With measures based on the conviction that a tragedy can be yet another opportunity to steal, one risks losing sight of the objective of containing hardships, rebuilding and restarting hope. [[Senator Ceroni's microphone light starts flashing.]] Excuse me, Madam President, how many minutes do I have to speak? It is not possible to choke a debate like this! Can I talk to this flashing light? Let's get this over with and use our time properly! PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Calm down, Senator Ceroni, you have three minutes to speak, according to the arrangements that have been agreed with the President of the Council and with the Groups. But I'm gonna ruin everything and leave, Madam President, if you don't let me talk! Let me speak and express my thoughts! PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator Ceroni, calm down. You have three minutes, because your group's time has been articulated. You have three minutes, Senator Ceroni, because other Senators in your group have spoken. All the Groups have the same treatment, but other colleagues have asked to speak, splitting the time; otherwise they would have had ten minutes. CERONI (FI-PdL XVII). To date, Mr President, it has been exactly five months since the earthquake. Whole countries are deserted, inspections are stopped, citizens have been "deported" to the coast, the agricultural sector is abandoned to itself. According to a dispatch of Coldiretti, 635 stables were planned and considered necessary in the Marches; only 77 were brought to the place and only two are functional. There is something that has not worked: it is not possible that, after five months, they are ready and delivered to farmers only two stables. Then there is the problem of resources (to which Senator Tremonti mentioned earlier): the resources allocated to the earthquake are not sufficient. Or, by the way, why aren't hoteliers paid, who have hosted 5,300 people on the coast? It is EUR 30 million that are on the shoulders of hoteliers, who no longer manage to have supplies and are exasperated. You have announced a new measure, Mr President-in-Office of the Council: do so soon. It must be a simple and clear measure, which can allow designers to restart the design and to glimpse a hope, because to date we have not even put a brick. And do so soon, before the protest can lead to something uncontrollable. Today there is a demonstration in Piazza dei Santissimi Apostoli: people expect concrete answers. I, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, trust you; we are ready to make our contribution, but we have not yet been heard a single minute and not a single proposal has been collected and accepted. And yet we're there, we hear people, and we could be useful to this country. [[Applause from the FI-PdL XVII Group and Senator Fucksia]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-747.ana.u25	She's registered to speak Senator De Petris. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-747.ana.u26	Madam President, first of all, as Senators of the Italian Left, we want to express once again our grief, sorrow and closeness to all the victims and our closeness to all volunteers, to all the men and women of the fire service, the Alpine Rescue, the Forces of Order and to all those who in these hours are continuing heroically to do their work to try to save people. Now, President Gentiloni Silveri, you have appealed to a sense of responsibility. In all these days (as I hope you have noticed and appreciated), we did not want to be on the list of those who dispute, because we had to be close to the people who suffer and those who are working for the relief. This political custom of ours, however, cannot silence us on a number of issues which you, unfortunately, in your information, in our view have largely underestimated or silenced. In fact, it is true that the situation has been exceptional given the conjunction of the wave of snowfall and frost and the earthquake. This is certainly an exceptional condition, but we cannot at all be silent on delays, inefficiency and disorganization. How can we, President Gentiloni Silveri, fail to understand that something in the chain of command obviously did not work? The whole alert system didn't work. Now the judiciary will investigate, and this is your job, but I certainly want to mention the black hole in the prefecture, and I am not just referring to the notorious phone call that would have been underestimated by an official. I refer to the fact that the alert had apparently been given: there was a switch from grade two to four as far as the avalanche alarm was concerned and this was largely underestimated. The whole system, the chain of command and the alert system obviously did not work and this problem has arisen on an absolutely fragile and serious situation from an infrastructural point of view. What about Enel? You cannot help but know that some 60 million funds had recently been earmarked for the restructuring of the electricity grid. Still today there are a lot of people without electricity. In those territories, Mr President, from which I come, there is a problem of atavistic fragility, there is a problem of electricity and water infrastructure, but there is also another issue: you keep silent about the disaster that you have combined with the situation in the Provinces. The whole system of maintenance - especially under exceptional conditions such as these - of the provincial road network is almost abandoned, not to mention the rural road network. There is a system that, at a territorial level, is now in danger of collapse. This is a problem of resources and organization as well as of the chain of command of Civil Protection. Now, to continue to say that it was an exceptional event and that civil protection envy us all over the world means that we do not really and seriously want to face, President Gentiloni Silveri, the nodes on which we must intervene. We must take action to strengthen not only the centre but the whole chain. At territorial and municipal level, we need to implement civil protection systems. We can't just rely on heroes. Woe, President, to the country that can only rely on heroes. We have heroes and there are always examples of heroism, but a civilized country cannot rely solely on this. It is absolutely necessary, therefore, to intervene in order to determine how to deal, once and for all, with serious situations relating to the Apennines. We are not talking about it today, but it is clear that in exceptional situations such as these, the structural and abandonment problems in those areas are becoming acute. You talk about schools, but the schools in those territories are closing them, as the post offices and everything else have closed, not to mention the issue of territory. I no longer have time, but what about delays in reconstruction? It cannot be said that things are going well; you cannot see the spectacle of a raffle for the assignment of 25 wooden houses. If we do not really want to tackle the issue of the procurement system and how reconstruction is taking place, in the face of another exceptional event that we should be preparing in a structural way, given the general situation of climate change, we will once again risk having to entrust ourselves only to heroes. [[Applause from the Misso-SI-SEL Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-747.ana.u27	He's enlisted to speak Senator Mancuso. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-747.ana.u28	Madam President, Mr Gentiloni Silveri, thank you for having responded so quickly. This certainly allows us to clarify what has happened and, above all, to remove, at least hopefully, from the political polemic, the demagogic and instrumental one, such a dramatic event. So dramatic that it should have remained in its own right, and instead - and it pains us deeply - it has become an instrument of contention, as if we were in the election campaign. I want to say this clearly: it is necessary, never as at this moment, to lower the tones, avoid unnecessary walkways and turn with due respect to those thousands of families bent by this tragedy. Politics returns to its role of addressing and resolving citizens' problems by providing solutions. That's why we're here. His presence in this House today, President Gentiloni Silveri, is of considerable value and will enable the Commission to confront the political forces, taking into account the real situation and receiving, I hope, interesting ideas on how to intervene and manage this emergency. Allow me - and not to make an exercise of rhetoric, but because we feel it strongly and intimately - to praise the Forces of Order, volunteers, men and women who in these days, with enormous sacrifice and commitment, have done everything in their ability to save lives, bring comfort and first care, unfortunately sacrificing, as we have seen, even themselves. Well done, President Gentiloni Silveri, to ask Minister Pinotti, here present, for a further and strengthened commitment of the Army, so that it is perceived that the physical presence of the State in these places is maximum and constant. Just as your request to Europe was appropriate that the resources that have been allocated and the resources that will still need to be found should not be subject to the judgment of the cold budgetary rules of European discipline, Italian requests which have found a first important response in the statements of the Commissioner for Economic Affairs Moscovici. Last Friday the Council of Ministers extended the effects of the declaration of the state of emergency adopted with the resolution of 25 August 2016 and allocated 30 million euros for the very first emergency, as a response to requests received from the territories in the first hours following last week's shocks. These resources are added to the EUR 4 billion already provided for in the budget law. In particular, the agricultural and livestock sector needs specific measures and, in this respect, Minister Martina has taken action with a meeting with Commissioner Phil Hogan. Of course - you said it first, President Gentiloni Silveri - there have been obvious inefficiencies and dysfunctions. We are saying this forcefully and you are aware of this: we need a reordering and strengthening of the civil protection system. For our part, we have tabled amendments to the thousand-pronged decree to allow the installation and use for the emergency of mobile structures and to encourage private reconstruction activities and we know that the Government is already thinking of an ad hoc decree-law that can unify interventions on this issue. We therefore contribute with parliamentary work and leave no room for those who intend to feed sterile and divisive political polemics. It will be up to the judiciary to determine whether there are objective responsibilities for what has happened these days. We in this House have a very different task: we work to support the minds and activities of the affected populations and of all those involved in relief and assistance operations for months. To these little heroes, to these heroes of the next door, I feel, on behalf of the entire People's Area Group, to send our deep thanks for what has been done and to say strongly that we will not leave them alone to face this tragedy. [[Applause from the AP Group (Ncd-CpI)]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-747.ana.u29	Senator Castaldi is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-747.ana.u30	Mr President, in these days of emergency, drama and pain, first of all I want to express the emotional and sincere closeness of the entire Group of the 5 Star Movement to the families of the victims of the collapse of the Hotel Rigopiano and those who still hope to be able to embrace their loved ones, as well as to the families of the other victims caused by bad weather. The pain and suffering of the family members of the victims and of those who are still prisoners of the emergency deserve total respect. It is to them that our thoughts go and to the thousands of men and women who have been working tirelessly for days to save lives and to bring relief to the many families still isolated. The volunteers of the Red Cross, of the National Alpine and speleological Relief Corps, of Civil Protection, citizens, doctors, nurses and all the operators deserve only admiration, praise and it is a duty to tighten around them. They have been and are still days of emergency, drama and pain and all those who work in these hours saving lives and helping in complicated, difficult conditions, at the limit of the human, have our respect. Central Italy has been brought to its knees by a violent wave of bad weather. To the snow and to the frost, have been added the violent earthquake shakes of the past days, that have infiered on the territories already hit by the earthquakes of August and October and have probably provoked the Slavina that has overwhelmed the Hotel Rigopiano of Farindola. To date, there are deaths and dispersals, and unfortunately, the sad budget is set to increase. But emotion and solidarity cannot erase anger and indignation over what has happened. You can't stay silent and pretend nothing. There are those who, however, have almost claimed and claim that indignation, anger, the demand to identify and denounce institutional responsibilities are sidelined, they claim that they are postponed to a later, to a generic later! Who knows the history of my Region and that territory, knows, instead, that the institutional responsibilities are there and are clear and it is precisely because of the respect, on the contrary, that we must, from the beginning, begin to ask who are responsible for this situation! [[Applause from the M5S Group]] I ask you, President: to date, how many politicians, how many administrators, how many builders have paid for the various events that have taken place? I'll tell you what, few. Maybe no one. Today we count 13,523 displaced in the areas affected by the earthquake, half a million people remained without light and without heating due to an electric blackout still not completely resolved, entire municipalities, especially in the province of Teramo, remained isolated, with the roads not travelable and the mayors completely abandoned, without means to be able to shovel the snow and free the roads, thousands of people without water services, roads also very important not travelable. There are still isolated people and farms and hamlets reachable with extreme difficulty. If anyone wants to say that the level of prevention, compared to this extraordinary wave of snow, was adequate and the number of means put in place sufficient, President, he takes responsibility for it. It's not the snow. The centre of Italy has been overshadowed by a number of errors, underestimates, delays and even incompetence. And the failure of those who were to prevent this disaster and help the populations in difficulty is before everyone's eyes. Snow and earthquake have certainly been a combo arranged that, once again, in Italy has caused us to be enraged and furious to a general and overall unpreparedness of the institutions, starting from the organizational system of the Civil Protection and of the Region, which have shown that they are not able to deal with emergencies of this type, showing themselves completely unprepared, unable to act quickly and to guarantee the means and men needed. All this despite the arrival of the very strong disturbance was known at least five days in advance. It was known, Mr President, and winter in general cannot be regarded as an unpredictable event. In short, a failure, a failure before everyone's eyes! The mayors of the municipalities involved in the emergency report the delays in the rescue and the tragedy of the Hotel Rigopiano tells us: the email with the request for help was sent from the hotel 11 hours before to the prefecture of Pescara, the mayor and the provincial police. And it is a hundred times more disarming to measure the abyss that lies between the moving commitment of so many workers and volunteers, and the unpreparedness or superficiality of too many people unfit to occupy places in the chains of command. This is now evident and acclaimed. Among other things, in some territories, such as mine, the Alto Vastese, the emergency was already going on from the disturbance of the Epiphany, with isolated centers and a first blackout of proportions already quite serious. What didn't work, then? Whose responsibilities are they? We ask these questions, but we also ask you, Mr President. Have all the measures and activities planned as a result of the alerts received been prepared without delay? Give us an answer. What information has been provided between the various avalanche risk levels? What motivations and responsibilities are there on the lack of means? How many actual means and equipment are available to local and national authorities, civilian and military police forces and relief bodies for this kind of situation? We want these answers and, above all, the citizens want them. What were the reasons, the causes of the interruptions and the lack of timely restoration of electricity supply to the utilities even for eight days? And again: how many investments are made in the maintenance of the lines and the electricity distribution network? We will ask to verify the respect of the convention between Terna and the Ministry of Economic Development in the part relative to the continuity of the supply of the distribution service and that relative to the obligations of maintenance for the Abruzzo Region. I would remind you that these are all public charges, billed. We know sadly well, in the light of this experience, that we are no longer users but customers for ENEL and Terna. We wouldn't want to become a client for the government, too! I would like to take this opportunity to inform you that this morning the conference of the heads of groups of the Regional Council of Abruzzo gave a mandate to our President to ask you directly for the resignation of the summits of ENEL, unanimously. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] With the Midia reform you have helped create a situation of confusion, in which it is not clear who should do what; you have deprived this country of the State Forestry Corps, subtracting from the community a body that had the means and knowledge to do much in situations like these. So, in the middle of an emergency, we met with the former helicopter base of the Rieti Forest Corps closed down and three helicopters grounded. With the Delrio reform you pretended to close the Provinces and left them fundamental functions, including road, but without the money to manage them. From here the many roads blocked, without turbines or snowshoeing in operation. And meanwhile, President, this country is suffering. It suffers for the bureaucracy, which prevents spending the 28 million euros of donations; it suffers because the funds allocated to the fleet means of the National Firefighters Corps for 2016 (5 million euros) and those destined to the planning environmental infrastructures always for 2016 (another 3 million euros) have not yet been spent.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-747.ana.u31	Conclude, please.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-747.ana.u32	CASTALDI (M5S). Allow me to finish, President. It suffers from carelessness and years of wretched policies that have made our territories fragile and vulnerable. It was built where you couldn't. In Abruzzo for at least twenty years missing the map of avalanches. Prevention against hydrogeological failure is non-existent. As denounced at the Abruzzo Forum of Water Movements, that hotel was built over flows and accumulations of pre-existing debris, including those from avalanches. We wonder how many other sites like Rigopiano there are in Abruzzo and Italy, and who has to monitor them to prevent other tragedies, in an exceptional situation like the one that is experiencing Central Italy. Citizens have the right to know the truth. Reassurance is insufficient. Citizens want to be alerted and secure. Mr President, excuses are not enough. It is not enough to compensate for the pain of the many citizens left in the cold, stuck in their homes or dead under a Slavina; it is not enough excuses to prevent what has happened so that it does not happen again. [[Applause from the M5S Group and Senator Molinari]] . Many congratulations). PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator Gasparri is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-747.ana.u33	Mr Gentiloni Silveri, we asked for your intervention in Parliament and thank you for doing so. Of course, we share the view that polemics must be avoided. As a Group of Forza Italia from the beginning we have offered ample willingness to collaborate, in the measures, in the meetings and also in the daily dialogue, where possible and necessary, with the institutions of Government. However, if we are to ban polemics, we cannot ban the truth. We do not poison the wells if they refer to facts, which we are submitting to your attention today for a story that is not just about the last dramatic emergency and then fate, which fell down, once again, yesterday, with the further accident. We express our closeness to the people, our condolences to the victims and our support for the heroic representations of all the various bodies of the State or of volunteering that are acting in the spirit of self-denial that you have rightly emphasized. However, being unable to ban the truth, in the very limited time available to me, I make some warnings because there is no way here (we will do it elsewhere) to articulate a broader illustration. I quote the facts we observe. Yesterday Coldiretti, which is an organization that has also been much spent in support of the previous government and the current one, said that in the Marche two stables were built out of 370. The affected area is a widespread area in which agriculture has been particularly damaged and Minister Martina, who was here this morning, often rightly speaks of it: well, only two stables out of 370 have been built, in the overall area the collapsed stables are 3,000 and it has been five months. It's a staggering fact! I emphasize the appeal that the mayor of Ascoli, Guido Castelli, addressed to the Government, appeal that, although I knew Castelli, I read yesterday on "Il Messaggero" and that has not yet had an answer, neither from you, nor from the Minister Fedeli, although speaking on behalf of all the mayors. On schools and agility how does this cerino game work? Who decides? Do individual mayors close schools forever? The earthquake, alas, is repeated over time. There is an alarm cry from a mayor who, on behalf of many, asks for an answer. Today it would be useful for him or others to make a phone call, give a nod. I understand that responsibility is delicate, even for those who lead a government, but the mayors wonder how this game of cerino works. Should the Provinces be abolished? We pay tribute to this pean, commonplace, after which we have said several times, even in this House with the very demagogic Delrio-style laws - I am sorry that Delrio is not here - that the tasks of the Provinces could not be abolished. The school buildings and the streets, the two emergencies of this situation, who cures them? Do we abolish the Provinces? Renzi in the referendum campaign every day said that we would save who knows how much. Have we spared money for citizens' safety and road control? The Provinces don't take care of it, but someone has to take care of it! So think about flag and demagogic laws. There have been so many controversy about civil protection. Dear President Gentiloni Silveri, I do not recall that you were the protagonist, but colleagues from your party, in other fringes, did not have the responsible behavior that we all have on all occasions and that President Berlusconi has publicly expressed. Well, I remember that in Abruzzo, for another earthquake, the first houses were delivered - brick houses - in a hundred days: here we are at the draw of 20 houses, as other colleagues have said. I understand that there is a need for transparency on procurement procedures, but you too have been wondering these days whether the procedures that have been introduced by dismantling - mistakenly - the Civil Protection Act are the best for the emergency. Since we have to review those rules and you yourself have said so, be careful: I have seen that we should now make direct assignment in emergency cases, but with the endorsement of Cantone. I don't know how many cantons there are (there's one who was Romeo's lawyer, Bruno Cantone, Raffaele's brother, but we'd like to figure out who's gonna check it out. With regard to speed, the reconstruction at that time was better and more efficient, the allocation of civil protection was increased from two billion with Berlusconi to 400 million with Renzi. In Pescara, President Gentiloni Silveri, there is an investigation by the judiciary. But that person, who responded in that way on the phone, put her on vacation, waiting for the judiciary to decide if that response is also of criminal relevance. Make yourself available to the staff. I spoke personally to the gentleman who is telling all the TV stories about that phone call. I mean, things aren't good. We are willing to cooperate, but for Casa Italia and what else we have seen the shows, also in this Chamber: Senator Renzo Piano gave us a beautiful lesson. Since he's a senator, he could have come here today to talk about the earthquake and the victims, and to make an act of homage. Maybe... [[The microphone is automatically switched off.]] Some lauta fee! I'm done, Madam President. President Gentiloni Silveri, our collaboration is there, but the shortcomings are there and the models of the past were better, much more valid and much more effective. [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-747.ana.u34	She's enlisted to speak Senator Pezzopane. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-747.ana.u35	Madam President, we have days of unspeakable grief and mourning behind us. We know in our heart that we will still need so much, so much effort and that the pain will not go away. But neither the one, the fatigue, nor the other, the pain, can take over and not even the easy demagogy, that of bar talk, can take over in this House. There is an important attention of the state, there is in these hours and there has been in the last few days and there are inappropriate comparisons with other events, which there is no time today to deal with but for which there is an investigation commission ready to deepen. Now, as President Gentiloni Silveri said, there is a need for a qualitative leap, made of still prompt emergency, of relaunching the instruments, of reconstruction and economic revival of that territory. It is, for example, a question of reasoning on a sort of tax free zone to recover investment, to tackle the restoration of the territory at risk of failure, to provide a plan for public construction (especially and immediately for schools) and to block the escape of families with small children who want to leave those territories. I thank the President-in-Office of the Council for the concreteness with which he has addressed the issues today and for his presence here in the Senate. I thank him for what he has done with his government and for what he has said, quietly but firmly, these days. Above all, I thank him for what he will do. The President of the Council spoke of a decree-law and the Group of the Democratic Party, here in Parliament, will, as always, give its strong, valid and concrete contribution, because there is a need for a lot of state, a lot of government and a lot of political and social cohesion, people who do their work quickly and well. We will remember the snowfall of the past few days as one of the most important of the last hundred years. In Abruzzo I have always lived and I haven't remembered such a catastrophic thing. We have to go back years and years. On my region has fallen an average of almost 20 million tons of snow, with ninety-six uninterrupted hours of snow, rain, wind and storms and here we talk about it as if it were a matter of ordinary administration. It wasn't, and it's not yet. While all this happened, as the President-in-Office of the Council recalled, our land, the Alto Atterno, was the epicenter of an earthquake of four shocks above five degrees, one of which reached 5.5 degrees of magnitude. A catastrophe, a gigantic problem. But while this was happening, the most beautiful Italy was already in the street, in the snow and at high altitude; a complex reaction and full of courage, with the means that could be made to arrive. I also thank Minister Pinotti, who has been ready and effective. There was an army of volunteers and people. Meanwhile, the tragedy of the Hotel Rigopiano occurred. There are still people in there to extract, while hope, unfortunately, weakens; because death has arrived faster, faster than rescuers, who have faced an incredible storm: Fire department, alpine rescue, law enforcement, even in hallucinating conditions, have arrived. We have followed everything, with the ministers and with the Undersecretaries. Thank you all and thank the Deputy Minister Bubbico, there present, soberly, without statements, concretely, ready to give help and suggestions. Dear Deputy Minister, your contribution and your presence has been very, very appreciated by everyone. [[Applause from the PD Group and Senator Uras]] That is why the attacks on civil protection are meaningless in these moments and hours: delegitimizing it is absurd, inconceivable. Instead, we need civil protection that has the levers of command. Between the omnipotent Civil Protection of the past and the one facing today's challenges, we must find a way to strengthen it, as the President-in-Office of the Council has said these days and hours. Let us not replace the judiciary, which is doing its job: it is not up to us the summary trials of the Holy Inquisition; it is not up to us to investigate e-mails, messages; it is up to us to find the right measure and find a way to intervene on those people. It will be good to recover a chain of command and see how such a serious and dramatic blackout was possible, following the lacked interventions and the lacked investments of ENEL and Terna. We need to understand why ANAS closes the streets for three days, with snowfalls even much smaller. All this is needed, but above all it is necessary to make decisions, to help the mayors, to support the fire department and all volunteers. There is a boy, a soldier of our army, Mattia Popesso, who was very young and brave, walked for two kilometers, in the middle of a snow barrier that was like concrete, carrying on his shoulders the little Rachel of five years and saving her. [[Applause from the PD Group]] This is our Italy, it is the Italy of the mayor of Crognaleto, firefighter, who forgot to be mayor in jacket and tie, he put on his uniform and saved two people. And the SPRAR boys, our refugees, who in Castel del Monte, right now, as we speak, are still shoveling snow. It is clear that we must equip the mountain more and better and, in particular, the seismic mountain of our Regions of this martyred Central Italy: the Marches, Umbria, Lazio and all the mountain Apennines must be strengthened. Mr President-in-Office of the Council, I am very firmly saying this: I have found the President of the Commission's utterances very inappropriate. He is required to do scientific insights, as well as the whole scientific community; but is it right that he externally, so brutally, a news such as that of an earthquake of 6,5-7 degrees, which means 30 times the earthquake of Amatrice? Is it right to throw this news there to people already desperate and destroyed? Is it fair to tell us that the Campotosto dam can break and produce a tragedy like that of the Vajont? Is it fair to tell the mayors that if they have insecure schools, they don't have to let the kids into school? This is not fair and is in stark contrast to the examples of those people I mentioned earlier. We recover, then (as you have done), with the right tools, with the prefectures and with the active ministries a force and an energy that can support the mayors, we equip the territory. Then we remember the victims who fell with the helicopter yesterday morning, on the way to help other people. Among them is also the councilman of a small town that had been to the Rigopiano, after shoveling the snow for days in his small center of Santo Stefano di Sessanio. For students who have lost many days of school, a decree from the Minister of Education is needed so that they do not lose the school year and serve the resources announced by the President of the Council. It is also necessary to recover the strong image damage that will block, if we do not intervene, the tourist promotion of our beautiful lands and the value of our villages, so fiercely affected. Probably, we will need to intervene on the crater, help farmers and farmers, intervene with the crater by way of derogation, but these are all things that we must strengthen our project on the Apennines, what we have called Casa Italia and that will be in the decree-law announced by President Gentiloni Silveri. I conclude by reminding you that while we speak, some bodies are still being pulled out, people I know and we know, because ours is the land of small towns, where everyone knows each other and everyone loves each other. Although in despair, in pain and in contrast, I want to continue to believe that our country is a great country, a strong country that will be able to react again this time. The faces of the four children rescued from our Forces of Order, our Army, our volunteers - Gianfilippo, Ludovica, Edward and Samuel - speak clearly and from those faces we must start again to rebuild the strength of our Apennine areas so martyred, the strength of our Italy. [[Applause from the PD Group, CoR and ALA-SCLP. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-747.ana.u36	I declare closed the debate on the information of the President of the Council of Ministers, whom I thank for his willingness.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-747.ana.u37	On behalf of the Assembly, I greet the teachers and students of the Institute including Marco Emilio Scauro in Minturno, in the province of Latina, who are attending our work. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-747.ana.u38	The next item is the continuation of the debate on document XXIII, point 18. I would remind you that at yesterday's sitting the rapporteur presented the written report, the debate took place and the motion for a resolution No 1 was tabled. I call the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-747.ana.u39	Madam President, with the difficulties that you will understand, I would like to recall the arguments that we interrupted yesterday, which rightly gave way this morning to an important and decisive debate, also for the next acts that this Parliament will have to face. First of all, I would like to thank all my colleagues who spoke in the general debate yesterday, because they confirmed the importance and validity of the facility that was adopted in the report approved by the Anti-Mafia Commission and the responses to the legislator, which in recent months has begun an important debate on the reform of the game system in our country. Almost all the speeches have been shared, albeit with specific accents and differentiations on certain issues, as was the case in the House of Deputies during the same debate that took place last week. I hope that the vote we will be voting on Senator Mirabelli's first-signed resolution will be consistent and consistent with the speeches I have heard in this House. This is an issue which, as has been reiterated, is of absolute priority for the legislator, since we come from a past that has spelled out in a rugged way and followed several measures, starting in particular from 2003, and not defining a real organic law that regulates the matter of gambling in our country. As I have tried to recall in the report, the regulations governing betting are very broad and the whole offer has been in fact governed by the civil code, by the criminal law, by special laws, by judgments of the Constitutional Court, by innumerable decrees in this matter and also by the single text of the laws of public security, and, as colleagues will remember, by measures contained in the laws of stability, such as those of 2016 and, in particular, of 2017. Surely an opportunity has been missed, but I think it will be possible to recover promptly, with the tax delegation law of 2014, which had foreseen a reordering of the matter. Subsequently, the decree was not converted into law and an initiative was taken by my colleague Mirabelli to include those contents in a bill of parliamentary initiative which is being examined by the Finance Committee. Why do we need to put our hands on the sector in an organic way? Because, over the years, an offer has been built to say the least enormous: we have a total of 63 types of instant lotteries, eight games at a distance to totalizer, 308,230 newslots in operation, almost 52,000 videolottery in operation (I refer to data of 2015), seven competitions based on sports, five types of numerical games to totalizer, five on horseback, 5.436 sites of betting already inhibited by the Agency of Customs and Monopolies at the date of 8 July 2015 and two types of bingo and salt, even at a distance. As you will understand, this is an offer that produced, in 2015, a collection that exceeds 88 billion euros, of which only a little more than eight remained in the treasury. Many have pointed out that these revenues should be offset by the social costs that this supply produces, estimated at some billions. We have achieved this overall amount for two main factors: a facilitated taxation applied to games, which are more new and less paid to the treasury, and a greater payout, i.e. the return in winning, which increases the appetite of the different offers. It is a collection whose mass shows very marked regional differences and which in 2015 recorded the record in Lombardy, with over 14 billion euros of collection, while only 132 million euros were collected in Valle D'Aosta, taillight. The expenditure divided by game types points out that in recent years development has been important and differentiated. And of course also the proposals we have made, with regard to the permeability of this system by criminal organizations, must lead us to take specific measures to make life as difficult as possible for criminals who have already settled in many parts of the game chain. I think of the primacy that holds in particular the first two voices, newslots and videolottery, but also the fourth place, occupied by lotteries and scratch cards, which take on a different dimension and importance, but being part of the total amount of the entire collection. I then spoke about the differentiated taxation of all games and the fact that in the last two laws of stability there was the will on the part of the legislator to correct a levy that was particularly fierce - pass me the term - on the old games and instead was less on the new ones. The corrections have been made with the last two stability laws that have intervened on various aspects of the game: I quote the increase of the single e-revenue levy (PREU) on the newslots, which has gone from 13 to 17.5%, and the reduction at the same time of the payout and, therefore, the return of the winnings, increasing the taxation of 0.5 percent on videolotteries (VLT). We then intervened on advertising - as some colleagues pointed out - albeit partially, through the prohibition of advertising games with cash payout on all the generalist televisions in a certain time zone, even if there is a part of the measure that should have further specified this prohibition. Much has been done to devote resources to the fight against pathological gambling, which is a consequence, as several colleagues have pointed out. Since 2016, the Pathological Gambling Fund has been established, with a budget of €50 million to be allocated between the Regions and the Provinces on the basis of criteria determined by a ministerial choice. It is clear that this is a choice that has been added - for example - to the resources and definitions already foreseen by the Ministry of Health in 2015. The sanctioning procedures for bans in public establishments have also been changed, violations of telematic and online connections, which obviously, in addition to being a forerunner of organised crime infiltrations, also take away a turnover and revenues from the state estimated at several billions. I believe that the work that we have produced and which the Commission has approved without any votes against - as has been mentioned in the report - has provided proposals capable of giving an overall picture of the measures to be taken to make life difficult for the mafia and criminal organisations that have long understood, and perhaps even long before the legislator, the scope of the interests that this sector had for them. In this regard, several judges and prosecutors of the Republic stressed its importance. I remember the words of the prosecutor of Reggio Calabria, Cafiero De Raho, who highlighted on an occasion how gambling, together with drug trafficking, today appears the most lucrative deal with which to fill the chests of the thighs. Through the gamble the 'ndrangheta, in particular in some territories, affirms and consolidates its own parasitic style, which ultimately allows it to draw huge gains by operating in a very complicated plot, in which sometimes legality and illegality are confused. So, after reconstructing the national, regional and local regulatory framework, the report has proved - as I have tried to say, and I take back only a very few points in my introduction - to show how different, and yet established and clarified in a timely way, the infiltration of organised crime in this area. The report presented by the ROS of the Carabinieri in one of the hearings we held last year told us very well. The Carabinieri have told us that such modalities are manifested in the traditional extortive activity, similar to that exercised for the other commercial activities, vis-à-vis the concessionaries of the gambling rooms; in the imposition of videopoker machines in the existing public establishments in the territories under their control; in the infiltration of companies, betting points and gambling rooms, both in the name of the forerunner, and through the participation of the companies that have obtained regular concession from the Customs Agency; or in the collection and management of illegal platforms of online sports betting, through the management of websites located in foreign countries, which are without concessions in Italy, but which nevertheless allow the game, in clear violation of the current legislation. More and more investigations have highlighted how the ability of criminal organizations has manifested itself in a timely manner, entering into any of the articulations from which the chain of play is constituted throughout the national territory. Today, as I have also said in the report, there is a major interest in online gaming and the entertainment industry, which is accounting for more than 50% of the entire industry. These modes have also gone into the sophisticated, hiring to their advantage flower of hackers and computer scientists, who, alongside the activity of renting and selling machines, have been able to produce and market counterfeit cards, which allowed only a partial transmission of the data of the volume of play or to interrupt them in the moments of greater play, so as to conceal a significant share of the gains, which obviously went and still go in the coffers of the organized criminality. I recall in this regard the Black monkey investigation, by the DDA of Bologna; the trial is underway at the court of Bologna, which involved a well-known 'ndranghetista, Nicola Femia, who had acquired control of companies accredited to the financial administration and conditioned, in a part of the territory of Emilia-Romagna, through the modalities that I have previously mentioned, the distribution of the machines not only in public establishments, but also in places of aggregation linked to the association of various matrix. The mafias, therefore, have seen and continue to see in the game a highly profitable business in itself and in itself, and not only because it allows money laundering of illegal origin. The report, which consists of 64 pages that I tried yesterday to summarize in the salient points, also tried to highlight how, given a certain amount of demand for total play, an increasing amount of demand addressed to legal products should correspond to a decrease in illegal games and, within them, those managed by organized crime. We have identified, albeit presumptuously, the reasons why, at least to date, this trend has not been recorded: there is - on the one hand - the potential for growth expressed by the demand for play and - on the other hand - the ability of the mafias to make gains in the flaws and interstices of the system. (The sitting was suspended at 12.04 p.m.) (The sitting was suspended at 12.04 p.m. and resumed at 12.04 p.m.) In this direction, therefore, there is the need to introduce and implement procedures and control tools that benefit or benefit from new technologies, the most advanced, in favour of transparency and traceability of operations, in order to break what is defined as a vicious circuit of reciprocal feeding between legal game and illegal game, so as to be able to stem, as much as possible, the presence of organized crime in the sector but above all to allow its removal. We have worked - as I have already said - on 23 proposals for legislative amendments on five areas and we have made two recommendations to the Government that we believe are necessary to find a concrete opportunity to be carried forward soon. I pointed out in the report - and several colleagues have also taken it up - that there is a need for the agreement of the State-Regions Conference to come to an end as soon as possible and - as has also been announced by the Undersecretary Baretta on several occasions - some of its contents can become the subject of an important measure by the Government that encloses them, hoping that many of the proposals that we have included within the report are also contained within it. We certainly need to regulate the sector, obviously looking at the two principles that I have tried to recall in the introduction: to reduce supply and demand for gambling and to combat lawlessness, organised crime and its pervasiveness. It is a struggle that must obviously be done at 360 degrees and making available to the Forces of the order and the judiciary new and more sophisticated instruments to conduct investigations, as well as, of course, modifying the legislation so that this is easier and you can carry out investigations of long course to reach the head of command of the entire system. We therefore need to draw everyone to their responsibilities. The operators of the various parts of the chain are not all the same as the financial and banking system is not all the same. To this end I would like to recall an important experience of a large banking group that is operating in solitary - alas - within the Italian banking system, in order to put in conditions, with a choice of corporate social responsibility, an ethical and even reputational choice, its customers to be informed and above all to prevent their involvement: I think of the system of online games through the cards that this institute has made not usable in online gambling, making available information materials in individual branches, promoting financial education in schools, making a handbook for families for the use of cards and the co-header of accounts, giving guidance to support administrators and information on how to manage the various products of the bank itself. I believe that it is a useful and important experience that indicates the assumption of responsibility by an important piece of the system that has to do with the bulk of the game involving millions of Italian citizens. Speaking of the reference to responsibility, I would like to remind you of the initiative to be condemned - many of us have done so and I, together with my colleague Mirabelli, from the Italian Football Federation, dating back a few months ago, to have a sponsorship relationship with a company (Intralot), controlled by another company (Gamenet) that is among the thirteen gamblers authorized by the Agency of Customs and Monopolies; a choice to be stigmatized that has provoked many protests by local administrators, in the context of the campaign Â Let's put ourselves at stake, and political forces, as well as the world of football (coaches and footballers), which has highlighted the contradiction that we are in no condition to interrupt from one day to the whole system of games in our country. Faced with this situation, someone may be called to set a good example, such as - for example - our national football team, which undoubtedly - as it has done in the past - can avoid putting a logo of such an invoice next to its name. And I remember that companies like Intralot and Gamenet - as journalistic investigations have then proved - owe our State 60 million tax evasion for the past years. At a time when the legislator decides to put his hand in this area, we also need other actors to set a good example by adopting a measure contrary to the choice made, since the resources it has generated can also be progressively filled up by others, oriented to show that it is possible to direct important choices to set a good example for our citizens. And I am referring above all to the world of sport, which in the past has been able to demonstrate - as many federations have done - that they can adopt ethical principles and social responsibility and, therefore, to give important indications to their members. For this reason, I believe that the work and debate we have done is very important and can give equally important and decisive support to the acceleration that Parliament must do on this front because - as I tried to say yesterday - the mafias have identified this sector as a priority for their illegal and criminal interests. We also need the legislator to be able to produce important innovations in this regard in order to prevent such a presence from being further maintained and enlarged and, therefore, to reduce it to a minimum. [[Applause from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-747.ana.u40	I call the representative of the Government, and I would also ask him to give his opinion on the motion for a resolution tabled.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-747.ana.u41	Mr President, first of all I would like to reiterate the Government's appreciation for the contributions that the report of the Parliamentary Committee of Inquiry on the phenomenon of mafias has been able to make; appreciation which we have already had the opportunity to make to the House at its meeting on 17 January last, which discussed exactly the same terms as the Commission's report. The work that has been presented to us has allowed us to analyse in depth the phenomenon of criminal infiltrations in the lawful and illegal game, focusing both on the aspects more directly linked to social and health consequences (such as pathological gambling dependence), and on more efficient measurement proposals, more able to ensure prevention and contrast to the action of the common or mafia malavitation that tries to penetrate in an increasingly pervasive way in that field for the purposes of money laundering or in order to ensure illicit profits. In particular, we share the need to make prevention and combating activities even more effective. In this respect, it would be desirable to introduce restrictions on the requirements for participation in tenders or public evidence procedures and for the issue, renewal or maintenance of concessions and authorisations in the field of public games for dealers of online distance gaming collection networks, as well as the extension of obstacles to participation in the same competitions. Similarly, the proposal for a review of the sanctioning, criminal and administrative machinery seems to be acceptable, with a view to a more effective action capable of ensuring concretely any form of obstacle to illegal behaviour. At the same time, with regard to concerns about the lack of knowledge of any preventative convictions carried out abroad by the aspiring dealers, I would like to point out that there has already been easier means of cooperation, through the adoption of more streamlined forms of recognition and registration in the register of convictions issued at European level. In this regard, it should be recalled that the recent implementation of Framework Decision 2008/675/JHA by Legislative Decree No 73 of 2016. The Government is also committed to the implementation of the Money Laundering Directive [49], as that Directive is an essential protection of the legality and enforcement of organised crime. We are moving in an area in which the principles of freedom of establishment must surely be contemporaneous with the control requirements imposed on individual national States. On this point, the Directive requires the adoption of particularly penetrating forms of supervision and control. It is precisely in this short period of time that the drafting of the draft legislative decree for transposition is about to be completed, which aims to enrich the current institutional architecture with appropriate regulatory instruments to mitigate and manage the risks of money laundering and terrorist financing. The supranational nature of the phenomenon of money laundering has led our country to equip itself with broader instruments of cooperation, implementing the principle of mutual recognition of confiscation decisions at European level and this with the adoption of legislative decree no. 137 of 2015. With regard to the areas of distance play and video lotteries, the Customs and Monopolies Agency, in sharing the concerns contained in the Vaccari report, has, however, pointed out that they are already in the field of technical and regulatory safeguards and others are contained in a regulation currently subject to the Community information procedure. On the other hand, it is also desirable to adopt certain rules, applicable throughout the national territory, for the hours of commercial operations and for measures to reduce the overall offer of gambling, in order to avoid differentiated behaviour of the administrations concerned and to eliminate the dispute even before the Constitutional Court determined by the individual regional laws. The report focuses, in fact, on the interventions put in place by the State, Regions and Municipalities to discourage the phenomenon of gambling, reaffirming the need to ensure active participation of local authorities in the development of strategies useful to counter ludopathy and to assess the social impact of gambling in the individual territorial realities. In this regard, the Unified Conference, whose involvement is provided for by the 2016 Stability Act, has since last year launched a comparison on the regulation of the sector, with the aim of ensuring the best levels of safety for the protection of the health, public order and public faith of players and to prevent the risk of access of children of age. In this context, the Government's proposal was to reduce the offer of public play and therefore the exposure of the State in an area that, on the one hand, guarantees important revenue from the era, on the other hand measures social consequences that cannot be neglected anymore. In particular, the Government has proposed a series of measures whose aim is to achieve a strong reduction of the offer of play, through a significant contraction and concentration of the points of sale and an increase of their quality standards, in a view of contrasting the ludopathy and so much to act - also through the new regulatory mode - to hinder and counter criminal penetrations. With this in mind, the proposed establishment of a new distribution system for lawful gambling, based on different articulations and types on the territory of gaming points of sale, could be more sustainable in terms of social impact, as proposed by the Commission, and together ensure easier administrative and police control, with the final effect of concentrating activities in a limited number of places where the game takes place in safe conditions and in compliance with the law. The comparison is still ongoing with local authorities and regions and it is desirable to close the agreement in a short time and with the broadest sharing between stakeholders. As far as the Internal Administration is concerned, I stress that the Department of Public Security aims to strengthen the action to prevent and combat crime in the field of gambling. To this end, since 2002 it has established in the 26 mobile district teams special interprovincial units of the police of the games and bets intended as investigative bodies able to conduct a systematic investigation activity on possible aggressions to the legality of the system. This device is coordinated by a central core at the Viminale and makes use of the contribution of a network of specialists operating within each non-district mobile team. In addition, since 2011, the Department of Public Security has had two specific joints: the Sportsbook Information Unit and the Sportsbook Investigative Group. The first, composed also of external experts, dialogues with the bodies of the sports world and prepares, by processing the news received, suitable strategies of prevention and contrast, also interfacing with foreign police; the second unit, composed exclusively by investigators, has a highly operational connotation, providing the connection of the activities of countering criminal infiltrations and of criminal interference in the field. It should also be recalled that, within the framework of the service for international police cooperation present in the same Department, the national point of contact for the match fixing has been identified, which develops international police cooperation with related training and prevention activities, using a supranational platform for the exchange of information related to the field, in line with the wishes formulated by the Parliamentary Commission. Moreover, in the international scene the phenomenon of cyberattacks for the denial of the service to which the report refers is known and frequent; attacks that can be directed towards very different targets, including portals for the offer of the online game. The critical infrastructures of national interest, monitored by the National Cybercrime Centre for the protection of critical infrastructures, incardinated in the postal police service and communications of the Department of Public Security, are identified by Article 1 of the decree of the Minister of the Interior of 9 January 2008; at the moment, among these, the Administration of Monopolies is not included. The possible identification of the same critical structure can be assessed in agreement with the competent financial administration. In conclusion, in sharing the contents of the report, the Government remains open to reflection and discussion on the issues under consideration, reaffirming that the key principles of regulation of this sector are the protection of players, respect of the prohibition of play for the minor subjects, the guarantee about the full transparency of the ownership structure and the correct operation of the dealers. For all these reasons, I support resolution No 1 tabled by Senator Mirabelli. [[Applause from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-747.ana.u42	I shall refer the document back to another sitting.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-747.ana.u43	We greet the students and teachers of the Istituto comprensivo Statale (Socrate-Mallardo) of Marano di Napoli, who are here to follow our work. Welcome to the Senate. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-747.ana.u44	Colleagues, in order to allow the Commissions wider working spaces in relation to the decrees provided for in the timetable and, in particular, to the 1st Commission, which today will also hold a joint meeting with the similar Chamber Commission for the first hearing of the Minister of the Interior, and to the RAI Parliamentary Supervisory Commission, which will have an important hearing of all RAI summits, I inform you that today's afternoon sitting will begin at 5 p.m. instead of 4.30 p.m.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-747.ana.u45	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-747.ana.u46	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-747.ana.u47	Mr Fornaro (PD). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I am here to remind you of Angelo Muzio, who died prematurely on Tuesday 17 January. Angelo Muzio was born in Frassineto Po, in the province of Alexandria, on May 3, 1959 and was senator of the Republic in the 14th legislature, from 2001 to 2006, and deputy in the XI, XII and XIII legislature (in the latter he was also commissioner of the Chamber of Deputies). He started young as a trade unionist of the CGIL and as promoter of the Territorial Chamber of the work of Casale Monferrato and was among the first to realize the asbestos emergency in Casale Monferrato and Casalese and to begin the fight. Angelo Muzio joined the split of the Communist Refoundation and was one of the protagonists of the decision to continue in the experience of the Government together with the olive tree in 1998, becoming one of the promoters of the Group of the Italian Communist Party. Finally, after 2007, he joined the Democratic Party. He was a long-term administrator: mayor of his small municipality, one of the roles he was most proud of, from 1995 to 2004; then vice mayor from 2004 to 2014 and still today, since 2014, he had returned to play this role again. He was provincial councillor, also in the elective system, and until last Tuesday he held the position of vice president of the Province of Alexandria, and had just been re-elected. He was also a member of the Congress of Local and Regional Authorities at the Council of Europe. Angelo Muzio has been an important figure of Alexandrian politics and of the politics of the House, a politician all round and - if I may - a figure for which politics always had a capital p. He had a listening ability, a vision and a united spirit that always marked his life as both political and administrator. Here I would like to recall in particular the profound sense of the institutions, which he has always interpreted not as an abstract place, but as a place of politics and politics, and his commitment to the flood victims or - as we used to say in those years - the bi-floods of his areas, which had the misfortune to see the houses invaded by the Po water in both 1994 and 2000. The photo circulated in the local newspapers is emblematic and portrays Angelo Muzio, then commissioner, with his boots in the mud that accompanied the minister of public works of the Nerio Nesi era. As a demonstration of his commitment, the day before his death Angelo Muzio was in Turin, at the table of the crisis of the company Mondial di Casale, where more than a hundred workers are at risk of the workplace. Angelo Muzio was a coherent man, a politician with ideal and strong values, a pragmatic and concrete administrator, always on the side of the workers and the reasons for the work. This was Angelo Muzio: a man of the left, with a life spent in the service of politics and republican institutions. We'll miss him. [[Applause from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-747.ana.u48	The Presidency supports the memory of Senator Muzio. I personally also had the opportunity to get to know him and to attend him during his parliamentary activity and I remember his commitment and dedication that you, Senator Fornaro, rightly recalled.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-747.ana.u49	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-747.ana.u50	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-747.ana.u51	D'ALI' (FI-PdL XVII). Mr President, I am speaking only to urge the Presidency to address the Government's request for intervention to report on the machine gunning of a Sicilian fishing unit in front of the Libyan coasts by vessels of the Libyan Navy (we do not know what faction, the Minister for Foreign Affairs or the Minister for the Interior or the Minister for Defence should tell us, I do not know who is currently in charge of Libya and with what effect). I believe, however, that Parliament and its citizens have the right to know how the events took place and above all why, in a stretch of sea largely guarded by the Italian Navy for operations concerning migrants, instead, assaults take place with gunshots (as well documented by photographic finds as well as by the witnesses, quite touching, of the protagonists) by the Libyan Navy, which instead does not intervene on other events on which it should intervene. I am waiting to know when the Government will give its willingness to report on these facts.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-747.ana.u52	Senator D'Alì, we will rightly urge this request.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-747.ana.u53	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-747.ana.u54	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-747.ana.u55	PADUA (PD). Mr President, our country is experiencing moments that are really difficult and pervaded by deep pain for an incredible series of events that, in their dramatic contemporary life, are putting to the test all the actors involved, to whom we thank for the incessant work they are continuing to do. In this chain of misfortunes, Sicilian events are added. In fact, Sicily and, in particular, the area of the province of Ragusana between Modica and Scicli, was invested between January 22 and 23 by alluvial episodes of exceptional scope, which have caused considerable damage to the population, to the houses and to the farms, especially in the agricultural sector. It is, as you know, a situation of absolute emergency for the entire Sicilian Region (it has also recorded the death of a man, by drowning, in Castronovo di Sicilia, in the Palermitano), hit violently by the bad weather in many of its provinces, because of which numerous and considerable damages have been recorded to the municipalities involved, the territorial companies and the local communities. We have had and still have: interruption of public lighting, closure of schools, expansion of warehouses and premises, prohibition of water use, road traffic interrupted in many areas, damage to cars. In this context, a first assessment of the damage done by the Municipality of Modica shows the figure of 10 million euros. In Scicli, also given the natural shape of the city, the storm caused devastating impacts on the territory, with an impressive mass of water falling from the hills above. For Modica, Scicli and Ispica and the other communities involved by this flood there are only damages to things, but the consequences of the floods of 1902 and 1833, when the calamitous events, besides material damage, also produced hundreds of victims (and it is from those dates that these territories were no longer affected by adverse weather events of such magnitude). Despite, therefore, the timely intervention of the local authorities directly involved in order to support the affected communities in a more appropriate way, it is necessary the intervention of the State, in agreement with the Sicilian Region, in compliance with the constitutional principle of adequacy, in order to deal more effectively with the emergencies related to the size and intensity of alluvial events. It is therefore urgent to declare the state of emergency, in compliance with the regulatory requirements laid down in Article 5 of Law No 225 of 24 February 1992, in order to count the numerous damages caused, to act immediately for the restoration of public functions interrupted and to intervene promptly in the post-emergency phase, in order to remedy the consequences brought by floods and landslides that have devastated the provincial territory, first of all in relation to road traffic and the countryside, and that risk to cause permanent damage to our precious agriculture. I will put a question on a day to see if the Government intends to declare the state of emergency for the territories affected by the calamitous events of these days in Sicily, with particular reference to the province of Ragusana, because as our Premier, President Gentiloni Silveri, mentioned Silone, after the misfortune we must avoid this turning into further injustices. [[Applause from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-747.ana.u56	The motions, questions and questions received by the Presidency will be published in Annex B to today's report. I remember that the Senate will come back to meet in public today, at 5 p.m., on the same agenda. The sitting was closed at 12.40 a.m.
