ParlaMint-IT_2017-06-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-841.ana.u1	The sitting was opened at 11.08 a.m. The Minutes shall be read. Mr Pegorer, Secretary, gave a reading of the Minutes of the sitting of 15 June. PRESIDENT. - The debate is Since there were no comments, the Minutes were approved.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-06-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-841.ana.u2	The list of senators on leave and absent on assignment received from the Senate, as well as further communications to the Assembly, will be published in Annex B to today's Minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-06-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-841.ana.u3	I would warn you that qualified votes can be taken in the course of today's sitting by electronic means. Therefore, from this moment the period of 20 minutes from the notice provided for in Article 119, paragraph 1, of the Regulation starts (11.14 hours). Colleagues, we suspend the sitting for a few minutes, waiting for President Grasso to arrive who is committed to receiving a delegation. ENDRIZZI (M5S). She's here! (The sitting was suspended at 11.14 a.m. and resumed at 11.16 a.m.)
ParlaMint-IT_2017-06-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-841.ana.u4	Colleagues, as regards the motions for resolutions on the Council summits, the Presidency declares that, pursuant to Rule 97 (1) of the Rules of Procedure, the commitment (1) of motion No 800 to Senator Gotor's first signature, out of the scope of the debate, is impossible. For the same reasons, the agenda presented this morning by Senator Martelli and other senators is unacceptable. On 19 June 2017, I received the following letter from the Minister for Economic Affairs and Finance: Dear President, reference is made to the parliamentary motions presented in recent days, with which it is requested to put in place initiatives aimed at the renewal of the Board of Directors of Consip SpA. In this regard it seems appropriate to inform the Signoria Yours that the managing director informed this Dicastery that on 17 June 2017, the resignation by two directors and that, pursuant to Article 12.4 of the social statute of the Council, the resignation of the majority of directors is intended to resign the entire board. The managing director, therefore, after hearing the board of trade unions, has expressed the intention to convene, under the same statute, the shareholders' meeting for the purpose of the reconstitution of the board of directors. The re-establishment of the new administrative body will be carried out in accordance with the applicable legal and statutory provisions. Sincerely, Pier Carlo Padoan.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-06-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-841.ana.u5	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-06-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-841.ana.u6	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-06-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-841.ana.u7	ZANDA (PD). Mr President, after listening to your communications and learning about the content of Mr Padoan's letter, I would like to say that a Parliament like ours, which is also attentive to the substance of the problems, must note that the heart of all the motions, beginning, of course, with that of Senator Augello, who was the first on the subject, has reached its effects. We were asking - the Democratic Party has also asked with its motion - for the immediate removal of the summits of society and this has happened, because today we have learned from the Minister of Economics and Finance, the sole shareholder of the Council, that the council has fallen. We have also learned - and we know this - that on the 27th of the current month, so in a week's time, the House was called for the renewal of the bodies. Now it is good to remember the facts, though very briefly. A difficult judicial investigation is under way, a long investigation, and if we all believe in justice, we must know that the investigation must take place in peace and must be followed with great respect. [[Senator Palma's comments.]] As I have already said, the motions that we have tabled had a political objective totally unrelated to the judicial inquiry, which they took note of and which they called for the renewal of the summits. This, Mr President, is not my formal request; let me say rather that I think it would be more useful for this debate of ours to take place after 27, i.e. after the renewal of the summits. This would allow us to discuss the activity of society and therefore its content. The Democratic Party has taken note of the decay of the board of directors and has therefore withdrawn its initial motion replacing it with a motion, by which it asks the government to proceed with the renewal of the board, of course according to the rules of good administration. We hope that the House will reach a very broad consensus on this motion. Let me say, quite simply, that common sense, from which Parliament should also be somewhat interested, makes me wonder about the sense of a debate on an issue that has already been resolved and instead makes me stress that the content of all the motions, beginning with that of Senator Augello (I repeat), has been satisfied and has been implemented in the decadence of the entire board of directors, as we have just heard from President Grasso, who reported the letter from Minister Padoan. [[Applause from the PD Group and the Repetti and Di Biagio Senators.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-06-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-841.ana.u8	Senator Zanda, what is your request, that is, the petitum of your speech, in relation to the discussion of the agenda?
ParlaMint-IT_2017-06-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-841.ana.u9	My petitum is explicit, Mr President. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Let the motion debate be postponed? ZANDA (PD). I think that all motion-makers should take note of the result that has been achieved. If this did not happen and if the motions were not withdrawn, I would not have an additional petitum to present.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-06-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-841.ana.u10	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-06-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-841.ana.u11	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-06-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-841.ana.u12	Mr Quagliarello (FL-Id-PL, PLI)). Mr President, Mr Padoan's letter, which you have had the courtesy to read, raises a formal problem and a political problem. I come briefly to the first aspect. First of all, it must be noted that Minister Padoan has changed his mind: this is not the first time that this has happened to him and, on the other hand, it is not even an inconvenient thing. On March 8, 2017, in fact, answering a question time said the following. I quote: With regard to the request concerning the convening of the assembly to relieve Marroni engineer from office, it is noted that the managing director is not in a condition for which the statute of the company, which has accepted the Saccomani directive, contemplates or prescribes the forfeiture of the company. We note that today the version has changed. [[Senator Naccarato's comments.]] Secondly, there is the formal problem of reading and interpreting the Statute. I applied myself to this exercise yesterday and I have to say that I have come to the conclusion that the Council summits should be thrown out at least because of the way in which the statute was written: it is a messy text and in some points even surreal. I'm just taking one example. The Statute states that the Board of Directors of the Council is composed of three members and, for the different procedures to be adopted in the event of resignation, the same statute contains three hypotheses that are presented as distinct: the one in which all three members resign; the one in which the majority of the members resign (Mr President, help me: if mathematics is not an opinion, the majority of the advisers means two, since the advisers are three); and the one in which they resign "one or more directors." It is obvious that this is nonsense. I think it will not escape anyone who, taking away the case of resignation of the whole cda, on a total of three members talking about the "majority of advisors" and "more than one administrator" means saying the same thing, because we are always talking about two advisors. However, in the event of the resignation of the "majority of the members" and in the case of the resignation of "one or more directors" the statute provides for two different procedures. It seems to me that, as a first act, the Statute of the Council should be subject to an examination of basic logic. Having said that, there is an unequivocal point in an unwritten statute, namely that Dr. Marroni is currently absolutely in office. Depending on the number of directors who have resigned, the statute assigns to different bodies the prerogative of convening the shareholders' meeting for the renewal of directors: if all three members resign, the assembly is convened by the trade union board, to which ordinary acts of administration are also entrusted in the meantime; if two directors resign, the assembly is convened by the directors who remain in office and - equally important element - no further body is entrusted the acts of ordinary administration. On the other hand, yesterday Marroni summoned the assembly for the 27th. It is therefore clear to me that from a formal point of view it is not possible to support the decadence, which will be perfected in the case after the assembly. This is the formal aspect of the matter. I believe that there is also a substantial aspect that we need to talk about with a minimum of tranquillity, and I appreciate the tones used by President Zanda in this regard. Motion No 738 was tabled a hundred days ago by my colleague Mr Augello and 72 other colleagues whom I thank. The aim of this motion was basically to clarify the various aspects that have condensed themselves around the Council affair. In fact at that time there were two aspects, but in the meantime another one has been added. On the one hand, the dark relations with business groups that somehow lapped politics, on the other hand, an investigation that was blown up for a leak. To these two aspects, during the hundred days since the motion was tabled, another story has been added, that of tampering with the transcription of intercepts to aggravate the position of one of the suspects. The purpose of the motion, Mr President, is to clarify these aspects and also to take them into account in their specific nature, without making all the grass a bundle, starting from the fact that what has been denied in this House, namely the principle of non contradiction, should be affirmed. The accused and the accuser cannot be right at the same time, as the government and the majority have long claimed to do. And this contradiction can be removed without prejudice to criminal judgment, but by detecting obvious violations of the ethical code, which are the aspect highlighted by our motion and for which we have asked for the withdrawal of the summits. In other words, Mr President, we did not take a position between Marroni and Lotti, because this is an assessment for the judiciary. If anything, we have quietly noticed that Minister Lotti has behaved differently from his predecessors, who, touched by doubts and suspicions, have put their mandate back. This, however, is a personal choice of the Minister and it is not something that we have asked for, as far as we are concerned and for our awareness of guarantees. If all this is true, Mr President, it seems to me that in these hundred days the reasons for asking for a public debate have increased and not diminished. What has also happened in this last stage would suggest to Parliament that this kind of debate should take place, partly because - if I understand correctly - you have declared in some way unacceptable the point of the motion by the Members of the Democratic and Progressive Movement which talks about the possibility of withdrawing the delegations to Mr Lotti. So, if this has been stated, and if this point is no longer there for the reasons you have set out to us, the demands made by the various motions do not differ greatly. There are different stresses and nuances and, above all, settings that deserve to be debated and deepened. Why, at this point, suggest that Parliament wants to postpone or put down a debate? I believe that this debate can be dealt with with with serenity and with due hardness, but without this obviously implying final choices. I think, frankly, that this is in the interest of all the protagonists of this affair. I do not even remotely dispute the possibility of making suggestions to the PD, but, if I understand correctly, after a hundred days of silence there was a motion calling for the Council's summits to be cancelled. Then there was a speech by Mr Marcucci, who we read in the press, who even proposed the possibility of reaching a shared text. Then there was a change of motion. Today the request for a non-place to proceed or for a postponement (which would probably be a sine die) would appear as a desire to reset a debate which, however, also thanks to the parliamentary initiative - and I believe also thanks to our initiative - has taken some steps forward. I believe that the best way to end this is to hold the debate on motions and get to vote on them, without this being an irresolvable and insurmountable problem for none of the protagonists of this affair. [[Applause from the FL Group (Id-PL, PLI).]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-06-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-841.ana.u13	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-06-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-841.ana.u14	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-06-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-841.ana.u15	ROMANI Paolo (FI-PdL XVII). Mr President, it seems to me that Senator Quagliariello has rebuilt with great detail the events that preceded the events that you mentioned today, reading the letter of Minister Padoan. It also had the time (which I did not have) to study the Statute of the Council since it listed the three cases on the basis of which the Board of Directors of the Council was to be considered to have fallen. As President Zanda said, the result has also been achieved thanks to Parliament's work, so to say that today this debate is over and that we can wait for the Council's totalitarian assembly on 27 June, because today it is premature to discuss it, it seems to me frankly a conclusion exactly contrary to the premise that Senator Zanda has indicated to us in this House. It was thanks to Parliament that Mr Padoan may have changed his mind, as Senator Quagliariello rightly recalled, and has resigned the two advisers who are directly appointing the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Finance. Mr Padoan's letter, if I understood correctly, Mr President, refers to an article in the Statute of the Council, which I imagine concerns one of the three cases, according to which an administrator who has remained in office (which I imagine is Marroni) is the same administrator who today convenes the totalitarian assembly in which the summits will probably be renewed and therefore also his own appointment. I believe that we have not finished the examination of this matter and the calm debate this morning, in my opinion, can only indicate a subsequent vote on the motions. I also hope that the motion tabled by the Group of the Party of European Socialists will not be withdrawn, because we are probably in a position to examine and vote on it this morning, and probably this approach which Parliament expresses could also be useful for the totalitarian assembly on 27 June, by updating the mechanism - as I say to Senator Quagliariello - of the first-signed motion by Senator Augello. I do not see, frankly, why we should not proceed to the vote this morning with respect to the petitum that you put forward to Senator Zanda. You rightly considered the first-signed motion by Senator Gotor, which concerned an event which has already been discussed and voted on in this House, to be inadmissible, but the motions which have been tabled here remain absolutely admissible. I would therefore say that we can safely explain the motions and I do not see what problems the next vote may entail. The only caution that we could possibly ask the extensors and the signatories of the motions is to update the device, for example the first point of the first motion by Senator Augello seems to be overcome by the events that you yourself, Mr President, described here. Beyond that, it seems to me that everything falls within the normality, the capacity and the will of this House to be, in any case, a stimulus and direction for the decisions that are likely to be taken at the next Council meeting. [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII and Senator Quagliariello.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-06-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-841.ana.u16	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-06-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-841.ana.u17	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-06-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-841.ana.u18	DE PETRIS (Misto-SI-SEL). Mr President, in hearing this very colloquial and calm tone, I would like to ask modestly what we are afraid of. I should also like to ask President Zanda if he is afraid of a serious debate on this matter and - if I may say so, since the Assembly has been convened - on the future of the Council and the appointments. Frankly, Mr President, I do not think that the motions have been overcome, first of all because the CEO is still in office (the President Ferrara has resigned, also investigated during a deposition as a person informed of the facts, and another councilwoman) so much so that he has called the assembly of members, on whose outcome we allow ourselves, in some way, with the motions, to ask Parliament to express its opinion. The fact is therefore certainly not over, and therefore the letter from Minister Padoan is not sufficient to state President Zanda's request not to proceed with the discussion. Secondly, someone will have to explain. As Senator Quagliariello has already said, in the question time held in the Chamber - among other things, at the request of the Italian Left - Minister Padoan - and not only on that occasion - has repeatedly produced himself in the defense of the managing director, creating, in these long weeks, since the beginning of the whole, a paradoxical situation: a CEO, defended by Minister Padoan, who affirms that he must remain in his place, accuses the Minister of the sport in charge of having revealed to him that an investigation was in progress and that they were being intercepted. The Minister of Sport, of course, says that this is not true. And the Minister of Economy continues to defend Marroni, who remains in some way still in his place, as well as the Minister of Sport is in his place. So, Mr President, the total contradiction and incongruity of the matter is clear to everyone. Can Parliament continue not only to discuss these facts, but also not to try, in any way, to make its contribution and to have answers from the Government to try to clarify them? Furthermore, Mr President, the motions remain in place because, with the arrangements - at least in the case of the motion before us - it is necessary not only to cancel all the appointments of the Council's summits, but also to proceed to new appointments, giving, among other things, a precise indication of how they should be taken into account by Parliament, i.e. according to the criteria and guidelines of the aforementioned Directive of 24 June 2013. Again, we remind everyone how the Council is born and what its mission is: to have control of procurement, to save public administration and to be, in some way, an embankment, with a single central, to corruption. On the contrary, we are in a very different situation in the light of everything that has emerged. Beyond what will be ascertained by the judiciary, it certainly does not seem to me that a clear picture emerges from this situation. On the contrary, there is a framework of interweaving between business, politics and bad management on which Parliament must have the opportunity to debate. The motions also indicate the initiation of an investigation and administrative inquiry within the Council, in order to verify all procurement procedures. Another issue concerns the Council's very mission and, therefore, the manner and criteria in which tenders are conducted. I say this, Mr President, because - in our view - the motions cannot be overcome, and they absolutely are not. Recapitulating, meanwhile the managing director is still in office, because he has convened the assembly of the members, of which we will see the outcome (they have resigned two, but the other is still in office). And in this piradellian affair we keep both the actors defended by the Government - one defended by the President of the Council and the other by the Minister of Economy - who contradict and accuse each other. Secondly, Parliament cannot be kept out of the discussion and indication of how new appointments should be made. And I am not referring to names, Mr President, but to procedures. Even in the famous question time with Minister Padoan we asked for an account of the way in which the Council Summits and the CEO had chosen to be held. It must not escape anyone that this affair is the result of a mixture between provincial politics, indications, relationships and against relations. It is the combination of business, politics and an environment that has produced that kind of result and also that type of appointment. Mr President, I therefore believe that we must proceed out of respect for Parliament. In conclusion, I would like to point out that the motions before us were to be put automatically, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, on the agenda and, on the other hand, we have waited a long time waiting for something that is only now understood. Having said that, we believe it is necessary to have at least one debate that can help everyone and perhaps re-attribute a serious mission to the Council itself. [[Applause from the Misso-SI-SEL Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-06-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-841.ana.u19	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-06-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-841.ana.u20	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-06-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-841.ana.u21	MARTELLI (M5S). Mr President, it is because the motions are debated and therefore remain on the agenda for today's sitting. And we would like to motivate this position by asking questions to the party on my right. What do you think Parliament is doing to us? You say you have only learned today that there is a letter from Minister Padoan, never last night even the sampieterini of Rome knew it. Evidently you haven't learned anything at all now. I understand that these are phrases to be said, but maybe you could say something more impregnated, instead of such a fuss. But let's move on. Minister Padoan writes a letter and you, President, come to the Chamber and tell us that the Minister has communicated that everything is okay, that two out of three summits have resigned and that the managing director - which according to you would be reset - has however asked the convocation of the board of directors. If one is reset and is no longer there, he does not ask for the convocation of anything: at most it is the majority shareholder who asks for it, i.e. the MEF. So, even at the level of corporate movements, we've detected something else that doesn't work. In any case, there is the letter and you, Mr President, say you do not proceed with the debate, and what does Parliament do? Do you take note of a letter from the Minister and say it's okay? Perhaps this is the Parliament of the 1930s or that of Argentina in the 1970s in which, by pressing the button, it took note and said: Yes, sir? No, we are not in Parliament in the twenty years and, therefore, it is right that Parliament should debate. If the Government has something to say about it, when it is time it expresses a negative opinion. But there is a resolution and, above all, a debate. I would like to add another point by referring to the Presidency's declaration of inproposity. You have now decided that the issue of the withdrawal of delegations to Mr Lotti has nothing to do with it. I ask myself, however, a question and I ask it: how can it have nothing to do with it? To sum up, I would point out that we have a 2.5 billion contract, the largest contract in Europe; an entrepreneur named Romeo gives 100,000 euros to a Council official because he is interested in part of those 18 lots - mark the word "Lotti" - and then he promises money to another entrepreneur, who is called Russo, because he wants to meet the father of the former President of the Council, as well as secretary of your party. Not happy, he promises something to the same father. It's probably best to follow two channels. In addition, Minister Lotti is investigated for communicating the existence of an investigation carried out by the Council. And - by chance - President Ferrara even brings up the Commander General of the Carabinieri's weapon. Minister Lotti, therefore, does not have a hand in this affair in jam: it is directly in the large vat where they are preparing it, it is inside it up to the neck. However, according to President Zanda, everything is fine: it is enough that we make a summons... PRESIDENT. Excuse me, Senator Martelli, if I interrupt you, but are you realizing that you are presenting a motion that has not been tabled? MARTELLI (M5S). President. - I cannot explain why I have not tabled any motion. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Then, confine yourself to the subject under discussion. MARTELLI (M5S). The subject is this, Mr President: it is a political, not a technical one. I have no motions to explain and, therefore, by definition, I cannot explain anything. That's clear. That's the theme. I cannot hear President Zanda tell us that everything is fine: the Council is perfect, beautiful; two advisers have resigned and now we delete the third. He's holding the board of directors, and that's okay. The fact, then, that there's an investigation and that everyone's gone into it, we totally forget it. No, take responsibility for discussing, rejecting the requests contained in the motions of oppositions and possibly approving only yours. Ask others for loyal cooperation to withdraw motions. But since when have you been loyal? Never. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] Retreat what? Please! At most, the only thing you can withdraw is the token from the supermarket cart once it is returned, but certainly not a motion, which is not the 500 lire of the cart of good memory. Watch this, then. Motions must stand for us. If you have difficulties and want it not to be discussed, there are regulatory instruments that will allow you to do so: pick up two thirds of the House and try to put another topic on the agenda. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] Maybe you'll dislodge it in the morning. Or ask you to convene a fine conference of the Leaders, President Zanda, and make your appearance in front of the Italians by asking them to remove this issue from the agenda of today's sitting. In any case, you wake up today, but the motions are here since March and not even from the end but from the beginning of the month: from then to today we cancel the summits of the Council? Didn't you know right away that if you're a CEO of a company, you can't not know what they're doing under him? Couldn't you have known? You have a company in the house, so you could do it. For all these reasons, and for others for which I could go on for a week, I tell you that the motions remain standing, they argue and then go around telling the Italians. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-06-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-841.ana.u22	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-06-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-841.ana.u23	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-06-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-841.ana.u24	CANDIANI (LN-Aut). Mr President, I would like to announce to you that the Lega Nord Group has tabled a motion which not only does not intend to withdraw, but which it wants to be debated in this same sitting. Let me add that President Zanda has certainly given two demonstrations of how much time is a great actor and always finds the perfect ending: first of all he did not ask not to discuss the motions, but to postpone the debate. Well, asking for them to be discussed later in time, when they have already been deposited for three months, frankly indicates that everything is wanted except to discuss the matter; you simply want to let the arguments melt like snow in the sun. Secondly, it has thrown out a bait to which many, too many, have taken the bait since it is already 12 o'clock, the sitting closes at 1 p.m. and we have not yet started the debate. Therefore, Mr President, I renew your request to discuss the motions and I would also add that I believe that it must necessarily be envisaged, in the event that the debate on them does not end this morning, to proceed with the opening of the afternoon sitting.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-06-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-841.ana.u25	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-06-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-841.ana.u26	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-06-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-841.ana.u27	WAR (Art. 1-MDP). Mr President, the issues raised by the motions before us today go beyond the issues specifically related to the summits of the Council, which is why, although it is necessary and useful in the debate to take into account what has happened in recent days, the communications sent to us by Minister Padoan do not appear to be right to lead to the decadence or withdrawal of motions. While it is true that the devices of the various motions - in the light of the President's decision to make one of the points of our motion impossible - in part converge, the reasons for these devices, including the improbable one, remain standing. They are also significantly different motivations between motion and motion: they touch a plurality of problems - including the close interweaving of business, politics and institutions - that go beyond the figure of the managing director Marroni and therefore deserve - in our opinion - a discussion in this Assembly. In this regard, I also announce that we are presenting a reworded text of the first-signed motion by Senator Gotor, who takes note of the impproponibility of the first commitment of the device, but at the same time recalls in the reasons the request repeatedly made for the President of the Council to assess the suspension of the delegations of the Minister for Sport Luca Lotti, until the clarification of the event that sees him involved, so that the Government can operate away from shadows on behaviors that are not irreproachable of its members in order to carry out its demanding objectives. [[Applause from the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and ……]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-06-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-841.ana.u28	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-06-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-841.ana.u29	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-06-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-841.ana.u30	DI MAY (GAL (DI, GS, MPL, RI)). Mr President, thank you most of all for giving us this morning the opportunity to discuss these issues. I do not miss the candor with which Senator Zanda told us a liturgy in order to know that there was no need to come to the Chamber: it was enough to read the newspapers to understand that the parliamentary work would take place in this way. And I do not want to go into the substance of the debate, which I hope we will be able to deal with later when the motions are discussed. At this preliminary stage, however, I believe that a few words must also be spent on the rituality of the debate that we are facing. We have lived through a legislature in which I believe it has been in the eyes of all that Parliament, and especially the Senate, has been commissary by an omnipresent government. The irritality of today's letter from Minister Padoan, which once again attempts to take the debate away from a parliamentary Chamber, I believe is an issue to be highlighted. And I would like to stress this for a very simple reason: I do not know whether all the solos of our own policy have any idea what we are discussing, namely the credibility of the institutions, and I believe that a branch of Parliament such as ours is empowered to discuss these issues. I would not like the debate to be taken away from us once again because of undue interference. I would ask you, therefore, to allow the debate on motions, which have been tabled some time ago, to be held, also because, as usual, the patch that tried to put, once again, Senator Zanda risks being worse than the hole previously created. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-06-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-841.ana.u31	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-06-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-841.ana.u32	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-06-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-841.ana.u33	MANCUSO (AP-CpE-NCD). Mr President, I would like to point out that the reasons contained in our motions - and also in the one we have presented and then withdrawn because they are unified with today's initial signature of Zanda - concern not only the zeroing of the Council summits but also other more general issues relating to the relaunching of the Council's action in terms of better structuring, transparency and therefore the finalisation of the objectives that society has set itself and that - I must say - in 2016 it also achieved, having produced as much as 3 and a half billion savings. We must therefore continue the Council's action, but - as we can see from the first speeches in this House - it is probably not so much the need to comply with the first point. Beyond the considerations of Senator Quagliariello, one cannot fail to take into account the circumstance that the very convocation of the managing director Marroni on 27 is a technical event consequent to the decadence of the board of directors. And so, on this, I think there can be absolutely no misunderstanding. This does not alter the need to discuss the Council, with suggestions and ideas, through a dialogue which in this House can be conducted - I hope - in a constructive spirit, in order to give precise indications to the assembly of members, to be held on 27 June, and also subsequently to relaunch the work of the Council, aimed at achieving its objectives. [[Applause from the AP-CpE-NCD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-06-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-841.ana.u34	Having taken note of the debate that took place on this subject, let us turn to the debate on the motions on the agenda.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-06-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-841.ana.u35	The next item is the debate on motions 1-00738 tabled by Senator Augello and other senators, 1-00743, tabled by Senator De Petris and other senators, by abbreviated procedure pursuant to Rule 157 (3) of the Rules of Procedure, 1-00798, tabled by Senator Zanda and other senators, 1-00800, presented by Senator Gotor and other senators, and 1-00802, presented by Senator Centinario and other senators, on the Council summits. I call Senator Augello to explain motion No 738.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-06-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-841.ana.u36	Mr President, allow me to begin by explaining the motion at my first signature by expressing my satisfaction at the fact that the debate has finally begun, a hundred days after the motion has been tabled. I have no difficulty in recognizing that, in Senator Zanda's speech, there was an objective ability to recognise that this motion, a hundred days ago, opened a phase of reflection that today essentially leads us to have aligned documents on the table that suggest the possibility of arriving at a unique indication of Parliament. So what are the reasons for discussing it anyway and carrying out some necessary insights through comparison? I begin to list them: the first question, Mr President, which I find formidable, cannot be clarified by the Democratic Party, but the Government must clarify it to us. Today we are doing our job and we must be proud of it: the Senate of the Republic is carrying out its important activity of direction and control with respect to a situation, clearly escaped from the control of the Government, which has been echoing in the press for months for reasons of a judicial nature, and for which we must wait for the end of the investigation and, if any, the end of the trials. But I must say that, above all, it turns out that talks, conferences and credit openings were held with a certain frequency around the Council as compared to those interested in the races that were to be held. And we know it not because a bird has told us, but because such habit - moreover explicitly excluded, as well as common sense, also from the code of ethics of the Council - is certified by the managing director, still in office today, who explains, even in some interviews, that not only these talks have actually taken place, but that "so fans everyone" and that it is à la page managing said role listening to everyone, without then rigging the races. This is an excellent reason for opening a debate and deepening. How was it possible for a hundred days not to take any action in relation to a situation that presented itself in this way? And above all, colleagues of the Democratic Party, how was it possible to read on the most authoritative national newspapers - on the best-selling, perhaps not the most authoritative - that, precisely because of the debate, had developed around certain declarations and circumstances - in addition to the presentation of our motion - the CEO of the Council would have presented twice the resignation and twice the government would reject them? This is a first point that we need to clarify. We found ourselves in a situation of addition to the Government: with the motions under consideration we did what the Government should have done. I don't care that someone did it a hundred days ago and someone else ten hours ago: the Senate of the Republic did it. In this debate, however, it must be explained why the addition was necessary; because - if it is true, because no one has denied it - twice the resignation submitted by the managing director was rejected and for what obscure reason only in the last hours there has been a change of address. I repeat that the Senate of the Republic and Italian citizens must not know this from the Leader of the Democratic Party, who could safely answer us that the Democratic Party submitted its motion on the eve of the debate. That, then, is the position of the Democratic Party. Among other things, the first motion presented by the Democratic Party is, in the petitum, essentially identical to ours. The question is to be asked to the Government and it is the Government that owes us an answer. This kind of rethinking then leaves another formidable issue in the field. Is it possible to fail to comply with these attitudes to the ethical code and - I would add - to the contractual obligations of the summits of the Council, which certainly had a duty to inform the shareholder whether they knew that an investigation was underway, whether they decided to remove the bugs, or to have received pressure from members more or less connected to majority forces or, in any case, from persons carrying interest in the races? At present, those summits had an obligation to report to the shareholder. Why didn't they? But most of all, they didn't? These are the answers that the Government owes and not to us, that we are little thing, just parliamentarians, but to the Italian citizens whom we represent and who today are waiting for such answers from the debate. There are also other important elements in our motion which do not simply concern the zeroing of the Council's summits, which I now list. In addition to asking for answers, we ask for a deepening - as my colleague Mrs De Petris mentioned earlier - against statements of this kind, reported in the newspapers and never denied. Is it possible that Parliament will not raise the problem of a thorough administrative investigation not only on the part of the judiciary, but on the whole of the work carried out by this management through the competitions? That's even trivial to ask! Parliament has a duty today to get answers in a reasonable time. Still on the sidelines of the motion, why is it important that we go to the end today and take decisions, giving these acts of direction? Meanwhile, allow me to say that the opposition's confidence in the words of the Zanda leader may be absolute, but by definition, it cannot be absolute towards the Government, especially if today he writes us not to worry because the board of directors is still decaying, when that same Government had rejected the resignation of the managing director. There is a more delicate problem in the last few hours. I don't believe the indiscretions of the press, not even when he quotes, but I wonder what would happen if it was remotely true what we have all read in the newspapers, namely that in these hours the CEO of Consip SpA, while with a hand signed - it is in office, and therefore, it is he who must sign it - the letter of convocation of the shareholders' meeting, with the other raises a phone and lets leak some jokes, such as those of having pebbles in the shoe that now finally will speak and do so with the summits of the anticorruption. Senator Zanda, you understand that the pebbles in the shoe are not a podiatrist problem in this case, but that they leave something behind. In all of this, a Parliament that would escape its responsibilities and not discuss the motions would even be suspicious of some shyness, Mr President. Frankly, I don't know what's going on in the CEO's shoes. All I know is that we've had a very clear line for 100 days... [[The microphone is automatically switched off.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-06-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-841.ana.u37	Senator Augello, the ten minutes at your disposal are over.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-06-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-841.ana.u38	I invite you to conclude. AUGELLO (FL (Id-PL, PLI)). I'm almost done, Mr. President. It is a line that does not anticipate problems of a judicial nature, but is firmly embodied in the code of ethics, contractual obligations, administrative problems, which do not allow this misunderstanding to be further maintained. Therefore, we feel the duty to carry out the illustration of the motions and to arrive at a decision - as already stated to the press - from the point of view of the speaker and of the over 60 senators who signed the motion and who must all be thanked. This is not the motion of Andrea Augello or Idea, but it is the motion of almost a quarter of the Senate. We are all absolutely anxious to know if it is true that the administrator has said certain things and what are the truths that he must reveal to us. We are certainly not afraid and afraid of it, and therefore we want to vote on the motions, we want to give this act of direction and we want to make sure that the Government understands that Parliament wants exactly what we wrote in the motions. Mr President, the people who think about it are often unpredictable and perhaps even better for all of us, for the House and for the future of the Council, that the motion should be presented and discussed together with the others, that a mechanism should be approved and that the shareholder should go to the assembly with a clear act of Parliament's direction. It seems to me to be a good reason, Mr President, for us to move forward in this debate and to adopt the motions and let me say that this seems to me to be a qualifying moment. In a Parliament often accused of hiding or covering up everything that can embarrass the political class, the Senate of the Republic, which managed - albeit in more than three months - to change the government's mind about such a delicate issue, has done its duty and exactly what the citizens expect: it has performed a function of control and has said how to get out of an unsustainable situation. For this I thank above all the more than 60 senators who, together with me, signed the motion in question and among them, in particular, those who belong to the majority: it was an act of courage and should be given credit for it. [[Applause from the FL Group (Id-PL, PLI) and the Senators Airola and Giovanardi.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-06-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-841.ana.u39	I call Senator De Petris to explain motion No 743.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-06-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-841.ana.u40	Mr President, what I am about to say is a re-explanation, because in my previous speech, in motivating the need to arrive at a debate on the texts under discussion, I have somehow set out the underlying reasons for the motion itself and also referred to the general sense that, in addition to the request to cancel it, it concerns some other very clear and precise issues contained in the commitments of the motion itself. Mr President, on the motion we start by reminding Parliament what the Council is and why it was born. It is born as a national purchasing power station, to carry out a control over public expenditure and, therefore, to rationalise purchases, even with the ambition to put a brake, thanks to a single power station, on a system too permeated by pushes and counter-pushes, if not all corrupt, certainly, or at least in part, of waste. The investigation that runs into the Consip affair, comes from something else. I would like to remind you that the investigation stems from the anti-Mafia prosecutor of Naples on alleged links with the camorra of some employees of the Neapolitan entrepreneur Romeo and stumbles into such an affair. This tells us, however, that certainly the first question cannot but concern Parliament, it cannot fail to see its full involvement in the debate and in the formulation of the guidelines in relation to the fact that within the Council there has certainly been a climate which, if it is corrupt to the end, will ensure it by the magistrates. However, this is clearly a situation of clear and clear mix, of strange relations between business and politics. I would like to remind you that from the interceptions - and not only from those but also from the statements of various protagonists - emerges among other things an established point: one of the officials (Gasparri) is in prison from the first March for having admitted to having received 100,000 euros from the entrepreneur Romeo - therefore one element is certainly from the corrupt point of view - which is known, as well as for its various entrepreneurial activities always very connected to the public authorities, for having financed 65 political foundations, including - I would like here to remind incidentally - also the Open Foundation. Moving on as a whole, we are faced with a situation in which a fully public society (the Council) is managed by a CEO who finds nothing strange and, therefore, does not even feel obliged to report to the Minister or at least certainly to denounce - he may have reported to the Minister, but we do not know - a situation in which he himself says he felt he had been blackmailed by the clerk Carlo Russo in order to favor the entrepreneur Carlo Romeo. The CEO also reports that he has been warned by a person, who is today a Minister of the Republic, of an ongoing investigation carried out by the Council and who, following the disclosure, has his offices reclaimed by intercepting devices. How can we not consider all these circumstances to be serious, or indeed very serious, and on which I am not long ago, as I have already mentioned them? How can we fail to think (and this is just as serious) after we have had to wait weeks before we can hold today's debate, that Parliament, apart from the criminal aspects, has nothing to say, to discuss and formulate guidelines on these matters? It is serious because a minister would have been responsible for a misguided investigation and is currently being investigated precisely for detection of secrecy, for aiding. On the other hand, the CEO reports that he has been warned of the investigation itself by the aforementioned Minister and he too, not currently investigated, instead of immediately going to the judiciary to cooperate, makes himself available to hinder its action. (at 12.20 a.m.) (De PETRIS). If we are not interested from a criminal point of view, how can this House and Parliament not be of political interest? Both remain in office and we come to the point, which I quote again: to the question posed by our Group during the conduct of a question time in the Chamber of Deputies - and not only in that circumstance, because it will restore trust even after, rejecting, as it seems, the resignation - Minister Padoan continued to defend the managing director, believing that he was not in any of the conditions provided for by the statute of the society for the decadence. Therefore, there is a CEO who accuses a Minister and a Minister who rejects the accusation, but both remain in office, and not only because the motion of distrust against Minister Lotti has been rejected, but also because the Government and the President of the Council have decided to continue to hold him in office. We are therefore in a Kafkian situation, which could have further consequences. In fact, now, the CEO, who is still in office despite the letter of Minister Padoan, threatens to speak and make revelations, evidently too late, because it would have been his duty to go immediately to the judiciary. What does this whole thing tell us? He who is the head of a public society and who, therefore, should first have protected and guaranteed public interests and the proper management of resources, is approached and permeated in various ways by relationships and pressures and does not feel the duty to go to the judiciary or in any case to reject the accusations clearly. At the same time, on the other hand, there is a rather murky set of relationships, knowledge and familyism that are lurking around the large plate of public procurement managed by the Council. Can we believe that both for the Minister and for the CEO the requirements of good repute laid down in the so-called Saccomeni Directive have been respected? Certainly not. This is how we return to the central element of this whole affair, which we propose to everyone's attention. How were those choices made? By what criteria were those people chosen? With what criteria was the CEO chosen? Has the specific directives been adhered to from this point of view? What were the other competitors? How was the short list written? All these elements, which have not been observed, tell us exactly that the appointment took place on very precise indications, perhaps even at the head of the Presidency of the Council, and that all these relations between business and politics are really sick. Mr President, we are not just asking for the zeroing of the summits that are said to have been passed (and in part it is, but not completely), but we want to make it clear that this House must give a clear direction in relation to the further criteria for the appointment of successors to the Council. Then there is a question that we ask the government. Despite the very serious events that have emerged in recent weeks, how can we fail to start an internal administrative investigation in order to understand and verify all the procedures for awarding Council contracts? In fact, beyond these events, the contracts present anomalies, which perhaps should not be referred to Canton, but which the Government should first report here. First of all, the government should report in this House on anomalies in the way in which lots are allocated and on a situation that is not born today, but that clearly has existed for a long time, before the elements made known to everyone by the investigations emerged. Precisely because these anomalies have occurred, because this possibility of being permeated has emerged, it is absolutely necessary - this is the other point absolutely crucial for us - to redefine the criteria of the races, in order to allow not only transparency, but also the effective participation of all the enterprises, because it is evident that a block of power had been created that went on through knowledge, relationships and permeability of the politics, that they are the real brick on all this affair Consip. [[Applause from the Misso-SI-SEL Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-06-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-841.ana.u41	I call Senator Russo to explain motion No 798.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-06-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-841.ana.u42	Madam President, the position of the Democratic Group, which also stems from the first-signed motion by Senator Zanda, was well expressed by President Zanda himself in the speech that opened this session. I would really like us to try - which is often repeated by my colleagues in the 5 Star Movement - to explain outside this House, to the citizens who were following this parliamentary session by venture, the real sense of a debate that I believe is likely to escape: even in the combination between reading the newspapers and what President Grasso has read in relation to the communications of Master Padoan, this debate seems surreal. I would like us to tell the citizens - someone has reminded us - what Consip is. Consip is the central purchasing authority of public administration that has often been referred to as one of the places where to solve one of the main problems of this country, that is an excess of expenditure, sometimes even poorly efficient. I think we can say that it represents a heritage, in the light of the results of recent years, with billions of expenses saved and with the possibility of starting a virtuous path in one of the most delicate sectors, such as the spending review. Unfortunately, Council is at the centre of a judicial inquiry today, as has been well mentioned (and I will return to this) and I believe that Parliament should be given the utmost respect for the autonomy and work of the judiciary. This investigation has led - and I say this to those who did not follow the whole story - several groups of the Senate of the Republic, at different times, to present motions that basically asked for the replacement of the summits that, in one way or another (the way still has to be explained by the judiciary itself) are involved in the investigation. The novelty that has emerged in recent hours and days and that President Grasso has clearly shown us, is the letter from Minister Padoan, who has explained in this House what we have already read in the press these days, namely the fact that the summits of the Council are in fact reset, thanks to the resignation of two of the three members of the Board of Directors and this has objectively created a condition very different from that which existed at the time when the motions were presented. This is the political fact and this is the meaning of this morning's debate, and that is why it is advisable not to continue it in the tones with which it had been anticipated in the previous days and to conclude it in a different, proactive and all in all more unitary way than was thought. Rightly, Senator Quagliariello has remembered that, except for that point that President Grasso has considered inadmissible in the light of previous decisions already taken by this Assembly, basically all the motions have a similar petitum, in the end they ask the same thing, that is, as I recalled, the resignation of the managing director of Consip and the renewal of the summits of the company. So the issue at this point is to ask ourselves what we are talking about, what is the point of voting in this House today, which is left to us in relation to the debate which, objectively, has also divided us over the past few weeks. Someone has tried to claim that the administrator Marroni is still in office today: I believe that basic notions of company law are enough to prove that the managing director today is simply in charge for the ordinary administration. The convening by Marroni of the shareholders' meeting for June 27, next week, prompted us to note that this discussion would perhaps have made more sense when the new summits had been established but to try to support, as some colleagues have done, that such convocation of the assembly proves its permanence in full powers is absolutely undisputable, since this convocation is simply part of the due acts that compete to him by virtue of survival as the only undisputed administrator. I believe that this can close the issue, compared to what we are in a realistic position today to ask and decide and to tell the government. I am also saying this in relation to Parliament's evocative role, a role which we certainly do not want to belittle; on the contrary, it seems to us that certain tones of this debate run the risk of undermining this role, at a time when we are transforming a subject which is certainly important and which we want the judiciary to be able to go to the end, in a debate which - I am sorry to say to some colleagues - has gone from being a substantive debate (which still survived when the Council summits were in office) to a merely formal debate, with hints of low political controversy that are not good for Parliament and its external credibility. I conclude by saying that we have two points at our heart. The first is that we do not really want to build an instrumental political polemic on this issue before the judiciary pronounces itself. This is not the task of Parliament, which is certainly a task of vigilance and attention that we have carried out towards the Government and the Government has intervened. The second point is that no pressure can ever arise from the parliamentary debate on an ongoing judicial procedure. Needless to say, but sometimes it is good to do so, that the distinction between the plans of powers is the primary good of our institutions. We do not want this debate to be used again for a controversy which could poison or pollute the judges' decision. To this end, I would like to call on the motion to first sign Zanda, but also signed by Presidents Zeller and Bianconi: we really ask that the Government, in the light of what the Minister has told us, proceed in the fastest possible times to replace the summits and to appoint the new summits, that this take place in the most transparent and qualitative possible way, that the identified personalities be of the highest profile and that (and this is the only good that is dear to the Italians) Consip be enabled, in the shortest possible time, to work back to the best in the field so strategic that we have remembered and that must be considered, compared to the results obtained in recent years, really as a public heritage not to be wasted. [[Applause from the PD Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-06-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-841.ana.u43	I call Senator Gotor to explain motion No 800 in the reworded text.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-06-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-841.ana.u44	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, it will have been understood that by Article 1, Democratic and Progressive Movement, the story of the Minister of Sport, Luigi Lotti, and that of the CEO of the Council, Dr Luigi Marroni, is indissolubly intertwined. It is quite clear that one of them has lied before the judicial authority and continues to do so before public opinion and that their simultaneous standing in office, in their respective roles, is an unacceptable sign of political arrogance which contributes to increasing the discredit of public institutions which we have a constitutional obligation to serve with discipline and honor. On several occasions we have emphasized the opportunity, if not the need, to proceed to the suspension of the delegations to the Minister of Sport Lotti, until the clarification of the story that sees him involved and continue to believe that the Government must be able to operate sheltered from the shadows on behaviors not blameless in its components in order to carry out its objectives. We have made this decision reluctantly, being a force of the majority of this Government, but we have been forced by an excess of reluctance in the text presented by the other forces of the majority, which concentrate only and exclusively on Dr. Marroni in a Maramaldesco way, isolating his story from a context of power and a field of relations in which, according to our conviction, Dr. Marroni has prudently preferred to accept to play the part, all Manzoni, of the terracotta vase, forced to travel in the company of many iron vessels. As is known, in recent months, in the main Italian newspapers have been published large excerpts of statements made as a witness to the judicial authority by Dr. Marroni, who reiterated serious statements against the Minister of Sports Lotti, President Luigi Ferrara, Dr. Filippo Vannoni and some officers of the Carabinieri, who would have informed him of the investigative activities carried out by the investigative authorities, also through environmental interceptions in the offices of the summits of the Council so that the bugs were removed, as - this is the point - punctually happened. In addition, Dr. Luigi Marroni stated that he had been pressured to orientate a tender launched by the Council by Mr. Tiziano Renzi (father of the former President of the Council), who was also investigated in the same procedure on the charge of competition in traffic of influence. On June 9, 2017, as a witness and, therefore, bound to the obligation of truth, Dr Luigi Marroni confirmed his version of the facts to the judicial authority and on June 17 they resigned from the board of directors of the Council the president Luigi Ferrara and the councilwoman Maria Laura Ferrigno. Today we are also asking for the resignation of Dr. Marroni, because it seems clear to us that the leak of news related to the activity of interception has objectively hindered and put at risk the continuation of a judicial investigation on the mix between politics and business since the intercepted have had the confidence to be and have been able to settle accordingly. In recent months we have tabled a specific motion of censure, dedicated to Minister Lotti, which waits to be discussed, with the request to suspend the delegations to the Minister of Sport and, in particular, the delegation of CIPE, because we take a clear conflict of interest between the competences of the Council and the object of the delegation of CIPE since, as we know, Minister Lotti, as an investigated person, is nevertheless within the judicial process of the Consip affair. It should be noted that when Dr. Marroni was informed of the investigation, he did not think it was his duty to go to the judiciary immediately to inform her of what happened, but he has rushed to re-bonify the offices in order to hinder the prosecution. Such behavior seems completely inappropriate by the managing director of a company with total public participation, which should respond, according to the statute of the Council itself, to requirements based on the utmost professionalism, good repute and correctness. Among other things, the judicial investigations of these months concerning contracts managed by the Council are affecting the leaders and managers of the company controlled by the Ministry of Economy and Finance, such as Marco Gasparri, accused of having favored the entrepreneur Alfredo Romeo in exchange for a fair amount of money, starting from the announcements of 2012. These facts, unfortunately, suggest that the Council, created to centralise the control of public spending and mitigate the burden of so many small local corruptions, has in fact also centralized corruption, strengthening the bond between politics and business, between bureaucrats who turn into chores and the administration that becomes an appendage of the powerful politician in turn, neglecting any principle of third-party, efficiency and transparency. Without prejudice to the sacred principle of presumption of innocence, the point is that it is not necessary to wait for justice to take its course in order to realize how, in the Consip affair, the mix between business and politics has given rise to a link detrimental to the authority and respectability of the institutions. It would be necessary for politics, in full autonomy, to regulate itself, elevating the bar of rigour and probity of behaviour in the management of public affairs and to equip itself with uniform standards of conduct, without waiting for the intervention of the judiciary, so as also to avoid the seemingly inevitable, as stale, debate on the politicization of justice, which for too many years divides the field of public opinion between judicialists on the one hand and guaranteed à la carte on the other. If politics were to act first and seriously, it would not raise the suspicion of a double morale and of an intermittent guarantee, which transform that principle of civilization into a mere opportunistic conduct, to be claimed only when their friends or party comrades are involved. Let it be clear: the Consip affair, regardless of its possible criminal importance, which will be for the judges to assess, is like an oil spy, which lights up and reveals some basic features of the Renzian power system of these years, as already the story of the Etruria Bank. First of all, the Council case tells us about the role of familyism, because when you are Presidents of the Council or Ministers pro tempore, it would be preferable for your parents to take care of their grandchildren and not say they would suspend, but at least slow down their professional activities, in order to avoid influencing, by their own name and role, the field in which they intervene. Secondly, it also tells us of the putting into practice of a sort of zero kilometer of power, where everything takes place in a handkerchief of land where you have the impression that the perimeter has been too often traced with the team and with the Tuscan compass. I say compass to remind the forgetful that the center left Italian, born from the experience of the Olive tree of Romano Prodi and raised in the PD of Walter Veltroni and Pier Luigi Bersani, had at its ethical-civil foundation the battle of Nino Andreatta against Banco Ambrosiano, against Sindona, against P2. Today that experience is forced to put new roots elsewhere also because it seemed normal, quiet, to meet - I know - the choremaker Flavio Carboni for banking advice. Moreover, the Consip case tells us of the methods of financing politics, of the new ways after, with a great mistake, the public financing of the parties has been cancelled, with a difficult separable link between professional services rendered by very efficient managers and lawyers, also in the public administration, and the collection of resources for the foundations of the leader, who covers together the office of President of the council and secretary of the party, therefore, exercising an evident pressure that already Enrico Berlinguer had condemned, considering that the moral question to be affirmed was precisely that of an undue and excessive overlap between party roles and public functions. And then he also tells us about the financial and economic relations with the magical world of the "Denis Verdini" constituent father, of which politics - and let me tell you the balance of this Parliament, during the decisive passages in the current legislature - were only a binding as masked harp. It also tells us how a series of relationships of personal, private and friendly origin, based on bonds of solidarity, have been predominant on the interests of the community and on the principles of free competition and meritocracy. Finally, the Consip affair, taken as a whole, tells us of the intermittent guarantee, inflexible with friends and denied in the name of political sensitivity and following pressing public interventions, in the cases of ministers Nunzia Di Girolamo, Josefa Idem, Maurizio Lupi and Federica Guidi who were forced to resign. The point, all political, is the following: but what idea of modernization is claimed and has been proposed in recent years to our country? What kind of business model, with what space for free competition and meritocracy do we indicate to Italy and our young people? What is the relationship between the world of politics and the world of the economy? But how was it possible, I wonder, to betray in such a manifest way a series of expectations and hopes that even there were, only in a handful of years and within a single ride in the wheel of power? For these reasons, Article 1 - Democratic and Progressive Movement asks to evaluate the revocation of the office of CEO of the Council to Dr. Marroni by the Ministry of Economy, in order to ensure the protection of public interests and the correct management of resources, also safeguarding the image of the public partner. For this reason, Article 1 asks the President of the Council to proceed to new appointments of the Council's summits, following on time and in a transparent way, and giving consideration to Parliament, the criteria and guidelines of the directive signed by Minister Fabrizio Saccomanni of 24 June 2013, which strengthened the requirements of good repute and professionalism required of directors. It is necessary to do so, in our opinion, because the Consip case is perhaps the least suitable to claim the continuity of this Executive with that of Renzi, as Prime Minister Gentiloni did only a few days ago in Bologna, to whom we recommend that we close as soon as possible this embarrassing event in the interest of his Government, which we continue to support, and especially of the country. [[Applause from the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and ……]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-06-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-841.ana.u45	I would like to propose to the authors of motion No 802 that we postpone it to another sitting in order to leave room for speeches on items not included in the agenda. TOSATO (LN-Aut). We accept, President. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I would therefore like to refer to the continuation of the debate on motions for a further sitting.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-06-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-841.ana.u46	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-06-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-841.ana.u47	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-06-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-841.ana.u48	D'ADDA (PD). Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, with this speech at the end of the sitting, today, in the Senate, a relay with which, together with many senators and many senators, we remember every woman who is killed at the hands of a man to whom she is or has been linked by a loving relationship. We will do so as long as it is necessary to remind Parliament and our country of the urgency of combating violence against women. Last week, in Busto Arsizio, my city, Diana Vrapi Koni was stabbed by her husband. I dedicate this intervention to you. But again: In Vergiate, in the province of Varese, last May 27, Renata Ottone, fifty-seven years old, was suffocated with a pillow by her husband, who then committed suicide. In Segrate, in the province of Milan, on 26 May, Antonietta di Nunno, a 35-year-old woman, was shot dead by her ex, who then committed suicide in turn. The two were breaking up, and they had four kids. Yesterday, in Venice, Anastasia Sharukova was killed, along with her current companion, who, among other things, probably comes from my province, from her ex. [[Brusio]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-06-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-841.ana.u49	Excuse me, colleagues, but we're talking about murdered women. Perhaps we should make a minimum of silence.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-06-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-841.ana.u50	D'ADDA (PD). Thank you, Madam President. It is no accident that this call comes from a woman. I was reporting the case of a young woman killed with her new partner, by her ex-boyfriend. Today we also learned that the poor girl was pregnant. This brings up to 61 the women we remember in our journey, which began only on June 30, 2016. And they would have been even more if, in Sanremo, two weeks ago, a 13-year-old girl had not managed to save her mother in extremis, to whom her father had set fire. The data presented by ISTAT at the end of March at the conference "Violence on women: the data and tools for assessing gender violence" tell us that feminicide is only the tip of the iceberg of male violence against women. In Italy there are more than 8.3 million women victims of psychological violence; 4.5 million women who have suffered, throughout their lives, degrading and humiliating sexual acts, unwanted and suffered relationships such as violence, abuse or serious physical sexual harassment, such as rapes (653,000) and attempted rapes (746,000). 20.2 percent of women between the ages of sixteen and seventy (4.3 million) were instead victims of physical violence, threats, slaps, fists or kicks. In a minority of cases, 1.5 percent, these violence has led to serious and permanent damage, by strangulation, burn or suffocation. Let us make our appeal with conviction. It is an appeal to the Government all and to the Undersecretary with delegation to equal opportunities: the directing booth monitors the application, the merits and the limits of Law No 119 of 2013, and above all give full and accurate implementation to the plan against violence. We need resources, we need research into causes, we need training. We need a strong commitment. Many of the women killed were mothers or, as in the case of this poor woman, were to become mothers. As estimated by the Switch-off project, presented in recent months to the House, it is estimated that over the last ten years there have been at least 1,600 children and children orphaned by mother or both parents if the feminicide followed the author's suicide. A drama in the drama. And again, an appeal to the media: stop justifying, even with the wrong language, the murderers and to blame women, even when they seem to defend their executioners. In a local newspaper in the Province of Varese, the expression "drama of passion" has appeared again. There is no passion if you watch for endless minutes, even twenty minutes, a woman who dies because you strangle her. There is only the darkness of an unspeakable horror. An appeal to the country, to men and women: more than 120 women were killed in 2016 and over 21 in this 2017. By the way, 2016 is a year when the other murders have dropped. Violence against women is as ancient as the world, but today we want to strongly hope that an advanced, civil and democratic society will no longer feed on reports of abuse, murder and rape. We do not want, we can no longer accept this madness that challenges us, calls us or rather cries out to our consciences of people and legislators, every time wondering if this step of deliveries will ever end and every time continuing it not to forget, as today. [[Applause from the PD Group and Art. 1-MDP]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-06-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-841.ana.u51	Thank you, Senator D'Adda, for this surgery.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-06-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-841.ana.u52	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-06-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-841.ana.u53	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-06-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-841.ana.u54	CERONI (FI-PdL XVII). Madam President, despite the fact that I have been trying for a few months to bring to the attention of this House the serious problems in the areas affected by the earthquake of 24 August and subsequent shocks, there is no result here. Also Decree-Law No. 50 of 2017, which the Assembly converted last Thursday, passed without the Senate being able to insert a comma, yet that decree contained about 15 articles related to the earthquake. The problems of the earthquake are clear to all: there is the problem of resources, which are insufficient and in any case, if they were sufficient, are not paid to the territory; there is the problem of the size of the crater, which is certainly not adequate to include the damage that the earthquake has caused in the Marche Region; then, there are the rules that make it practically impossible to cope with the emergency and reconstruction. Today two newspapers of national standing, such as the "Corriere della sera" and the "Republic" have noticed this state of affairs, so it is not only I who cry out the need to intervene and to cope differently with the earthquake in the Marches because, by now, in the rescue of this cry of pain that comes from the Marches, there are the two most important newspapers. I believe that this House must find a moment to bring the debate to the parliamentary level and see if something can still be done, otherwise the anger of the population and the dispute against the authorities become uncontrollable. Not only has the emergency not been resolved (because in February the government extended the state of emergency by one hundred and eighty days), but the reconstruction does not start either: there is still no small house or, if there are ten of the three thousand necessary, we are still at a completely insufficient level, the debris are still in the middle of the streets, winter comes again and I do not believe that the populations of the Marche can face the winter in the condition in which they have faced it in the past year. I ask the Senate to address this problem, which cannot be solved by finding a scapegoat. I know how it works, because I've become quite experienced: first Renzi jumped, who says it has nothing to do with it, who now has no responsibility because he is no longer President of the Council; now it will be the turn of Errani, because soon he expires the contract and will not be renewed; then the Presidents of the Region will have to answer. But the fact is that the condition of the Marches compared to the earthquake is that of departure. I'm asking the Senate to take care of it.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-06-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-841.ana.u55	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-06-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-841.ana.u56	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-06-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-841.ana.u57	DIVINE (LN-Aut). Madam President, I do not need to say great things to explain what Lake Garda is, the largest lake in our country, but also the crystal clearest and cleanest lake: it is a small pearl. Two regions and an autonomous province benefit from the economy around the lake: Verona, Brescia and Trentino. The concern of all of us in these areas is to preserve this little gem, for what it is from the environmental point of view, but also for what it represents for our economies. The circular sewage system is more than forty-five years old, it is all made of cast iron and there are considerable worries about any breakages: think what would mean the rupture of a circular sewage system that is almost on the shore of the lake, on the wet dryer, just below and sometimes surface. What could it represent? Economic damage of an inestimable nature, incalculable. On December 5 of last year, CIPE finally allocated 100 million euros for the renovation of the sewage system of the lake, with the condition that within a year the design and the execution were carried out. The Garda community has not seen a single euro of these 100 million euros. The overall project would cost about 250 million euros: the community, the Provinces and the Regions will do their part and the depreciation fees for the use could easily allow access to loans and a 20-year or 25-year depreciation. The problem is that we risk that, if this money does not arrive immediately, for local administrators it will not be possible to start the design: so it is a bit a cat that bites its tail. I therefore intend to appeal to the Government, precisely so that it perceives the importance of the lake and understands that it has gone into an administrative cul de sac and that it must do everything possible. At this point, it is the Government that communicates this availability to the local administrations and the community of Garda, because they run to provide for these works indispensable to maintain this jewel from the environmental point of view and of the great economies that even affect three provinces and three different regions. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group and the Senators Bencini and Bonfrisco.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-06-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-841.ana.u58	The motions, questions and questions received by the Presidency will be published in Annex B to today's report. I recall that the Senate will return to public session today, at 4.30 p.m., on the same agenda. The sitting was closed at 10.03 p.m.
