ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-815.ana.u1	The sitting was opened at 16.31 a.m. The Minutes shall be read. Mr SIBILIA, secretary, read the Minutes of the afternoon sitting on 27 April.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-815.ana.u2	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-815.ana.u3	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-815.ana.u4	TOSATO (LN-Aut). Mr President, I would like to ask for the vote on the Minutes, subject to a quorum check. Verification of quorum
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-815.ana.u5	I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators, by electronic procedure. (The request is supported). I therefore call on the senators to make their presence known by electronic means. (Follows the quorum check.) The Senate has a quorum. Resumption of the debate on the Minutes I put the Minutes to the vote. It's approved.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-815.ana.u6	The list of senators on leave and absent on assignment received from the Senate, as well as further communications to the Assembly, will be published in Annex B to today's Minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-815.ana.u7	I would warn you that qualified votes can be taken in the course of today's sitting by electronic means. Therefore, from this moment the period of 20 minutes from the notice provided for in Article 119, paragraph 1, of the Regulation (at 16.35).
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-815.ana.u8	The next item is the President's statement on the timetable for proceedings. Colleagues, the Conference of Leaders approved the agenda for the Assembly's work until 25 May. Starting this afternoon, the draft competition law will continue to be examined. This week's calendar also includes ratifications of international agreements and the follow-up to the bill on torture. On Thursday 4 May, at 2 p.m., Parliament is convened in a joint sitting for the election of a judge of the Constitutional Court. Therefore the usual afternoon session of inspection union will not take place. Next week, the Assembly will meet again from Tuesday afternoon, 9 May. In addition to the unfinished topics, the attached bill on self-employment, the draft Constitutional Law on Ladin linguistic minorities and the resolution of the Industry Committee on Participated Enterprises will be discussed. The calendar of the week from 16 to 18 May includes the draft law on the anti-mafia code, where concluded by the Commission, as well as the draft law on the recognition of the Italian language of signs and the demolition of abusive artifacts. During the afternoon session on May 16th, we will continue the examination of motions on Down's syndrome and hepatitis C and on stomached subjects. In the week from 23 to 25 May, the draft laws on the protection of characteristic citrus groves, crimes against public administration and space and aerospace policies will be examined. The timetable will be complemented by a government statement on the situation in Venezuela and Turkey. The Conference of Leaders also established that the examination of the citizenship bill, approved by the Chamber of Deputies, should begin on Thursday 15 June.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-815.ana.u9	The Conference of Presidents of the Parliamentary Groups, meeting today with the presence of the Vice Presidents of the Senate and with the intervention of the representative of the Government, adopted - pursuant to Rule 53 of the Rules of Procedure - the following additions to the program of the Senate's work for the months of April, May and June 2017: - Drawing of law n. 2233-B - Measures for the protection of non-entrepreneurship self-employment and measures to promote flexible articulation in the times and places of the subordinate work (Approved by the Senate and modified by the Chamber of Deputies) (Associated with the maneuver of public finance) (Final vote with the presence of the legal number) - Drawing of law n. 2134 and related - Amendments to the code of anti-mafia laws and prevention measures, referred to in Legislative Decree n. 159 of 6 September 2011, to the penal code and the rules of implementation, coordination and transitional of the penal procedure code and other provisions. Delegation to the Government for the protection of labour in companies seized and confiscated (Approved by the Chamber of Deputies) - Drawing of law n. 580-B - Provisions concerning criteria for the execution of procedures for the demolition of abusive artifacts (Approved by the Senate and amended by the Chamber of Deputies) - Drawing of law n. 1641 - Provisions for the safeguarding of characteristic citrus groves (Approved by the Chamber of Deputies) - Drawing of law n. 2291 - Amendments to Articles 317, 319-ter, 346 and 346-bis of the Criminal Code in the matter of crimes committed in relation to judicial activity - Drawing of law n. 1110 and related - Reorder of governmental competences in matters of space and aerospace policies and provisions concerning the organization and operation of the Italian Space Agency
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-815.ana.u10	During the same meeting, the Conference of Presidents of the parliamentary groups also adopted - in accordance with Rule 55 of the Rules of Procedure - the timetable for proceedings from 2 to 25 May 2017: [[Tuesday, May 2nd pom. h. 16,30-20 - Follow-up to draft law n. 2085 - Annual Market and Competition Act (Applied by the Chamber of Deputies) (Linked to the Public Finance Manpower) (Final vote with the presence of the legal number) - Ratifications of international agreements defined by the Foreign Affairs Commission - Follow-up to draft law n. 10-362-388-395-849-874-B - Crime of torture (Approved by the Senate and amended by the Chamber of Deputies) Wednesday 3rd " ant. h. 9,30 Thursday 4 " ant. h. 9,30-14]] For the single sitting on Wednesday, 3 May, the Presidency will be able to arrange suspensions in relation to the progress of its work. Parliament is convened at 2 p.m. on Thursday 4 May for the election of a judge of the Constitutional Court. Mr Senator will be voting first. The schedule of work will be complemented by an information from the Government on the situation in Venezuela and Turkey. [[Tuesday 9 May pom. h. 16,30-20 - Following unfinished arguments - Draft law n. 2233-B - Self-employment not entrepreneurial (Approved by the Senate and amended by the Chamber of Deputies) (Associated with the public finance maneuver) (Final vote with the presence of the legal number) - Drawing of constitutional law n. 2643 - Changes to the special statute for Trentino-Alto Adige/Südtirol in the matter of the protection of the Ladin linguistic minority (Approved by the Chamber of Deputies) (First resolution of the Senate) (Final vote with the presence of the legal number) - Doc. XXIV, n. 73 - Resolution of the 10th Permanent Commission at the conclusion of the deal awarded on the results of the main companies directly or indirectly participated by the State Wednesday 10 " ant. h. 9,30-13 " " " pom. h. 16,30-20 Thursday 11 " ant. h. 9.30-14 Thursday 11 May pom. H. 16 - Questions and questions]] Amendments to bill No 2233-B (self-employed non-entrepreneurship) and constitutional bill No 2643 (Ladin linguistic minority) will have to be tabled by 1 p.m. on Thursday 4 May. [[Tuesday 16 May ant. h. 11-13 - Motions on Down Syndrome and hepatitis C and Stomized Subjects Followed Tuesday, May 16 pom. h. 16,30 - 20 - Following arguments not concluded - Drawing of law n. 2134 and related - Changes to the code of anti-mafia laws and preventive measures (Approved by the Chamber of Deputies) (Ove concluded by the Commission) - Drawing of law n. 302 and related - Recognition of the Italian language of signs - Drawing of law n. 580-B - Demolition of abusive artifacts (approved by the Senate and modified by the Chamber of Deputies) Wednesday 17 " ant. h. 9,30-13 " " " pom. h. 16,30-20 Thursday 18 " ant. h. 9.30-14 Thursday 18 May pom. H. 16 - Questions and questions]] The deadline for tabling amendments to Law No 2134 and related (Anti-Mafia Code) will be set in relation to the Commission's work. Amendments to draft law No 580-B (Demolition of unfair artifacts) will have to be tabled by 1 p.m. on Thursday 11 May. [[Tuesday, May 23 pom. h. 16,30-20 - Following topics not concluded - Drawing of law n. 1641 - Safeguarding characteristic citrus groves (approved by the Chamber of Deputies) - Drawing of law n. 2291 - Changes to the penal code in the matter of crimes against the public administration - Drawing of law n. 1110 and related - Space and aerospace policies Wednesday 24 " ant. h. 9,30-13 " " " pom. h. 16,30-20 Thursday 25 " ant. h. 9.30-14 Thursday 25 May pom. H. 16 - Questions and questions]] Amendments to the draft law No 1641 (Safeguard of characteristic citrus groves), No 2291 (Amendments to the Criminal Code in the matter of crimes against public administration) and No 1110 and related (Spatial and aerospace policies) will have to be tabled by 1 p.m. on Thursday 18 May. Time distribution for discussion of draft law No 2085 (annual market law and competition) (10 hours, excluding explanations of vote) [[Rapporteurs 1 h. Government 1 h. Votes 1 h. Groups 7 hours, of which: PD 1 h. 26' FI-PdL XVII 49' Mixed 49' M5S 44' AP-CpE 39' Aut (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT)-PSI-MAIE 33' ALA-SCCLP 31' Art. 1-MDP 31' GAL (GS, Pp, M, Id, E-E, MPL, RI) 30' LN-Aut 29' Dissentents 5']] Time distribution for discussion of bill No 2233-B (Non-Entrepreneurial Self-employed Work) (7 hours, excluding explanations of vote) [[Rapporteur 40' Government 40' Votes 40' Groups 5 hours, of which: PD 1 h. 1' FI-PdL XVII 35' Mixed 35' M5S 31' AP-CpE 28' Aut (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT)-PSI-MAIE 23' ALA-SCCLP 22' Art. 1-MDP 22' GAL (GS, Pp, M, Id, E-E, MPL, RI) 21' LN-Aut 21' Dissentents 5']]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-815.ana.u11	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-815.ana.u12	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-815.ana.u13	DE PETRIS (Misto-SI-SEL). Mr President, I am here, once again, to draw your attention and the whole House's attention to an issue which, frankly, is beginning to become no longer tolerable. You have just read the proposed timetable approved by a majority of the Conference of Leaders. On the question that I have put to the attention of this House and the Heads of Group (but I believe that there are so many associations and people who have raised it in front of many colleagues) there has once again been a path that is absolutely hypocritical. I'm talking about the citizenship bill. I would like to remind all my colleagues that the measure has been approved in the House of Deputies and has been in the Senate for a year and seven months now. From election to referendum, the examination of the bill continues to slip. Now the last proposal for a timetable for work is, once again, that the examination should begin after the first round of the local elections. Obviously, we are afraid of negative consequences, from an electoral point of view, arising from the examination of the measure in this Chamber, finally taking it out of the Commission, from which it will not go out with the rapporteur. This is already written. We must take responsibility for bringing the measure to the House, even if the examination has not been completed in the Commission. It is a question that concerns the legal civilization of the country, it is not just a question of solidarity. The 1991 law on citizenship is now old, it is a no longer effective instrument. There are about one million people - men, women and children - waiting: they are B-series citizens, all of whom consider themselves Italian - and they consider themselves to be Italians - but who cannot have the recognition of citizenship. We are being proposed to bring the measure to the House on 15 June and finally we have access to the possibility of calendarizing it by omitting the Commission's conclusion, but I repeat that this is an absolutely hypocritical operation. I would remind you that it was already said to bring the measure to the House after the local elections last year, then there was the referendum and it was said that we should wait for the referendum and now we have arrived at these new local elections. I do not think it is possible to go on in this way, but I believe that responsibility is needed. For this reason, Mr President, I propose that we schedule the measure in the week from 23 to 25 May and, to be precise, on 23 May, for a very simple reason, namely, if the Commission is in a position to do so, it will safely be able to finish its work on that date, and if it is not able, as I think it is now, and, above all, if the majority does not take full responsibility for it, we will never have the opportunity to examine the draft law. For these reasons, I think that we have all the time - about fifteen days from now to 23 May - to check whether it will be concluded in the Commission and, however, the final date for the beginning of the debate in this House must be between 23 and 26 May. This is the last opportunity we have, because I bet you, Mr President, that after the first round of the next local elections someone will come to the Conference of the Leaders asking that the examination be moved to after the ballot and we will continue this way, until the parliamentary term is concluded, without such a bill finally being able to see the light.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-815.ana.u14	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-815.ana.u15	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-815.ana.u16	Montevecchi (M5S). Mr President, I was not present at the Conference of Leaders, but I was given a report by our leader Carlo Martelli, who unfortunately cannot be here because of an institutional commitment. I am only doing this to stigmatize the fact that, according to Senator Martelli, there was no room for discussion at the Conference of the Leaders to change the calendar proposal as it had been presented to my fellow Senators. In particular, among other things, we want to stigmatize the fact that, with regard to scheduled motions, once again we have not considered the motions that the 5 Star Movement, already when Senator Gaetti was the Parent Company - we are talking about 2016 - and, subsequently, during my period of presidency of the Group, had repeatedly urged. Lately, at one of the last sessions in which I played the role of Parent Company, you, Mr President, had also taken notes on some of these motions. So we ask ourselves why, once again, we have before us a timetable in which there are no motions which, for months now, or since last year, we have been urging. Upstream had been introduced the Tuesday afternoon session for the motions and it was said that all political forces would have the opportunity to discuss their own, but this still has to happen for the 5 Star Movement and I still find myself stigmatizing it today. I hope this is the last time and that you, Mr President, will take this appeal to heart. He does not have to do us a favor, but he simply has to give us a right; a right that has often not been guaranteed to us as a force of opposition. In particular (now I take over the role of Vice-Cover), Senator Montevecchi asks to include in the calendar the urgent questioning that had been presented in mid-January. I do not remember the number of the Rule of the Rules of Procedure, but it seems to me that for an urgent questioning the time is not three months, but at most fifteen or thirty days. This urgent interrogation was presented in mid-January and concerned the dismissal of the dancing corps of the lyric-symphonic foundation "Arena di Verona" (Verona Arena), on which a shameful silence has dropped. A whole dance body has been reset in absolute silence. At this moment in the Commission we are also examining the reform of the code of live entertainment, in which, once again, measures are included concerning lyrical-symphonic foundations and in which, once again, little is said about the real responsibilities of those who have sunk down these foundations, whose financial disruptions are falling on the artistic masses, which are the heart, the lifeblood of lyrics in Italy. I therefore call for urgent questioning to be scheduled for 2-00437, and for Mr Franceschini to come to the House to answer on the matter. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-815.ana.u17	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-815.ana.u18	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-815.ana.u19	AUGELLO (GAL (GS, PPI, M, Id, E-E, MPL, RI)). Mr President, as you know very well, at least because I believe that this is the third time I have stood up in this House to raise this issue, I am the first signatory to a motion concerning the Council. This motion, which still does not appear on the agenda (not even weeping in Chinese), is now signed by 75 senators, far more than the fifth required by the Rules of Procedure so that this type of initiative... [[Brusio.]] Mr President, I am sorry, I trust you, because the most important issue is beginning to be customary between us. I'd like a little more attention. [[Senator Airola's comments.]] I was saying that 75 senators are, as you can easily calculate for matters of elementary arithmetic, far more than the fifth required by the Rules of Procedure for an urgent procedure to be recognized for this motion. Among other things, by sitting on the Presidency's table at the Conference of Leaders for two months, citing the urgency procedure becomes an involuntary case of regulatory humor. If you consider it appropriate, we can reopen the subscription and even get the signature of 100 senators, but I would point out to you that this is not a referendum, but a motion, so the 75 senators, belonging to all the Senate Groups, should be more than sufficient. It is, of course, particularly regrettable that I have to remind every debate on the timetable that there is a procedure in the Rules of Procedure that must be respected. I can understand that there have been calendar problems at the Conference of Leaders for the various festivities, or any other explanation, but you are the President of the Senate and have the authority and authority to enforce the Rules of Procedure. From tomorrow we invite colleagues - and they have already come several - who have not yet signed, to come forward if they want. I would not like to reach the extra-parliamentary approval of the motion, since, in the end, we have a majority in the Senate that subscribes to it. Be nice, you are the President of the Senate and you have all the tools to enforce the Rules of Procedure and I am tired of having to remember that. I hope, therefore, that the end of these holiday periods will allow us to respect the times and to discuss, approve or reject this motion, as 75 senators have been asking unnecessarily for more than a month.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-815.ana.u20	Senator Augello, for his knowledge, has been addressed the problem of motions by urgent procedure, also those proposed by the Opposition Groups, including the 5 Star Movement, and it has been temporarily decided to try again, starting from Tuesday 16 May, to complete the examination of the motions that have been started and not concluded and then to move on to those with emergency procedure. It will therefore certainly be our duty to schedule them as soon as possible; we will continue to try Tuesday from 16 May to discuss the motions as it was agreed with the agreement of all the Groups, which, however, could not be achieved, as you well know. I am very optimistic, however, that we can continue along this line.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-815.ana.u21	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-815.ana.u22	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-815.ana.u23	SACCONI (AP-CpE). Mr President, I must point out to you and to the House as a whole that the draft law on self-employment was adopted in the Commission on 5 April. We are at the third reading and I would like to remind you that when this House had the opportunity to examine this measure, there was not a single vote against it, so we are talking about a measure which has had a broad consensus in this House and an equally broad consensus, albeit with changes, in the Chamber of Deputies. My proposal is that this measure should not be further postponed as in the case of a timetable, but should be examined immediately after the draft competition law. I remember that it is a bill linked to last year's law of stability, so I really do not see reason to pose the examination, as it corresponds to a widespread demand in the world of self-employment and the liberal professions, both those ordering, as well as those not ordering and establishes important safeguards for a dimension of the work whose fragility is being highlighted in a growing way, unfortunately, in the great transformation of the work that we are living. My formal proposal, therefore, is to change the timetable in the sense that I have indicated.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-815.ana.u24	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-815.ana.u25	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-815.ana.u26	Hundreds of thousands (LN-Aut). Mr President, as announced at the Conference of the Leaders, the request is one: the possibility of having President Gentiloni Silveri or even Minister Alfano (so much the result in the end would be the same) in this House to report on the alleged relations between NGOs and the scafisti. Given all the information that is coming through the media and the fact that we are talking about a dossier that is on the table of the President of the Council, who was also Minister for Foreign Affairs, we ask the Government to report back to the House. With regard to the speech of the ius soli, then of the bill on citizenship, in part I agree with the Parent Company of the Mixed Group, Senator De Petris, who is right when he says that you are afraid to bring the measure to the Assembly whenever an electoral deadline approaches: do the phenomena after the elections or when we are far from the elections, you are repeating to the world how important the ius soli is, but then when you approach the elections the fear is ninety and then you ask the President of the Senate and this Assembly to schedule the examination on 15 June, it happens after the first round of the local elections. [[Brusio.]] The challenge facing our colleagues - in a very unworthy Chamber, Mr President, because it seems to be at the fish market - is to ask for the measure to be scheduled before the local elections or, if necessary, (this is my official proposal) directly on 27 June. The doubt that comes to us, having been chosen the date of June 15, is that the president of the Democratic Party, who made the request, does not take into account that after a week there are ballots. So take it for granted that you're not going anywhere at the ballot. Don't tell us that you will win in the first round, because this is your dream: maybe it could come true in Smurflandia or Mickey Mouse.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-815.ana.u27	So, you're asking for a move to June 27th.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-815.ana.u28	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-815.ana.u29	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-815.ana.u30	Mr Bencini (Misto-Idv). Mr President, in all this roundup of subjects, which lasts until 15 June, I did not seem to see the inclusion in the calendar of draft law No 2719 concerning the orphans of femmnicide. This is a measure that agrees with all the political parties, because the House was voted on 1 March and found unanimity. I therefore hope that this bill will be taken into account. A press conference was held here in the Senate on 23 April to urge that the measure be discussed in the Assembly. You have also been urged and in turn urged the Commission to do justice. I therefore ask whether it is possible to integrate this bill into the timetable for our work from now on to 15 June.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-815.ana.u31	Senator Bencini, I will answer you immediately because, at the unanimous request of all the Groups, the deliberating headquarters was decided. The request is already in place, so today I have to prepare the letter to invest the Commission in the deliberations on this bill. I therefore believe that there is no reason to proceed with the inclusion in the timetable of the work of this House. We have already taken a step forward.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-815.ana.u32	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-815.ana.u33	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-815.ana.u34	BELLOT (Misto-Fare!). Mr President, after a shameful silence that has lasted for more than a year, I think it is important to bring back to the attention of the draft law n. 1082 which provides for the passage of the Municipality of Sappada from Veneto to Friuli-Venezia Giulia. We have had meetings and interlocutions; it has been a year since that act which everyone has seen in this House; I am referring to the unjustified withdrawal of the measure which could not be discussed or voted on. Since the time has come for us to come to the end of this parliamentary term, I believe it is necessary to bring this bill to the House to give an answer, to confirm that it has also seen a unanimous vote in the Committee on Constitutional Affairs. I strongly ask that, at the end of the parliamentary term, there should be a willingness to bring this measure to the House in order to give a response to the people who in a very correct way, with a well-defined process, have made it possible for the Senate Assembly to be examined.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-815.ana.u35	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-815.ana.u36	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-815.ana.u37	BOTTICS (M5S). Mr President, I would like to ask for the draft law to be included on the agenda of the Committee of Inquiry into the Forteto. Urgent procedure was adopted on 24 November; on 24 January the text entered the Commission and even today, despite the expiry of the deadline for amendments, it never appears on the calendar. I ask all the Tuscan MPs, especially the former Presidents of the Tuscany Region, to convince their party, the Democratic Party, to vote in favour. Moreover, since the primary was won by Mr. Renzi, I would like to remind you that a few days before the arrest, Fiesoli was presenting a book in the presence of Matteo Renzi himself. Therefore, since we all agree that we must avoid any doubt that the PD, that is the Democratic Party, is guilty, voted in favour of the establishment of this Commission of Inquiry and really shed light on what has been a tragedy and continues to be a horror, since Italian politics still does not take charge of it. I would ask you, Mr President, not to put my request to the vote as a date for new draft laws, but to take a separate vote because I would like everyone to take responsibility for voting yes or no to the Committee of Inquiry into the Forteto. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-815.ana.u38	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-815.ana.u39	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-815.ana.u40	MALAN (FI-PdL XVII). Mr President, I rise to propose, not only what Senator Centinaio has already proposed, that is to say, to put it on the table from 15 June to 27 June, but above all to include the wording 'where it is concluded by the Commission'. I remember that this bill is under discussion in the 1st Constitutional Affairs Committee and that the last substantive session on the content of this measure is of 12 April, but not of 12 April last (two weeks ago), but of 12 April 2016. So I would not like the omission of the wording 'where concluded by the Commission' to mean that the Commission will not examine the measure at all. We do not want to repeat things that have already happened in the past, because I believe that such a complex measure should be examined in its details. There are those who complain that many amendments have been tabled, but certainly not by the Forza Italia Group, which has tabled a limited number of them. In the meantime, however, we are beginning to deal with them and put them to the vote and then, if necessary, in a future revision of the timetable, we will be able to examine the fact that we are bringing the measure to the House even if the examination has not been completed in the Commission. In fact, the examination in the Commission has not even begun from the point of view of votes. I repeat that the last session of merit took place on 12 April 2016. I'm gonna close by saying something. Perhaps at this moment most Italians have other priorities than a bill that evidently aims to increase the number of foreigners who acquire Italian citizenship. In 2015, under the current law, 178,000 foreigners obtained Italian citizenship; in 2016 they were certainly many more, a number close to 200,000. If that is not enough, it is obviously because we want to increase the numbers and make up for those who may no longer vote for certain parties, making them come from abroad. I believe that most Italians have other priorities and that this, rather than being a priority, considers it a negative aspect. [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII. Senator Manconi's comments.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-815.ana.u41	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-815.ana.u42	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-815.ana.u43	WAR (Art. 1-MDP). Mr President, I too am speaking on the issue of the right of citizenship and the right of ius solo. As an Article 1-MDP Group, we attach great importance to this draft law, of which Senator Doris Lo Moro from our Group is rapporteur, and we would like it to take place seriously in this House and to arrive with a rapporteur. That is why I welcome Senator Centinaire's challenge to schedule the provision soon. Of course, if Senator Centinario renounced a obstructive attitude and had his Group withdraw a few thousand of the 8,000 amendments he tabled to prevent a path of this bill, we would immediately agree. As this is not happening, we very much appreciate the decision of the Conference of Leaders, which we have supported and proposed, together with the Democratic Party, to schedule the measure in this House anyway, giving the Commission a sufficient time to try to do its job. This is the logic for which the date of June 15 was chosen. It is not a date conditioned by the local elections, or else we would come to stare at it after the ballot. It is therefore very important that this happens and I believe that it is a commitment that the Conference of Leaders has made in front of the country. The measure can no longer be postponed. [[Applause from the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and ……]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-815.ana.u44	So you do not propose any change in the calendar, Senator Guerra, but a confirmation of the approved calendar.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-815.ana.u45	We greet the students, the students and the teachers of the Institute of Higher Education "Guglielmo Marconi" of Anagni, in the province of Frosinone, who follow our works. Hi, guys. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-815.ana.u46	We shall proceed with the votes. I put to the vote the proposal to amend the schedule of the Assembly's proceedings aimed at anticipating the examination of the bill on citizenship to 23 May, made by Senator De Petris. It's not approved. DE PETRIS (Misto-SI-SEL). Let's ask for a rehearsal. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I order the doors closed. We proceed to counter-test by electronic procedure. It's not approved. I put to the vote the proposal to amend the timetable for the Assembly's work to include further motions. It's not approved. I'll take the rehearsal. I order the doors closed. We proceed to counter-test by electronic procedure. It's not approved. I put to the vote the proposal to amend the schedule of the Assembly's proceedings to anticipate the examination of the draft law on self-employment by discussing it immediately after the one on competition, put forward by Senator Sacconi. It's not approved. SACCONI (AP-CpE). Let's ask for a rehearsal. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I order the doors closed. We proceed to counter-test by electronic procedure. It's not approved. We shall now proceed to the vote on the proposal to include an information report from the President of the Council of Ministers or the Minister for Foreign Affairs on NGOs and scafisti in the calendar of proceedings of the Assembly. Verification of the CANDIANI quorum (LN-Aut). We're asking for a quorum check. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators, by electronic procedure. (The request is supported). I therefore call on the senators to make their presence known by electronic means. (Follows the quorum check.) The Senate has a quorum. Resumption of the debate on the agenda of the president's session. I put to the vote the proposal to amend the agenda of the Assembly to include an information from the President of the Council of Ministers or the Minister for Foreign Affairs on NGOs and scafisti, made by Senator Centinario. It's not approved. CROSIUM (LN-Aut). Let's ask for a rehearsal. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I order the doors closed. We proceed to counter-test by electronic procedure. It's not approved. I put to the vote the proposal to amend the agenda of the Assembly to postpone the examination of the bill on citizenship to 27 June, made by Senator Centinario. It's not approved. DIVINE (LN-Aut). Let's ask for a rehearsal. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I order the doors closed. We proceed to counter-test by electronic procedure. It's not approved. I put to the vote the proposal to include in the calendar of the proceedings of the Assembly the examination of the draft law on the establishment of a Committee of Inquiry into Forteto, made by Senator Bottici. It's not approved. BOTTICS (M5S). Let's ask for a rehearsal. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I order the doors closed. We proceed to counter-test by electronic procedure. It's not approved. I put to the vote the proposal to amend the timetable for the Assembly's work to include the discussion of further draft legislation. It's not approved. I'll take the rehearsal. I order the doors closed. We proceed to counter-test by electronic procedure. It's not approved. I put to the vote the proposal to amend the timetable for the Assembly's work to include the clause 'where concluded by the Commission' with reference to the examination of the draft law on citizenship, put forward by Senator Malan. I would remind you that the proposal to postpone the examination to 27 June has already been voted on. It's not approved. MALAN (FI-PdL XVII). Let's ask for a rehearsal. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I order the doors closed. We proceed to counter-test by electronic procedure. It's not approved. We shall now proceed to the vote on the proposal to amend the timetable for the Assembly's work to include the urgent questioning 2-00437 on the Verona Arena.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-815.ana.u47	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-815.ana.u48	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-815.ana.u49	Montevecchi (M5S). Mr President, thank you for putting my request to the vote, but I would remind you that a Rule of the Rules of Procedure provides for time obligations. Beyond the vote that this House will be voting on, which means that I will take note of the interest of my colleagues in the various political forces and, above all, my colleagues in the Culture Committee who are examining this measure - and I will therefore look at how they will vote on this request - I would remind you that an article of our Rules of Procedure provides for certain timings. I do not want this House's resolution to make sure that the questioning goes to the cavalry, because I will always call on you to comply with that Rule of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-815.ana.u50	Senator Montevecchi, you thus remove any validity to your request, since we were evaluating the calendar. If you have made a request that you do not want it to be put to the vote, we will not vote on it. Since you have made the request, then we shall vote on it. Having said that, with regard to urgent procedures, do not forget that there has been a Conference of the Leaders which has taken its decisions and that, in order to amend them, we must vote on its request. I think that's obvious. You will then take note of what is happening in this House. I put to the vote the proposal to include in the calendar of proceedings of the Assembly the examination of urgent questioning 2-00437 on the Verona Arena, made by Senator Montevecchi. It's not approved. Montevecchi (M5S). Let's ask for a rehearsal. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I order the doors closed. We proceed to counter-test by electronic procedure. It's not approved.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-815.ana.u51	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-815.ana.u52	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-815.ana.u53	Mr Quagliarello (GAL (GS, PPI, M, Id, E-E, MPL, RI)). Mr President, just so that it is left in the Minutes, I would ask you to bring forward the debate on the motion concerning the Council, on which the signatures for the urgency procedure have been collected. Today expires on the 30th day. I am well aware of the interpretation that this term has been given. But, in order for this House to assume its responsibilities, I call for my request to be put to the vote and, therefore, for the debate on this motion to be held at the end of the 30th day, in accordance with our Rules of Procedure. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. It was already voted when I asked if there were any new motions. Among the new motions there was also this request. Mr Quagliarello (GAL (GS, PPI, M, Id, E-E, MPL, RI)). It remains as a specification intervention.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-815.ana.u54	Let us record your request and take it into account in the future. The timetable for proceedings adopted by a majority of the Conference of Leaders and communicated by me to the Assembly remains therefore final.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-815.ana.u55	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-815.ana.u56	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-815.ana.u57	MINEO (Misto-SI-SEL). Mr President, Valentino Parlato died this morning. I met him in 1971 at the foundation of the communist newspaper "The Manifesto." I was young editor and he column of the newspaper. I have recently seen him again and again at his house and Maria Delfina, with his friends Luciana Castellina, Filippo Maone, Emanuele Macaluso. I heard Macaluso this morning and he told me about him: A good man, but of a certain goodness. His son Matteo had dedicated a documentary to him naming him "Life and adventures of the Lord of Bric in Brac" because he reconstructed his memory as in a drawer full of precious stones, but also of fake objects, great things and fake coins, that Valentino knew to keep together, not only for goodness - I believe - but because his political passion and his journalistic profession were made of this, determination and doubt. Expelled from Libya because communist, proofreader and then journalist of the Unity, then of the Rebirth, founder of the manifesto, was therefore communist, but also liberal, much more liberal, ladies senators, than many who even in here say they are, but always have an anathema in their teeth. Valentino was not only a great journalist, but also a wonderful economic analyst, friend of Federico Caffè, with Roberto Tesi who was a pupil of Caffè and who wrote for the poster. Sometimes he came to the editorial staff from a long conversation with Carlo Azeglio Ciampi. "The conversations between us" - he wrote - "He, Governor of the Bank of Italy, and I, journalist of "the manifesto," were free and unqualified; indeed, I would say with a certain curiosity and for me of great stimulus." Both - spoken and I - have Sicilian origins. We have often disagreed, at least a hundred times, with his tendency to keep one thing together and that which seemed the opposite, such as the popular protest of Reggio Calabria and the fascist revolt of the "boy" who let go or perhaps for my haughtiness with which I looked at the history, which Valentino was dear, of the Communist Party and of the preventive mediations and the reason of party that often prevailed over everything. I have always learned something by discussing with Speaking, reading the things he wrote and from his sarcasm, perhaps good, which sometimes even remembered the inimitable one of Luigi Pintor. On 24 October last year he wrote: "After Mattarella, Scalfari will tell us that the Pope also votes yes to the referendum in a critical analysis explaining that oligarchy is not the same as democracy. I wanted to say thank you to Valentino Spoken, and I hope also on behalf of many of you. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-815.ana.u58	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-815.ana.u59	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-815.ana.u60	FORNARO (Art. 1-MDP). Mr President, the Senators and Senators of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democratic and Progressive Movement) also associate themselves with the mourning for the disappearance of Valentino Parlato, who was a critical conscience of our society, even before the critical conscience of the Italian and European left; a man with clear vision and clear political and ideal convictions, but above all a free and passionate man. [[Brusio]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-815.ana.u61	Colleagues, I ask you to show sensitivity to a memorial. Please go and talk outside the Chamber.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-815.ana.u62	Please, Senator Fornaro. FORNARO (Art. 1-MDP). Valentino Parlato was a free man, a free journalist and passionate about a civil passion even before politics. His history and commitment, after his experience as an official of the Italian Communist Party, are intertwined with that of "the manifesto" that goes out daily on 28 April 1971 until it overlaps: "the manifesto" of which he was founder and always protagonist in the ups and downs of his history. His criticism of capitalism has always been hard, meaningful and incisive, but at the same time he has never made discounts on the limits and distortions of communism in its state dimension. Finally, in recent years, in his writings his reflection, his critical gaze had turned to the crisis of capitalism and to the effects of its financialization and globalization, to the degradation of work and its progressive and constant transformation into goods without rights, with the loss for an entire generation of young people of the project of life replaced by a precariousness without future; a contemporary world that worried him because otherwise - they are his words - our children and grandchildren will have to suffer a long and barbaric Middle Ages. We're gonna miss your raw as well as shiny tests. We will, however, remain taught not to lose sight of ideals, the momentum that a modern left must never lose, that towards equality and the fight against unemployment, the low wages and the dignity of work and workers. Thank you, Valentino, for the earth to be mild. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-815.ana.u63	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-815.ana.u64	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-815.ana.u65	TRONTI (PD). Mr President, the news of the disappearance of Valentino Parlato is so recent that we can only make it a commemoration, a very short and completely inadequate memory. Valentino Parlato is a person who dies at the age of 86, but who has at least seventy years of political and intellectual militancy behind him. He is, therefore, a person on whom we will still have to think for a long time and whom we will need to remember in the immediate future. He was the son of a Sicilian state official sent by the Fascist Government to Libya, then an Italian colony, and in fact he was born in Tripoli on 26 February 1931 and had remained in North Africa even after the end of Italian domination in 1943. However, his communist militancy at the age of youth had misrepresented him in the eyes of the British authorities administering Libya, which became a protectorate of London; so he had been expelled in 1951 and landed in Rome. He immediately enrolled and fought in the Italian Communist Party of Togliatti. He first became a party official in Sicily and then a journalist in Unity; he highlighted a remarkable capacity for writing and a great interest, which has already been mentioned, in economic problems. He was also a man with a remarkable practical sense, as he would have shown in managing the difficult accounts of the manifesto, which came several times to the brink of the crisis. The cult of continuity and all kinds of bureaucratic routines were very close to him. It was above all the need to open a frank, open, critical debate in the Communist Party of the time when this debate was struggling to emerge and to impose itself that pushed him towards dissent, as editor of the communist weekly "Rebirth." It was thus, alongside Rossana Rossanda, Luigi Pintor, Lucio Magri, Luciana Castellina and Aldo Natoli, that he founded the magazine "il manifesto" (the manifesto), whose heretical attitude was absolutely incompatible with some customs borrowed within that great party. They were therefore disbarred by fractionism in 1969, a measure that made them free to pursue, on the wave of the Sixty-eight student and the autumn hot operary, a perspective of revolutions in the West completely unrealistic, but also capable of exerting a critical spirit of which there was a great need on the left. From the newspaper "The Manifesto," then became daily in 1971, Parlato had taken over several times. And the manifesto is a newspaper that still lives and participates in the political battle and we must be grateful to him to keep this flame alive. It was one of the few places of politics where one chose a very, very difficult position to support. The members said to always and punctually stand on the side of the wrong. Men of this kind - partisans and fighters for the cause in which they believe and yet civilized, tolerant and always able to listen and never completely closed in their conventions - we will miss them. It is in the face of the consistency of a strong and at the same time kind position that it is necessary today to bow down wherever you look in the daily public struggle. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-815.ana.u66	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-815.ana.u67	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-815.ana.u68	Carraro (FI-PdL XVII). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should just like to add a few brief remarks to everything that has been said about Valentino Parlato. I believe that among people culturally, politically and ideologically of the left he was among those who had more relations, even friendship, with people who thought it diametrically opposed to their own. The truth is that Speaking had some peculiar characteristics. He not only believed in his ideas, but respected his interlocutor; he was an intellectually refined person, but never gave the feeling of being more equipped, intelligent and prepared than his interlocutor. Valentino Parlato was a person available to dialogue, of great quality, very consistent with his ideas, but also very open to dialogue, discussion and consideration of the topics he did not share. I think it is right to acknowledge all this and say that, by losing his person, Italy loses a very important value. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-815.ana.u69	He asked the government representative to intervene.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-815.ana.u70	Mr President, on behalf of the Government I agree with a lot of words that have been said so far to remind us of Valentino Parlato. He was the expression of a left-wing thought that I would define freely critical, made of conviction, respect, determination and tolerance. It was the expression of a culture that broke the patterns to imagine other horizons, always keeping them open without closing lines. Unfortunately we live a time that forces us to separate ourselves from thinkers actors, builders of politics and bearers of ideals that have built long thoughts in a global vision ante litteram. I think it would hurt to forget these contributions, stories and cultures. On behalf of the Government, I would like to express closeness to Valentino's family and friends Speaked and make my own Senator Mario Tronti's words. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-815.ana.u71	In expressing, on my own behalf and on behalf of the Senate of the Republic, our sentiments of mourning and closeness to family members, I propose to observe a minute's recollection. [[The President stands up and with him the whole House, who observes a minute's silence.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-815.ana.u72	The next item is the continuation of the debate on draft law No 2085 already approved by the House of Deputies. Senator Stefani is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-815.ana.u73	Mr President, my speech is a brief speech on a complex and difficult bill. The timing of approval confirms that this is a measure that affects too much interest and, when there are too many interests, it is probably difficult to find agreements within the majority. (17.31) (Follows STEFANI). In my brief speech, I will only comment on a few points, while the study will be carried out by my colleagues, who will examine and discuss the text of the bill better. First of all, I would like to highlight Article 6 of the text of the draft law in the current wording: it is clear - as is expected - that we will have to talk about a large amendment. In the meantime, however, let's go see what the text provides for our examination, so that Italian citizens know about it. In this article, in which we talk about the indication of the witnesses of claims with only damage to things, we propose an intervention that we consider absolutely destabilizing the principles of our legal system. In essence, the draft law requires that witnesses be identified, in the event of an accident, already in the complaint of an accident or in the first formal act of the injured person against the insurance undertaking. We would also like to say that the insurance undertaking will be able to make a request for the indication of the witnesses to which it will have to reply and whatever else. Colleagues, we are talking about undermining the prince's proof, the evidence recognized as fundamental by the order, which is the testimony, so that the defender and the party acting in court must have the freedom to refer and quote witnesses. In this case, however, we are going to create more bureaucracy and more bureaucracy and there is no provision for any corrective measures. For example, in the event that the registered letter sent by the insurance does not go well, for some reason, what happens in the process? Is it possible to ask the judge for the witness to be heard anyway, because the objective impossibility of timely identification has been proved? It's not like that, but you go to trial without witnesses. This is a rule that has obviously been introduced to limit the right to defence, to limit the right of the person to demonstrate what happened. Let us remember that Article 24 of the Constitution says that the right of defence is inviolable and must therefore be guaranteed to the full, without limiting a judicial action, coming fundamentally to the aid of the insurance companies. Let us not hide behind a finger: this rule, in the end, will have that objective. Let's move on to another subject, which may be going through almost silence, because you don't realize the consequences. I am referring to the rule which provides for the amendment of the private insurance code, basically providing for the renewal of the delegation for the issue of the famous tables for the quantification of biological damage. Already because of the rule that came into force in 2005 we were not talking about the famous tables that now, by decree of the President of the Republic, are adopted. We underline and highlight that Article 38 is amended in relation to the current wording by introducing a provision that says that the tables will be adopted and defined • in order to guarantee the right of the victims of the claims • but above all • to rationalise the costs of the insurance system • and then, to soften, • on consumers • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • We are talking about establishing and establishing tables that will determine the biological damage that is quantified and for which compensation is claimed in court or out of court, taking into account the rationalization of the costs of the insurance system. [[Applause from Senator D'Ambrosio Lettieri]] Not only that: we have just passed a law, the famous Gelli-Bianco, on medical civil liability. In that rule, if any of our fellow citizens had not noticed it, for the determination of biological damage in the event of medical error, we refer to these same tables, i.e. tables which must take account of the rationalization of the costs incurred on the insurance system. Among other things, there is a provision - let's also call it a form of personalization of the damage - for which the damage determined according to the table can be increased up to 30 percent by the judge, with fair and justified appreciation. Let us remember another measure, so that the right hand knows what the left does. It was approved, precisely by the Chamber of Deputies, on 21 March of this year, a provision in which it is said that, in the case of biological damage, the tables are those of the Milan court: tables are taken that determine a measure of compensation for the damage for all the hypotheses of damage to the person, with the exception, therefore, of damage from road accident and damage from malpractice and medical error, for which the tables will be drawn up taking into account, precisely, the problem concerning the costs imposed on the insurance system. We're talking about several treatments related, basically, to damage to the person, to biological damage. From this it cannot be deduced that these rules are made for the use and consumption of insurance companies. It is not understood, then, why for all the damage to the person there is the possibility that the judge increases the damage, considering that fair appreciation, of which was said before, even up to 50 percent, while for the damage from road accident or medical error you can have an increase limited only to 30 percent. We are highlighting a number of features that concern two rules, to keep quiet about the others and the possibility that other measures would be included in this measure which would certainly have genuinely protected competition, and not rules that are said to protect competition and that ultimately only protect certain bodies. And we have always raised some concerns about this, which we will preserve and continue to make clear. We have put forward some amending proposals and we hope that they will come to the vote, although it seems to me that this will not be the case. In this case too, let us close the discussion and discussion on a subject, reaching the usual conclusion: the vote of confidence on this as on other measures. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group and Senator D'Ambrosio Lettieri]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-815.ana.u74	Senator D'Ambrosio Lettieri is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-815.ana.u75	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, it would be an act of grave irresponsibility and arrogance if this measure were to be approved by a vote of confidence, as the so-called corridor voices insistently say. It would be an act of arrogance and irresponsibility for many reasons, the first of which, Madam President, is that we would once again deny the value, the meaning, the significance, the warning of that stone behind its back, on which it is said that here everything speaks to us of greatness, but at the same time everything reminds us of our duties. And our duty, Lords of the Government, is to keep the legislative power in balance with the executive power. It seems that this does not happen and it is an absolutely serious fact. But it is even more serious if we consider the work that has been done in 10a Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to congratulate Mr Macchetti and his colleagues, Mr Marino and Mr Tomaselli, who have had the competence and patience to find the most balanced points, but also the courage to say, at the time of the presentation of the measure, that they must return to the Commission again for the latest corrections. And these are corrections that are determined not by ideological contrasts on a subject that lends itself also to various evaluations, but by a bipartisan commitment - as has been said by many colleagues also of opposition, and as I repeat - that would allow and still allow to bring points of improvement today. And in doing so the field - ladies and gentlemen - would be removed from the increasingly disturbing suspicion that the Government wants to flag the subject of liberalisation, privatisation, development and competition in order to hide particular interests, to hide - as has been said in many interventions - the interests of real, large monopolies or oligopolies in the construction phase. The issue of liberalisation is, in fact, important, but I agree with the rapporteurs in considering that liberalisation is not the panacea to all problems in order to recover a horizon of growth, a perspective of development and greater competition, which declines precisely and punctually the value and significance of a bill on competition, which must be to put in competition equal economic models in order to determine a better level of access to citizens at a lower cost. That doesn't seem to happen to me. It does not seem to me that we are going in the direction of prioritising the spill-over effect on citizens, as it would be desirable. I do not want to dwell on the many documented observations that have been put to the attention of the political decision-maker. I quote only one, the one with which 12 consumer associations have pointed out that the concentration of the retail market in a few vertically integrated operators, rather than producing greater competition, will result in the consolidation of a substantially monopolistic situation. And that is more or less what will happen through the process of selling the precious network of Italian pharmacies, insofar as, by bringing in such a sloppy and disordered way the capitals, with a 20 percent roof for each of the societies, would obviously result a sort of subdiction of the profession with respect to the logic of capital and an oligopoly capable of controlling important pieces of a sector in which priority interests of our welfare and health protection policies are realized. And on this too our amendments have been measured, proactive and absolutely not oriented towards a obstructive position. Why not add the adverb to it as a whole when it comes to 20 percent? 20 percent can also be increased. But, if it is maintained as part of the proprietary asset of the pharmacy system, the priority is the prevalence of the profession. Conversely, this would remain a slave and a victim of profit, in a logic where evidently, in a generous and graceful way, the Government wants to serve on a silver plate one of the most important territorial assistance networks that strengthens our National Health Service. This is the point of the amendment: an adverb for the protection of a system which, in a dynamic of modernization, can also allow the entry of capital, but never to a degree prevailing in relation to the primacy of the profession. Another aspect concerns the watchman of the profession: a professional who supervises the exercise of the function so that the professional act, in a logic of freedom of exercise of the free profession, is always homologated to the principles and respect for the ethics of service and not to those of profit. A fundamental aspect, which I entrust to the evaluation of the Government, is the possibility of predicting that the capital companies will pay 2% of their turnover in the cashiers of the pharmacists' pension institution. This hypothesis is linked to what happened in 2004 with article 1, paragraph 39, of Law n. 243, which, when the entry of capital into society and medical services was foreseen, imposed the date of two percent. Conversely, an asymmetry would result in the current revenues of the professionals, in their pension fund: instead of continuing to make the full contribution, they would give the reduced contribution by employees of the capital, undermining the conditions and the absolutely solid assets of the pension institution for the benefit of pharmacists and their pension insurance and cover system. These are small adjustments that I believe can be made. It would clear the field from the suspicion that you want to do something different from what you promise; that you want to gracefully meet the demands of the international economic potentates in a country already bent and broken by an economic crisis, which instead should find ransom in a more determined logic that, recovering the pride of the tricolor, restores strength to those productive sectors that can more and better give guarantees to all citizens. This is the hope which I express to the government's lords, renewing my pleasure to my fellow rapporteurs and - if you will allow me - committing the Assembly to for once, to the obedience of the party prevails the obedience of conscience, which means giving feedback to the sovereign people, in whose name we work here today. [[Applause from the Mixed and LAG Groups (GS, PPI, M, Id, E-E, MPL, RI) and Senator Mandelli]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-815.ana.u76	Senator Girotto is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-815.ana.u77	Madam President, I would like to make a few brief comments. The draft competition law is certainly an extremely important measure, which could lead to a positive leverage on the relationships that millions of citizens have every day by buying hundreds of products and services. On the other hand, we face a market too often in the hands of a narrow oligopoly, which also often sees situations of unjustified privileges and substantial injustices. Of course, we respect the rapporteurs, who have said that they appreciate the work done by the 5 Stars as constructive opposition, but we cannot escape from a judgment on the results that we have failed to achieve. For the short time I have available, in particular on the electric market, I would like to point out that we will have 24 million customers who will be given literally to the aggressive energy sellers; they will be expelled from the protected market and will end up playing hard among the sellers of the free market. This, most likely, will cost 24 million users an electricity bill increase of about 20 percent. In this case, we have therefore made the rules transmitted by the House worse. I would like to remind myself and the Italians, above all, that we have repeatedly considered and stated that this bill, drawn up by the former Minister Guidi, is a measure that still protects, above all, the interests of partisans, not the interests of the public and citizens. It is therefore largely ineffective in improving the situation with regard to insurance, medicines, the professions, transport, communications and energy. We are certainly not the only ones criticising this measure, as criticism has been voiced even by authoritative members of the majority. I would remind you that the President of the 10th Commission, Mr Cucchetti, has stated that this is an unambitious law and that it would have been better to hit monopolies more. Mrs Lanzillotta, too, had long ago judged that this measure contained insufficient rules; then a few days ago, in general discussion, she changed her judgment, while ours remains absolutely negative. This is a great pity, because we could have avoided wasting time, if there had been more common sense on the part of the Government and the majority and if a reflection had been opened on some of the proposals presented by the 5 Star Movement. I take only one for all, that on the distributed generation, that is on the possibility for everyone to produce energy from renewable sources and to be able to give it to the neighbors of house or shed, through a private network. This is an absolutely permissible possibility, regulated and even encouraged by Europe; whereas in Italy, which is a very trivial form of energy democracy (produce and sell everyone freely), it is obviously not possible, because of the strong resistance of an electric system that still remains highly centralized. It has not been possible to change this situation, despite the fact that the PD itself has tabled an agenda signed by Senator Valdinosis, who has been approved, despite the fact that Antitrust has told us to do what I am saying and despite the fact that an amendment has been tabled, signed by me and the whole parliamentary arc (it has been signed across the board). I would like to thank the Members who have signed the amendments tabled in this direction. There was also a collection of signatures, which received about 40,000 signatures, precisely in this sense. Well, despite all this, the rule has not been changed and the profits of large distributors and producers of fossil energy have been protected, rather than collective welfare. Now, despite everything, this is still the time of this Government, which has two roads: to let go of the boat (as long as the boat goes let it go), even if we are in a stormy situation, or to return to the Commission, as several colleagues have wished, not only for some formal corrections and for some expired dates, but to improve some substantial aspects of the measure, otherwise this will have been yet another missed opportunity. [[Applause from the M5S Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-815.ana.u78	Senator Berger is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-815.ana.u79	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, Secretary-General, this measure comes to this House so late (in fact, too late). The Commission concluded its work several months ago and among the rules contained in it there are some which had to enter into force as early as 2016 and which are now partially outdated. Despite this delay, the revision of the text had to take place in the Commission and not, as it seems, by means of a large amendment. This is because there are several aspects that need to be updated and that deserved careful study. The text was born many months ago and the picture in which it will be dropped has changed. The patient was left alone for a long time and it is not necessarily that the therapy then is still valid. In addition, the Commission has worked in a climate of great harmony and constructive cooperation between all its components, which is why this work of updating the text could have been carried out quickly and effectively. I have personally participated in the work of almost all the Commissions in this Senate, and I must say that the work in this Commission has been carried out in a climate that I have not yet found in others: an atmosphere of cooperation, of respect among the members, both of opposition and of majority, and you, Mr Undersecretary, also as a representative of the Government, have collaborated in an open manner. Therefore, I would like to thank very much the rapporteurs, Mr Tomaselli and Mr Luigi Marino, and Mr Cucchetti for the climate present in the Commission's work. In the Commission, as well as in the House, very important improvements have been introduced. I am thinking above all of the rules for the bodies and those on booking, which loosen a direct knot on the relationship between large and small subjects in the insurance sector and the hotel offering. The risk, in both cases, was to leave the large groups the possibility to determine the market by imposing rules and prices on all others. A kind of occult oligopoly, with hotel facilities or bodies that would have gone into great difficulty. This is why the changes introduced must be seen as rules to protect small and medium-sized enterprises in these two specific sectors. The competitiveness of the country system is an objective to be pursued every day, and it is even more so in a rapidly changing world, with a global market where technological innovations call for an even greater effort. Just think about the theme of ultra-wide band or 5G technology, which will soon completely revolutionize our industrial system with the full advent of Industry 4.0. But these great changes must be guided by politics. The institutions have the task of enhancing our entrepreneurial system, the whole network of small and medium-sized companies that have paid a very high price in recent years, because it seems that politics has not been able to understand that the great transformations of globalization, if not carefully guided, overwhelm the small one to the full benefit of the great. And for our country there can be no competitiveness if this does not start from the specificities of our production system, composed above all of small and medium-sized companies. I believe that the main merit of this measure has been that it has taken on board this logic, confirmed also by the great attention - as I have already pointed out - that has been given in the Commission's work to the amendments that all the groups have tabled. Among those proposed by our Group are also the amendments related to the energy sector, to protect small and medium-sized companies, as well as the interest of users. The timing, however, is a critical element, which requires immediate intervention: the functional unbundling of energy companies will enter into force on 30 June. An extension to 31 December is urgently needed if the text of this law does not achieve its objective. If we had returned to the Commission, the issue of small photovoltaic plants could have been better addressed. I believe it is of little use to control and sanction hundreds and thousands of very small plants on the quality, certification and origin of materials. It would certainly be better to close the match of about 300,000 plants under 3 kilowatts with the liquidation of a reduced lump sum resulting from the calculation of the incentive potentially foreseen for the incentive period, so the amount of work and loss of time linked to controls, calculations, payments and the sanctioning of almost 300,000 small investors and families would be reduced. This would be an exemplary model of sburocratization and would provide spending potential; not indifferent sums, freeing users and the operator from endless calculations and sanctioning procedures on a case-by-case basis. But this isn't over. Among other issues there is the very important obligation of bilingualism for the notaries of the Autonomous Province of Bolzano to align national legislation with the provincial one. On this the Commission had referred to the debate in the House to find a suitable solution before the question of trust was raised by the Government. The German-speaking minority must be guaranteed the right to public acts in its own language, as provided for in our Statute of autonomy. Otherwise the Province of Bolzano will be called to challenge the norm. That is why we urge the Government to find a solution as soon as possible. These are all issues on which the government will have to intervene as soon as possible, but above all they are examples that make the idea of why a rapid return to the Commission would have been more useful. We take note of the Government's decision to table a large amendment; it is an assumption of responsibility that we respect, but leaves a whole range of issues on the ground. Indeed, as the rapporteur, Mr Luigi Marino, has rightly said, this is a measure that concerns a plurality of areas and gives the idea of how much really there is still to be done to modernise our system, to put it in the best conditions to compete and meet the needs of citizens and businesses. I agree with him when he says that it is an important but not decisive measure, for the simple reason that no law, not even the best, alone is able to deal with all the nodes that affect our system. At the same time we needed to get there in a different way, with a greater speed certainly, but, at this point, with a measure that really solved as many problems as possible. The hope remains that the final text will meet the expectations of such an important measure and that all unresolved issues will be addressed as soon as possible. Some, as in the examples I have given, are very urgent and must be put at the centre of the agenda for the coming weeks and days. I see the glass half full and not half empty and I look with optimism and great hope to the sensitivity of the government. [[Applause from the Aut Group (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT) - PSI-MAIE]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-815.ana.u80	Senator De Biasi is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-815.ana.u81	Madam President, I too would not like to associate myself, starting with the rapporteurs, with all those who have said that in two years there are many changes and that, therefore, it is inevitable that a competition law, which should be annual and a very dynamic instrument, is affected by this blockade and that there is therefore a need for an update that I hope can be achieved quickly with the next competition law. Many things have changed since the first liberalisations and a budget is now imposed on certain sectors, of which I would like to speak briefly. A merit of this bill is to have rewritten Articles 138 and 139 of the Insurance Code on non-equity compensation. This is an important aspect of health because this measure is finally linked to the recently adopted law on the professional responsibility for health activities and for the safety of care. Everything can be done better, but there is no doubt that the reference tables are a reality today thanks to this competition law. While before they were the result of the work of the judiciary - I think of the famous tables in Milan - today thanks to the competition law, they can become in practice a certain point of reference normative that not only protects professionals of the health professions, but above all citizens because it gives them a certainty. That is the first point. They are tables that define the value of a damage not only asset but also moral. They are, therefore, particularly important and significant. I believe that this, among the many limitations that can be found, is a very important fact that will allow practical work to be carried out on the application of the law on professional responsibility with regard to the safety of care, which I consider to be one of the most important measures of this legislature. The second point - and I will go very quickly - concerns the planet of pharmacies, liberalisations and competition. I believe that further consideration will be needed in the forthcoming Competition Act, because there is no doubt that there are substantial and very important changes. Therefore, I would like to thank the rapporteurs and the Commission for the fact that they have accepted the conditions laid down by the Health Commission. We are, of course, delighted. In particular, I am thinking of the need for the pharmacist to be present in the new ownership structures. This seems obvious to me, but it was not so before. It is a useful reflection. Second, another not indifferent element, it is important that in the new ownership structures in each Region the same subject can hold at most the property of 20 percent of the pharmacies. This is an important point, although not entirely satisfactory. I believe that this is not just a problem with the competition law, but with the concept of liberalisation because - and I am also introducing the third issue - we are talking about services of the National Health Service. In the Health Pact it is clearly stated that pharmacies are part of the National Health Service and provide drugs that are not considered as one commodity like the others. Then there are two problems: the first concerns the relationship between large and small distribution. Certainly I will be told that the supermarkets have supplanted the small exercises. But in this case we are talking about a completely different service. I am thinking, for example, of rural pharmacies and the objective difficulty faced by a citizen. If we continue on the road to large-scale pharmacies, I wonder what will happen to pharmacies in smaller countries that are often one of the few points of reference for the inhabitants. It is a real problem that affects the lives of citizens, not just the income of the pharmacist, as has been mentioned in some speeches. It's not like that. It's not just an income problem. Of course there is also that: if the pharmacy sells less undoubtedly there will also be a closing problem. In my opinion, however, a somewhat more orderly work should be carried out on this than has been done to date and, I repeat, not in the Competition Act. For example, competitions for new pharmacies are blocked by the Regions. In the thousand-pronged period, however, we have provided for a further extension. Liberalisation must not mean merely confrontation with the market. Liberalisation must also take into account the needs of citizens, also considering that we are talking about the National Health Service and therefore what is called the pharmacy of services. Supermarkets that sell beautifully from cosmetics to shoes and anything else are useful but very relatively. We need to redefine in a modern way the function of the pharmacy as a point of reference and service for the citizen. Very often, since Italy is long and composed of small municipalities, the pharmacy is, in fact, the only reference point of a health nature. This concerns not only the elderly but all. I therefore think that, despite the change envisaged by the Commission and which I very much appreciate, a little further work needs to be done. The third and final point concerns C-belt drugs, which are not present but have been mentioned throughout the debate. We know, in fact, that they are one of the great elements of discussion, also the subject of some e-mails that we would have liked to do without receiving, I say it very sincerely, because I think they are the result of a lobbying that perhaps might even get settled. It has been a long time since the first liberalisations were made, as I said at the beginning, and a very big problem has been created: the parapharmacies are an Italian anomaly. There is no such thing as a parapharmacy in Europe. Let's ask ourselves a few questions. I personally believe that a redefinition of the parapharmacy must be achieved. I do not think it was a brilliant idea to ask for the presence of a pharmacist in the parapharmacy because this obviously involved an A-series pharmacist and a B-series pharmacist, which is unacceptable from the point of view of ethics and professional placement, as well as of professional and social ethics, in this field. Alongside this, however, I believe it is equally unacceptable to think that the corners of large supermarkets have parapharmacies that can sell C-band drugs. 18.14 (De Biasi follow). He explained why: First of all, there are so many sentences and they explain very clearly that the drug is not a commodity like the others, so it is not a soap. If we look at the trend in the data of gang C drugs in recent years, until 2016, we realize that the private consumption of one particular category has increased, namely that of so-called nervous drugs, such as benzodiazepines, tranquilizers and anxiolytics. To those who consider it important to sell C-belt drugs in supermarkets I would like to say that this would lead to an increase in the use of benzodiazepines, tranquilizers and anxiolytics, which - let me say - is a big nonsense. Do you want to allow you to buy three for the price of one, so you lower the price? That is not the issue, I remember that we are talking about drugs and not a detergent or a soap. We are talking about a pharmacy, that is, a function of the National Health Service. I believe that the issue of parapharmacies and pharmacists should be addressed and resolved, for example by finally checking how many parapharmacies are owned by pharmacists who also own pharmacies. Having cleared the field from this element, we must begin to understand that pharmacists working in the parapharmacies have the right to be like others. However, it is necessary to avoid transforming the corner of a supermarket into a reduced waste pharmacy, essentially for medicines for the stomach and the ruling apparatus, or - worse still - the nervous system. I say this because we are not talking about a commodity like the others. As a nice slogan says, when we talk about medication there are people, in addition to things. [[Applause from the PD Group. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-815.ana.u82	On behalf of the Assembly, I greet the students and teachers of the Institute of Secondary Education (Pertini-Montini-Cuoco) in Campobasso, who are attending our work. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-815.ana.u83	Senator Mandelli is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-815.ana.u84	Mr President, it is a pity that confidence is being placed on a very important measure such as the one we are debating. I would like to thank the Senators Marino and Tomaselli, as well as President Mucchetti for the ability and patience they have demonstrated during the long and tormented process, which has certainly been managed in the best manner. Many speeches have been made in this House over the last few days. Looking for documentation to prepare the surgery, I found an interesting data that intrigued me and I would like to remember. The "Bruno Leoni" institute, which is certainly not accustomed to giving severe notes to the country, indicates in 70 cents the score of which Italy can decorate itself within a progress towards liberalization, thus placing the country in sixth place in Europe. This is a result that secures Italy and the concerned colleagues can be reassured. Turning back to the substance of the measure we are discussing today, I think it is a shame to put trust in it. In fact, the bill deserves more. First of all, there should be Parliament's ability to give a real response to the many, too many issues that are being addressed. Some have said that the plurality of areas affected makes it perhaps a bit difficult to complete the solutions. The deepening of individual themes (I do not say one by one, but certainly not of all together, as happens in the provision) would perhaps have allowed a more peaceful examination, because many are the themes that the bill addresses. Remembering them all is impossible, but I would like to mention the issue of energy, namely the obligatory transition to the free market, which is very important. There are also the themes of the black box, the coachmen and the hotel bookings through booking. I also recall the issue raised by lawyers about the possibility of bringing in with capital the members of the studies, therefore with their will to ask questions about the origin of the capital. The problem of the tables, mentioned by Senator De Biasi, will make it possible to deal more fully with the issue of insurance compensation. There is also the theme of the possibility of the insurance coverage: in short, the topics dealt with are many. In my speech, however, I would like to make a point concerning the health sector, on the subject of pharmacies, which has been very much debated. The first question I would like to raise is the compulsory participation of professional partners. This is in fact one of the measures contained in the bill, aimed at increasing competition in pharmacies, which will certainly have a great impact. I think it is a mistake not to foresee the compulsory participation of professional members and it seems singular that for other companies - I quote those of lawyers, to have a tangible example - there is a need to have a balance, with a third composed of capital and two thirds composed of professionals. With regard to pharmacies this forecast, this consistency, this legal fairness is not provided for, but, as has been pointed out several times in this Assembly, the bill provides that any company wishing to take an interest in this important sector may have no more than 20% of pharmacies for each region. It does not refer to the share of 20 percent of capital in a company, but to the ownership of 20 percent of pharmacies for each region. This is clearly an asymmetric fact: given that many times we repeat ourselves, in order to find a justification for our attitude, which Europe asks of us, it must be remembered that Europe supports instead that the representation of professionals guarantees precisely the quality of the service. To foresee that 20% of the total pharmaceutical companies are owned by the capital companies, excluding the compulsory corporate participation of pharmacists, in my opinion it does not create possibilities for the future of our health, as we have predicted so far. When a society does not find it more convenient to have an open point of sale - I mean small pharmacies, which give a great service to the population - it will find itself making a profit account and there will no longer be the owner or the company of owners, as I would have preferred, who can tighten their teeth - out of pride, dignity, but also because it is the only job they have - and continue within a demanding and compulsory path. On the other hand, the capital company will make its own accounts and, on the basis of the economic result, will make a clear and precise decision: surely this is not a positive fact. All the data - and I am referring in particular to those of one of the most important research institutes in the health sector - identify the possibility that 5,000 pharmacies in Italy represent 80% of the market, in volume and value. 5,000 pharmacies in Italy make the market. Combining the two predictions is clear that, while having the property of few pharmacies - that is 20 percent in each Region - you could have the totality of the market that counts, that makes the number and - allow me the coldness - the business. It would have been better to lower this limit, in order to leave more possibility of having independent pharmacies, which could compensate the profit and loss account with the pride of the profession. In my opinion, this is a sensitive issue to reason on, partly because, as it has appeared in the newspapers these days, the pharmacies market is proving very easy. On the one hand, some recent judicial investigations show that it is very permeable by non-honest groups, of the underworld, who have tried to do business in comfortable areas. I am referring to an investigation being carried out in Milan, whose owner is Magistrate Boccassini: it is therefore a fact that I am not telling here today for the first vote. On the other hand, there is also an economic fragility, because - when you hear it - the contingency is pushing more and more pharmacies to fail. This is a very common reality: it is not difficult to find the failures of pharmacies reported in court bulletins. So an already fragile market, with this forecast could become very fragile, to the advantage of some important realities. If it is inevitable that capital should enter, as provided for in the draft law under consideration, it would have been better to foresee someone's control. I don't want to be held back or silent to look in the rearview mirror at the future of the country, but perhaps the prediction of a deontological control of these realities (the capitals that enter the pharmacy) would have been the only way to try - perhaps a little naively - to give a minimum of logic to these interventions. Despite we have requested it, the professional orders will be excluded from the control of those companies that will be able, therefore, to buy and manage how they will want these realities: they will certainly put (as is required by law) a pharmacist, but you know very well, unfortunately, how difficult and strict the logic of capital, compared to those who have to bring home the loaf for his family. To have, therefore, the possibility of controlling, at least deontologically, the activity of these companies that are about to take over our market would, in my opinion, have been very important. Article 58 contains another anomaly: unlike the provisions in favour of the National Insurance and Medical Assistance Board (ENPAM) for entry into medical companies, companies entering the capital of pharmacies will not have to contribute to the cash of pharmacists. We will therefore have a serious asymmetry because, in view of the entry of these capitals, there will no longer be an obligation for the holders of the pharmacy to pay the pension fund; we will have the entry of capital that will not contribute to the fund, putting in difficulty the balance of the institution, which is not a positive fact. You know very well, in fact, that the crates are, yes, private, but the holes are always difficult to handle. It would have been appropriate to provide, in analogy with the provisions for ENPAM and other funds, for the capital to pay a share to these social security funds. Finally, an invitation. Forza Italia would be in favour of the measure being part of the Commission. I assure the Group of Forza Italia the possibility of having a fast path, that it is not obstructive and that it really goes to try to correct the inconsistencies, because, after a year that this measure has seen the light (the works were concluded in July-August last year), I think it is necessary to give the country something more modern, active and coherent, even in the light of the debate. My invitation to the rapporteur and the Government is, therefore, to bring back, as soon as possible (as far as Forza Italia is concerned, it will really be the minimum possible time and I take responsibility for what I say on behalf of the Group) to introduce the necessary corrective measures. The country needs some liberalisation, but not hasty liberalization, which will bring more damage than benefits. [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-815.ana.u85	He's enlisted to speak Senator Battista. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-815.ana.u86	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, representatives of the Government, in our examination we have a complex and complex measure, which deals with many areas, which affects interests and aspects of us all: energy, insurance and pension funds, communications, postal services, professional services, health services, environment and transport. My speech will not be focused on one of these specific issues, but wants to deepen a topic highlighted by the rapporteur Marino himself during the illustration: the lobbying, or rather the relationship between public decision-makers (i.e. us parliamentarians and members of the Government) and stakeholders (i.e. those who refer to the topics covered by this bill). The lack of regulation of lobbyists is indeed yet another missed opportunity for a very long series. I would have liked more attention from the government in addressing this issue as done on other occasions. At the same time, we MEPs have not been incisive in imposing this issue on the parliamentary agenda, perhaps unknowingly even betrayed by a request to include this subject in the draft competition law, despite the fact that the examination of the Senate Act 1522 had already begun in the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, which saw me as a signatory to this initiative together with my colleague Mr Orellana, who is its first signatory. A path, I would remind you, started in the Commission on 11 September 2014, which, after a wide round of hearings, saw a deadline for amendments (more and more extended), but these amendments have not yet been developed. In the face of this impasse, it was decided then to find space in the draft competition law, but the results were the same: nothing in fact, also receiving a negative opinion from the Budget Commission as there was no technical report on the creation and management of the institutional website, where the Committee for the monitoring of the representation of interests established at the Secretariat General of the Presidency of the Council of Ministers, should have guaranteed the publication of the contents of the appropriate register within a dedicated section, including through the publication and periodic updating of the data communicated by the representatives of interest. I understand the respect of the parliamentary regulations and the attention to keeping the accounts in order, but the excessive rigidity of these parliamentary procedures seems more like a time veto for not wanting to deal with the regulation of lobbying despite the first legislative proposals go back even to the 9th legislature. Not to mention the countless attempts to regulate the representation of particular interests among public decision-makers, I think it is paradoxical that once public funding for parties has been abolished, lobbying cannot be regulated. Can we continue to subject policy to the crossfire of judicial actions, media and public opinion (including social networks) without guaranteeing a principle of transparency and accountability of decision-makers? And again, would it not finally be appropriate to simplify and rationalise the interaction between entrepreneurs and legislators so as to promote economic development in a clear and honest way? Professor Ainis, in his recent editorial, called the Lobby Act another ghost of our order, reminding us that in the United States the Lobbying Act dates back to 1946 and is constantly updated, as in Europe from the years 2000 onwards ten other countries have endowed themselves with an ad hoc law. My invitation, then, is for something to be done with the aim of removing once and for all our ghosts. The presidency of the Senate itself could take an initiative like that of the other branch of Parliament, although it has been done with not so incisive measures; in the same way, the government should start an organic path and not just leave the initiative to the individual Dicasteries. I shall conclude with a more current reflection than ever. If we had had a clear regulation of the representatives of interests today, would not a subject such as vaccines have been dealt with more seriously and on the substance, instead of easy propaganda by those who just want to see the shadow of the pharmaceutical industry? [[Applause from the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and ……]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-815.ana.u87	Senator Perrone is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-815.ana.u88	Mr President, Mr Undersecretary, ladies and gentlemen, as a member of the Senate Industry Commission, I cannot help but express a deep regret to this House for yet another opportunity which our country has failed to grasp fully and which could have removed those barriers which are still limiting competition in different economic sectors. The text we are debating today, in fact, after a hiccup, was catapulted by the Government directly to the House, despite repeated appeals, including those of the rapporteurs, to return to the X Commission. It is not a whim, Mr Undersecretary, but a necessity that arises from the awareness that it is necessary to make necessary changes and additions; shortcomings that have occurred because of the long period between the approval of the draft law in the Commission and the incardination of it in the Assembly. Expectations on this measure are many and varied: from the abolition of persistent monopolies to a different regulation of certain economic sectors, to the cancellation of current restrictions on free economic initiative, with benefits on production and consumption. The awareness of these important implications for the national economy has led to a long and tiring process, but not for this inoperable. In this respect, I would like to point out that having added twice as many articles as the text presented by the Government did not constitute a demerit attributable to the action of the so-called lobbyists on parliamentary work. No subjects have been added; they have been better specified, since not all liberalisations started over the years have achieved the desired objectives. I refer, for example, to the case of the decree-law on liberalization issued by the Monti Government, which, since it required the enactment of implementing decrees, has remained largely disregarded. A risk to which we are also submitting this draft competition law, unless there is an improvement in the text. Likewise, I believe that the criticisms made by former Prime Minister Matteo Renzi of the work done by the senators are unjustified. We have done 134 hearings of civil society representatives with due attention, knowing that having a full knowledge of the current situation is a prerequisite for providing for new rules, which are immediately effective and applicable, for a long list of areas. True, the times could have been shorter, but these delays are due exclusively to the Government and internal conflicts of the majority: starting with the stop sign wanted by the majority at the approach of the local elections of 2015, to the request to suspend the work made by the Government in the context of the interchange between Minister Guidi and Minister Calenda; to the electoral campaign for the referendum last December. An incomprehensible attitude, especially if compared with what was written in the 2016 Document on Economics and Finance. It was the Government that predicted a growth of 0.4% of short-term GDP and 1.2% in the long-term, due only to the approval of the Competition Act, which should have been finally approved by June 2016. Speaking of data, last April 19 ISTAT recorded a decrease in investments for the seventh consecutive year, equal to 4.5% in 2016. This means that the Italians, Mr. Undersecretary, prefer to keep their money in the bank or invest it abroad, rather than create new businesses and jobs in their own country. It is very serious that citizens do not have confidence in the state because of the cumbersome rules, the excessive length of bureaucracy, the lack of legal certainty. Yet, we do not have many alternatives: in order to go back up the slope, Italy must return to being competitive, therefore credible and reliable. The stakes are very high, so all the political forces, each respecting their role, took part in the work in the Industry Commission in a constructive way, aware of the responsibility that was placed on each of us. The new rules on the gas, electricity, fuel, mobile telephony, insurance and professions sectors, to name but a few, if approved, will ensure easier and more understandable access to services, both for businesses and consumers. This has also been achieved thanks to the amendments tabled and adopted by the 10th Commission. With regard to mobile telephony, for example, rules have been introduced to facilitate the transfer of customers from one operator to another also by means of telematics, promoting greater transparency of withdrawal costs and limiting the ability of operators to bind the customer. We have also acted to ensure greater security of personal data, especially with regard to delocalised calls centers in non-European countries, against which it is difficult to ensure these safeguards. Rules have also been laid down to facilitate the dissemination of electronic micropayment via mobile phones, for example for the purchase of tickets to museums and entertainment shows or for non-profit liberal payments. Also relevant are the RC car rules, with discounts and reduction of policies and more incisive anti-fraud measures, but also with the guarantee of obtaining full compensation for non-capital damage in case of claims and with the discounts on the insurance premium for those who install on their car a black box or safety devices based on alcohol test. I will conclude with a reflection. The Authority will shortly present a new report on competition, which could frustrate some of the work done so far, since the text of the Government is dated April 3, 2015. To this we must add that some of the rules laid down in the draft law have been incorporated into other provisions and that, because of the long process, certain deadlines laid down in the text are not practicable. I therefore hope that the Government will be able to grasp the suggestions that have been put to its attention before the presentation of the maxi amendment. On the other hand, the importance of the draft competition law for the country cannot allow improvisations of the last moment, nor conveniences linked to political deadlines. [[Applause from Senators Giovanardi, Liuzzi, Marino Luigi and Cucchetti]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-815.ana.u89	Senator Casaletto is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-815.ana.u90	Mr President, yesterday Italy recalled its second and important civil anniversary, on 1 May, the Workers' Day. In this celebration I would like to remember and understand also the hundreds of thousands of entrepreneurs, of value creators, of producers of income and well-being who, despite the policies of this Government and the previous ones, still believe in the enterprise and its economic, cultural and social value for the well-being of the Italians. I put them together, the producers of income, to put them in opposition to the subjects that this bill on competition - where genuine free competition is the engine of the development of creativity and human work - privileges and protects in a total and shameful way: I am talking about income earners, the European liberal financial power. This real power, at all hidden, very well represented yesterday by the Anglo-Saxon Blairs and today by the French Macrons and Matteo Renzi, does not work, does not produce, does not create. Nor does it provide resources to the most deserving companies to obtain them, as it should do, because it is based precisely on oligarchies that favour only the large groups, leaving the lifeblood of the small and medium-sized enterprise sprinkled by the state taxes and the complete degradation of the concept of free competition. This debasement is just reading, with difficulty, the various and confused folds of this measure, continuously rewritten and continuously amended, so as not to leak that it is only the umpteenth mockery to the Italian population that works and produces. The Government now follows the words directly from the Treaties and regulations of the European Union. It does not succeed, nor does it want to attempt its own self-regulation of the orders it receives from the ECB and the European Commission. Orders concerning the complete financialisation of professions having characteristics of public functionality, such as that of pharmacist or lawyers. It says Gentiloni Silveri that a positive signal must be given in Brussels (read: to our masters), that on the serious delay of the draft competition law has already had several times occasion to wander us officially, in order to gain some point in the negotiation on the flexibility of the accounts and reforms. So, with contempt for Parliament, you will once again have to ask for trust and show yourself deaf to those who ask you for details on how lawyers' companies will be set up, these law firms where capital partners will enter that could have very strong conflicts of interest with the same clientele as legal members of the company. And we're talking about administration of justice. Nothing is said, because everything must be allowed, even with regard to the control of capital partners in pharmacies: you are not liberalising anything. You are not freeing the citizen from the constraints of the bureaucratic machine and from the power of foreign holding companies. You are selling out the country's productive activities and services to the latter, increasingly undermining the skills and ingenuity of young people and small and medium-sized professionals and entrepreneurs. In this way you have been implementing, for years now, a systematic and institutional transfer of public resources and private citizens to the most economically advantageous people in society. A real redistribution on the contrary, from the bottom up, which absorbs resources from the community to concentrate them in the hands of very few privileged (banks, insurance, multinational companies) and their butlerdoms (turboliberal governments, like yours, in Europe). Therefore, I hope that the Senate, with its authority, will reject this yet another act of submission to this absurd European model that favours the few and subdues the many. Above all, it subdues the active and productive forces of society, camouflaging the complete financialization of important productive activities and services of relevant public and social value as a saving and a model of transparency for consumers. You tend to this. To transform the entire population into user-consumer and to make it, precisely by virtue of the oligarchic aggregation into a few multi-function holding companies, completely subject to the contract, instead of the law and the general public interest. And do you have the courage to call this competition? PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. She's enlisted to speak Senator Puppato. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-815.ana.u91	Mr President, I would like to thank the representative of the Government for his presence, which allows us to talk about the draft competition law, which is an extremely long-awaited measure but which, as a result of the position of the issue of trust, necessarily leads us to become critical of the changes and limitations that this draft competition law has and that we will unfortunately not be able to amend, with the hope of course that this will happen in the House. Today's news, which refers to at least one of the points on which I would like to speak and which seems to me to be of enormous size and seriousness, concerns the fact that the cassation has rejected claims-made health insurance contracts. The motivation of the Cassation is that the insured person is placed in a condition of indeterminateness and uncontrollable subjection ex Article 1322, second paragraph, of the Civil Code. This tells us that there are contracts of quality, content and complexity such that the individual customer, by definition weak subject, the citizen must be put in a position to have an appropriate intermediary, that does not sell him whistles for fiascos but that above all allows him to be aware of all his actions, so as to avoid suffering an obvious disparity of potentiality compared to those of the insurance companies. The abolition of tacit renewal in non-compulsory insurance, which is going to be subtlely incorporated into this bill, is therefore a gift to large insurance companies and damage to citizens. The amendment passed in the Industry Commission, apparently, has led to the view that it is open to free competition that it can choose to remove the tacit renewal in damages contracts, but that is not the case at all. Contracts are not a tax, nor an extortion to which the citizen is subjected despite him (that, if necessary, happens for compulsory policies). In the damage branches the covers are voluntary. The citizen or the company evaluates them on the market, evaluates the most suitable coverage, informs, talks about them, reads and concludes that guarantee with the company or agency that it believes of its own confidence or that it has had the best ability to explain and therefore the ability to enter into that trust relationship. But they are complex policies, which concern primary goods such as health (we have seen that the Cassation has intervened in this regard), safety, its own buildings and business activity, and it is clear that these contracts are of considerable importance. In fact, there are clauses, descriptions, born from evaluations and requests that are accepted by the agent and by the company itself, very often special and with attachments. Why should the customer find himself after a year simply in a position to not be able to enter into the same conditions for which he had worked last year? Maybe just because there's a left? Maybe just because his health conditions have changed? It is clear, in fact, that if instead you conclude a multi-year contract, maybe even ten years - a real noose around the neck - that prevents any form of cancellation, instead the customer must keep that contract, even if he does not want it anymore. So why, if I sign for twelve months my contract becomes paperwork, and if I sign for ten years instead that contract doesn't take no one, really nobody, not even my will? We would be the only country in Europe (the only one, because there isn't another) to have as a choice for customers annual temporary contracts, without tacit renewal, or multi-annual, thus taking away part of the opportunities offered to the citizen customer who in all parts of Europe, especially in those countries with great insurance traditions (as in Northern Europe, look a bit), exist and are for the most part stipulated: I refer to contracts simply annual with tacit extension and with the possibility of cancellation by the client - not companies - also limited in time, for example within thirty days, that allow to maintain those conditions, that tariff and those formulas that had been requested, protected and guaranteed. That is why I think it is mandatory for the Government to intervene on Article 12 that we have included in the draft competition law, because what we are doing is really a bad gift to the citizens and customers of this country, who want to feel free to choose, but also want to feel guaranteed when they put their trust and drop their choice on the same agent and the same insurance company. Among other things, this formula, as amended, also calls into question the trust relationship with the insurance intermediary, a sector that today has about 40,000 employees in Italy, among professional agents, subagents, collaborators and employees of the same insurance agencies. I think we are making a mistake, but I hope that the Government will not allow it and that the House of Deputies will modify it, otherwise it will be a problem for a very large sector of our country. [[Applause from the PD Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-815.ana.u92	Senator Crimi is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-815.ana.u93	Mr President, for ten years governments have been bouncing the drafting of a legislative decree aimed at combating the phenomenon of abuse in the field of public taxi transport. It has been ten years and it has taken an amendment, put in secret nighttime, and then a taxi driver protest in front of us to get something, that is, what is in this bill on competition. What does it say? In fact, it's a new delegation law. What do you make up after ten years? A new delegation law in which the Government is delegated to issue a rule to regulate the taxi service and the rental with driver. It will probably take another ten years to see real regulation of the service. The part linked to the contrast of abuse, which was one of the central elements, is relegated to the last paragraph, with a "but also" a bit of Veltronian memory. Some people try to attribute positions to this political derby, because every time one tries to think seriously about a subject immediately the political derby between right and left, fake right and fake left, so one becomes pro-taxists, a pro-Uber and a pro-NCC, when in reality one has to act only pro-citizens. What do I mean by pro-citizens? With regard to the taxi service - as you know - there was some controversy a few months ago about the inclusion of the amendment Lanzillotta within the so-called thousandprorogues decree. Taxi service is a public service, of a compulsory nature. What does public service mean? It means that those who carry out that activity must carry out it twenty-four hours a day, three hundred sixty-five days a year, of course with special shifts. This means that that service must be guaranteed, compulsory and no taxi driver can refuse a race, for example because it is too short: that is what we have to say. When we start with liberalisation, which everyone, even the most liberal, has seen in some respects dangerous, what can be achieved? You get that a service, which was previously guaranteed for everyone every day and at all hours, including holidays, becomes a guaranteed service only when profitable. This is what has happened in so many areas where liberalisation has led to a cartel of a few companies that have decided how to do that service. The taxi service today has rates set by the municipalities and, therefore, equal for everyone; tomorrow it could become like Uber now, a service that changes if there is a strike, if it snows or rains. You change and you increase prices because so much everyone can only turn to that service when it is most profitable. That's why the concept of public service - I would like to get there, letting the taxi issue go for a moment - is gradually getting distorted. It's already happened with the mail. Liberalizing that market was thought of as a competition. In fact, we always have the Italian Post company that carries out a service under monopoly conditions, but it is free to do what it wants, it has become more a bank than a real postal service, and therefore, it closes some postal services in the suburbs, in the countryside or in the mountains because they are not profitable and because it does not have to guarantee a service. The same applies to rail transport: on the most profitable routes such as Milan-Rome we have a superfast train every ten minutes, but our commuters always travel on trains that are disgusting, delayed or suppressed. This is Italian liberalisation. That is why we must be very careful and avoid that technological services, which should be a real tool for public services, become an alternative to public service, which as a public has little and becomes a service of a private nature, as Uber is doing all over the world. [[Applause from the M5S Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-815.ana.u94	She is registered to speak Senator Fasiolo. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-815.ana.u95	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the measure on competition, which has come to this House through a complex and long parliamentary process, as many have pointed out, is the result of a work - I agree with what the rapporteur, Mr Tomaselli, pointed out in his report - carried out in excellent synergy by the Government, the Commission, parliamentary groups and various speakers at the hearing, which all helped to deepen the content and achieve shared solutions. The main objective of the bill is to stimulate economic growth and raise the level of competition in some sectors, to make internal market regulation functional, which is still too much linked to reference models of the past. Competition in certain sectors, such as transport, credit and insurance, professions and services, construction, electricity, gas and water, tourist activities, clashes with the presence of numerous barriers, such as obsolete regulations that inhibit the free initiative and the spread of goods and services for citizens and businesses, and lead to additional costs that are avoidable for consumers and insufficient to meet the needs of the productive fabric and an increasingly globalised market. The strong limits to the expansion of the practice of competition, restrained by bureaucratic conditioning too heavy, have already caused damage to our economic fabric: this is evident - I wanted to emphasize this aspect - especially in the border areas, where companies increasingly relocate and consumers turn to neighbouring countries, where they find answers to their needs for products and services much more convenient especially in terms of cost. The Competition and Market Authority itself points out that the barriers placed at the entry into certain business sectors require economic contexts facilitating, structural interventions that make the market attractive, a greater deburocratization, as I have emphasized amply, that allows to create a generative fabric of reception also to foreign investments, instead of producing closures or the increasing flight of Italian companies. The undersigned, at the end of October last year, presented the bill n. 2584, aimed precisely at the establishment of an ZES (special economic area) in the territorial areas of the Friuli-Venezia Giulia Region bordering Austria and Slovenia in order to allow an economic revival for those areas that more than others suffer from the repercussions of competition, on the one hand, from another Community country but, on the other hand, strongly localistic, as linked to a contermine territory that allows the end user to easily access the much more advantageous offer of the neighbouring country. It is clear that having as a driver a state with a very low tax, a leaner bureaucracy and a lower cost of life and energy than those of our country, inevitably entails a whole series of difficulties for Italian companies, starting from the costs of energy supply in the production process, passing through the cost of labour and transport, to quote two elements that fall inexorably on the final cost of each product. There are examples of these disparities, but they all contain a clear message: our country must be on par with others and quickly! Well, then, the fact that this bill, which remained in the Commission for a long time, has now seen the light of day. In recent months we have witnessed the mobilization by the streetwalkers, who have protested against Bolkestein, and we have lived with discomfort the week of taxi strike. Workers seem to be absolutely opposed to liberalisation of the market. However, I would like to point out, as I have often been told outside this House, that in order to grow and expand our businesses, our companies and private individuals need regulation that is more open to change. The globalised world will certainly not wait for Italy to catch up, as we have seen from the growth of recent years. The globalized world runs, and we have to help ourselves. That is precisely what the draft law aims to achieve: I have here a list of the most important novelties which I request permission to attach to the Minutes of today's sitting. I stress that measures are introduced, through a delegation to the Government, concerning the so-called smart city to encourage the development of smart cities and sustainable mobility; the delegation calls for the progressive extension of the use of electronic devices, the extension of information on services in cities and the protection of security obtained through the electronic device, the regulation of the portability of devices, the definition of the test value in the administrative procedures of the devices themselves and the identification of an effective protection of privacy. I conclude by welcoming very much this measure that has all the cards in order to allow Italy to achieve a good level of liberalisation and to give answers to a large part of the problems related to the competitiveness of our country, since competition policy is an indispensable lever to ensure recovery and economic growth. [[Applause from Senator Puppato]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-815.ana.u96	The Presidency shall authorise you to attach the remainder of your speech.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-815.ana.u97	Senator Council is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-815.ana.u98	Mr President, Mr Antonio Gentile, undersecretary for economic development, spoke on the draft law before us, and Prime Minister Gentiloni Silveri echoed it, and both of them asked, not in a very kind way, for swift approval of the measure. We think it is our duty and we can ask - as other Members have already done - for a very rapid transition to the Commission so that we have the opportunity to settle certain aspects which, even in the maxi amendment, have become apparent as not exactly correct. The debate lasted two years, we lost track of the hearings, and it was about nine months since it was approved in 10a. Commission: perhaps the measure is now mature or perhaps, Mr President, it is not at all. Then you'll make it ripen like bananas in the trust cell. The League Group has worked a lot on articles 1 to 15 relating to insurance. The theme that has been discussed in these articles, the RC cars, is of great interest to us and we have dedicated a good part of our work to it. This was a work aimed at restoring a balance between the different positions represented in the sector: insurance companies, repair companies, experts and insured persons. We are talking about a sector which is still too closed to competition and which is subject to the interests of insurance companies. Articles 18 to 24 shall apply to the telecommunications sector. The amendments referred to them are aimed at ensuring that consumers can join, among the different offers of operators, those that best meet their needs and habits of consumption. The costs of energy in Italy, which are the highest in Europe and certainly have not facilitated competition, have been discussed for a long time and represent one of the main disadvantages for our companies vis-à-vis other European and non-European competitors. In our view, the measures taken by the Government do not appear to be incisive in the objective of making the sector more open to competition and, therefore, in contributing to the cost reduction of energy bills charged to users. There has also been talk of banks and this House has seen all sorts of them. All the amendments tabled in the area of banking services aim to increase consumer protection and protection, which, as we know, have a much smaller contractual and economic strength than banks and credit institutions. The Committee on Industry, Commerce and Tourism also considered that it would also intervene, with the submission of several amendments, on the issue of the international movement of cultural goods. The years were brought from fifty to seventy for the works subject to the control of the export offices of the Superintendences. We have examined, also from a temporal point of view, what could have been the works that could have crossed the Italian borders and we have taken as the only example those of de Chirico; the prediction would certainly have endangered our culture of being deprived of some very important works. Much has also been said about pharmacies. As they always say, no one has ever seen a pharmacist under a bridge. However, it is clear that there is probably also the inability to consider that Italy is not only made up of cities like Milan, Rome, Turin or Naples, as there are also rural pharmacies, which provide a very important service to the population, especially in terms of garrison of the territory. I would remind you that Article 47 of Law No 99 of 23 July 2009 provides for an annual measure for the market and competition. Mr President, I repeat: annually. The aim of the law is to put in place a periodic activity to remove the many obstacles and brakes that remain in the markets of products and services. This activity must be carried out on the basis of specific indications from the Competition and Market Authority. Mr President, this annual measure has little or nothing: the draft law comes to the House after two years of its presentation by the Government. It is a measure which has revealed the many contradictions of the approach that the majority have on the subject of competition. It was necessary to come to the head of the text. The majority did not always share the attitudes that emerged in the Chamber of Deputies and in the Senate Commissions. The exam unveiled the various stakeholders, especially the big lobbyists. An endless series of hearings were held, certainly necessary, but sometimes in clear divergence and above all oriented on the basis of the interests that were sought to protect. It has been said that the draft competition law has been put back on the right track. It has been said that the draft competition law was put back on the tracks, as if to say that it was abundantly derailed and therefore had lost that guideline that Law No 99 of 2009 had somehow fixed on the sleepers of these tracks. There are rules that go and come, now old, arguments dealt with in other measures and therefore a text that has already been amended by law. Something has slipped in recent months, some things have become the subject of a delegation for future legislation, which, among other things, Mr President, concerns us quite a bit. Something has been deleted and some decisions - let us say a little - are even contrary to the spirit of the law. In short, what should have been a bill that for the first time should have taken shape on the basis of the reports of the Antitrust Authority has become a text that does not have much of the original text and the amendments approved have changed its content. We basically started with ABC as far as Law No. 99 of 2009 is concerned and we have reached the last three letters of the alphabet. So, after months of parliamentary debate, we are perhaps at the end of this long process. It is true that the minority had already given holy oil to the measure, because it was thought to be covered up, but then there was an acceleration and the umpteenth question of trust will be raised. Something in all these months has escaped the Government, that is the idea that the change of the regulatory framework on the market and competition has the ultimate aim to safeguard the consumer, especially if it is vulnerable and daily forced or urged to deceptive choices. Well, the fact that the government's guideline seemed to have been influenced by industry interests and categories with powerful persuasive means or theoretical models that are not consistent with our reality immediately comes to the fore. We have sometimes felt that the draft law under consideration has a meltdown in relation to the real needs of the citizens. We have talked about the presence of barriers to competition, the lack of transparency and the recommendations of the European Commission: Europe is always being put in the middle. To be honest, the bill only intervenes with regard to some of the points reported by the Competition and Market Authority, even if these are certainly important points, such as those of the car RC, pension funds, postal services and communications issues. As far as we are concerned, perhaps things could have been done a little better, perhaps listening to the minority: as I always say, we always give exquisite advice free of charge, trying to really put us on the other side of the table - this is important - where there are citizens and consumers, where citizens sit, who are also consumers and users of services. Perhaps by sitting on the other side of the table you would have noticed that the citizen is being "squeezed" and that, notoriously, not all citizens are supertechnological: we will then explain why this statement. Sitting on the other side of the table, the abolition of the contract of greater protection, with the passage to the free market, which you would have considered a vile carrion towards the citizens, would have jumped immediately to your eye. On that chair you would have wondered how it is possible for citizens, who are increasingly in economic difficulties, to be put into psychological apprehension, especially the less technological ones. Sitting on that chair you would have experienced the drama of the ordinary citizen, who for the vast majority will not choose and will certainly be placed, most of the time completely unaware, within the auction mechanism. This also applies to other passages of the draft law under consideration: to define how liberalization of certain contraptions is a clear forgery. You are convinced Europeans, or you say that Europe commands us, as we said before. So you should know perfectly well that there is no country in Europe where rules and arrangements of this kind have been implemented. The free market already exists and the consumer can move from one supplier to another. And if he doesn't make it, it's probably because he doesn't have the ability to go on social media, as some people can do, or because, Mr President, he's fine where he is; and then why are he fucking with this good consumer? Then, on that chair, you would realize that this is a measure that makes fake liberalization, with which you are not the owner of yourself, and you have been considered a commodity; and I can assure you, Mr President, that being a commodity is not the most beautiful feeling. A draft is circulating of the maxi amendment. Either you think you can change the text for the better - and then it can also be a good thing - or you have done some retouching and think of throwing some smoke in the eyes of minorities and healthy stakeholders, who have clearly put these classrooms in a position to be against this measure. As far as energy is concerned, little is touched: the dates have been changed; on the pharmacies practically nothing, changes a few comma. I smoke, that's right. Mr President, I understand that it is difficult to draw up such a law and how complicated it is to combine the legitimate expectations of consumers, the quality of services, with the needs of producers and service providers. I have read a very short article, but very significant, on this aspect: consumers have ease in surfing the Internet to buy a good, they are very good, they have a huge ability to compare prices with equal good and they have a beautiful vocation, sometimes, to boast with friends if they have found the best price. For those who are not accustomed to these means, there is always the proven word of mouth; however, one seeks the most beneficial good to buy. When, then, you become sellers you reverse the need: you seek protection against national and international competition and you regret the Middle Ages, when the corporations protected the productive activities. When, then, we are forced to turn to the sole supplier (in this case I refer to the public administration), we cross our fingers and arm ourselves with godly patience. Then we return to consumers and go into a world to find the loophole to the rules that we wanted as producers and sellers. Mr President, I should like to end by congratulating the two rapporteurs, Senators Tomaselli and Luigi Marino, and the chairman of the Committee on Industry, Cows, who, in the rough sea of this bill, have been very well saved, even without a shipwrecked jacket. We must say, however, that we could probably have achieved more and certainly done something better; some issues could perhaps have been decorporated into the text and dealt with in an ad hoc measure once faced by the competent Commission. This is, in fact, to all intents and purposes, an interministerial bill, which covers virtually the whole of the government and which in the explanations of vote will probably see a negative attitude on our part. However, I repeat, we are asking for a very brief step in the Commission, in which the Lega Group takes responsibility for speeding up the process and not for obstructing it. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group and Senator Marino Luigi]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-815.ana.u99	Senator Gotor is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-815.ana.u100	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I am speaking on a specific aspect of the competition measure, the one concerning the export of works of art from Italy, of private origin and not subject to restrictions. In our opinion, the amendment to Article 68, tabled by Senator Andrea Marcucci, presents serious critical aspects. We want our dissent to remain in the record, with the objective of the House of Deputies being able to correct and improve what the Senate has decided on under the constraint of very probable confidence. In this regard, I would like to reiterate our complaint about the use and abuse of this instrument which has marked the entire legislature, without, as in the past, being invited to the government by the authorities responsible for exercising greater moderation and respect for Parliament's activities. These are a series of interventions made on this measure on competition that art historian Tommaso Montanari has already highlighted in some articles before the public, without these contributions causing the Government to a greater weighting for what is about to take place in a neurological field of our national interest such as that of the cultural protection of artistic goods. A first problematic aspect concerns the fact that the time limit is aligned to seventy years so that an object can be declared cultural good. To date this threshold was fifty years for private immovable things and for movable things to everyone belonging. In this way, Article 65 of the code of cultural goods is amended, under which it is forbidden to export movable objects that are no longer a living author's work and whose execution dates back over fifty years, until the verification of cultural interest has been carried out. The amendment shifts this term to seventy years, so today if a thing (a notebook, a sketch, an autograph photograph) is of dead author and is fifty years old, it cannot be exported without permission. With the amendment, to be assisted by this protection, it will have to have seventy. In fact, twenty years are given to art dealers and the public protection regimes that the State should ensure in compliance with Article 9 of the Constitution are reduced by twenty years. Secondly, it should be noted that today works that, regardless of the time of their realization (and therefore even if they are less than fifty years old), are considered particularly significant because of their reference to political, military, literature, the art of science, technology, industry and culture in general. However, following the amendment made by the new legislation, it will happen that only works of art that have been created by an artist who is no longer alive who is over seventy years old will be examined. Instead, the works that are between fifty and seventy years old, or have been made by an artist still alive, can be bound only if, as the new text says, they present an artistic, historical, archaeological or ethno-anthropological interest exceptional for the integrity and completeness of the cultural heritage of the Nation. As is well known, the devil nests in detail; in concrete a whole series of artistic works produced in the 1950s and 1960s can only be placed if it is shown that they are of exceptional interest and not simply significant. The risk is that public power will renounce or weaken its fundamental prerogative, i.e. that of subjecting private works of art to the examination of its third evaluation before they are launched for export. A third problem concerns the procedures of autocerification: below the threshold of 13,500 euros, the works - be careful self-certification by the owner - will be able to leave Italy without authorization of the Ministry (except for goods whose export is prohibited regardless of the value, such as archaeological finds). It is true that the value of less than 13,500 euros is low in itself, but it is true that the paradox lies in the notation for which it will be the person concerned himself to self-certification the estimate and the existence of the additional conditions of free movement. Moreover, it is intended to increase the validity of the certificate of free movement from three to five years. This means in fact leaving to the art dealers the freedom to estimate the works by means of a mere indication in a special computer list, without the need of their physical presentation to the offices in charge, and then hope that the checks to sample - because this the legislation previews on the self-certifications - of the Ministry find anomalies and irregularities; which very unlikely, even in the face of the decrease of the employees to this function in a section, as is known, under organic. Here, in my opinion, a serious cultural error is being committed because the free exportability of a cultural asset is linked only to a threshold of economic value, without considering the cultural exceptionality and not monetizable of the good, which is based on its historical value as an object found within a specific anthropological and cultural context, the Italian one, whose integrity should be safeguarded by the laws of the State and not sold in the name of alleged competition. This measure introduces a sort of jobs act of the works of art, in which their value, as happened with the work in case of dismissals without just cause (in this case it would be the sale of works without just cause) is only monetized with the effect of equalizing - here is the cultural leap of a centuries-old tradition of protection of cultural goods, which has characterized the history of the Italian peninsula - the works of art to any other kind of goods, denying their exceptionality and specificity. The argument used by the supporters of this measure is that it would enable it to adapt to European legislation and that of other countries. The importance does not convince because European legislation would be the Regulation of the Council of the European Union n. 116 of 2009, which concerns the export of goods from the territory of the European Union (and not from individual Member States) and which saves the ability of individual States to regulate the exit from their territories of artistic goods. Moreover, international legislation and other countries cannot be a guiding criterion for Italy, because our country has the highest concentration of historical-artistic and cultural assets in the world and cannot and must not be influenced by the legislation of countries that have much less. Historically, as I said, on the very ground of protection Italy represented an excellence and an exception, an example to be imitated and now we, taken from a sudden attack of esterophilia, would pursue the laxity of other states. Finally, if it is true, and undoubtedly so, that operators in the sector are complaining of delays in procedures, the solution is to strengthen the offices, not to lower the protections, perhaps through the establishment of a Directorate-General for the Coordination of Export Offices. I do not doubt that the large national and international auction houses are happy with this measure. In fact, it protects the professional interests of the art dealers, auction houses, professional transporters of works of art, lawyers who support them. The same cannot be said, however, of the national interests of a country (which should be prominent) and of a civil community aware of the need to protect its public and private cultural heritage, without favouring, facilitating sales abroad, with a clear speculative potential of a private character or destined to feed the collections of the great international museums. In conclusion, therefore, on this point the draft law restricts the protectionist and protective constraint thanks to the lengthening of the time limit necessary for a work to be classified as cultural good and thanks to the provision of a circulatory regime of works more free and less controlled than the one currently in force. This is contrary, in our opinion, to the provision contained in Article 9 of the Constitution, a content of which, among the main tasks of the State and the public authority, there is also the protection of the nation's historical and artistic heritage. For these reasons, I will announce that I will vote for this measure only because, as is most likely, confidence will be imposed, but I invite each of you and the House of Deputies (who will receive it) to take note of the mistake that we are making and the possibility (which is also a hope) of reviewing it, improving the text. [[Applause from the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and ……]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-815.ana.u101	Senator Giovanardi is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-815.ana.u102	Mr President, I believe that Senator Gotor has offered me the opportunity to point out precisely a gigantic paradox underlying his words, which has in Italy applications before which there is only to remain unbelieving, for this archival and artistic communism that it wants to spread. I say this to the Undersecretary, hoping that there will be something to do on this occasion too, I say this to the President of the 10th President. - I call the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats. You see, from the beginning of the Kingdom of Italy, through laws of the Italian State and binding circulars of the Ministries, tons of papers from public bodies and archives were destined to be stripped, including tens of millions of envelopes and letters that were considered of no interest. Here I have all the records of the laws of the time. These papers of the remains were sold to quintals or tons and were destined for the macero or were delivered to the Red Cross, which spread the sale to private individuals in an effective and widespread way, in order to be better able to operate in the field of charity and charity. Mr Gotor, I would like to draw your attention for a moment: Article 54 of the current code of cultural goods among the inalienable goods mentions the individual documents belonging to the State, the Regions and other territorial public authorities, as well as the archives and individual documents of different public bodies and institutions. This would be a national heritage to be protected. Then, despite the fact that, with circular, the Ministry of Cultural Heritage has clearly indicated that this rule cannot be applied to the simple envelopes with stamp, but only to those that contain some utility for the archives, if it has been denounced the subtraction, some peripheral Superintendences believe that all that - listen to what our heritage is - that in recent centuries has been addressed to Municipalities, Provinces, courts and parishes is part of the State property, moreover putting in motion criminal complaints and seizure of material, for incitement to careless purchase, against all those who are in possession of some of the tens of millions of postal documents that have been legitimately bought (parlo of material worth 2 euros, 4 euros or 10 euros) in the last one hundred and fifty years from collectors and their progenitors in the stalls, auctions, during the philatelic conferences, etc. I read the text of an agenda which unfortunately I will not be able to present; the rapporteur said he was willing to do so, but with confidence he would fall. In fact, Cosenza's Superintendence has seized 10,000 letters, with the motivation, Senator Gotor, who, being more than fifty years old, although being sent by the military to the front of the First and Second World War to their family members (between the First and Second World War they were sent from five to six billion letters and postcards, three and a half million a day), they have an historical interest. The holder has been convicted and unfortunately he has settled the sentence, so the sentence has gone to trial. These behaviors are putting into crisis a sector that saw, until yesterday, operating about twenty philatelic auction houses, more than one hundred merchants, hundreds of philatelic circles and one million collectors, for a turnover of about 200 million per year. Everyone at this time is potentially incriminable for unwise purchase or reclaim, if they do not provide proof (impossible) that the single letter addressed to a public body is part of the tens of millions discarded by law by public administrations. So, to understand us, the state with liberal law, privatizes, sells and gives to the Red Cross, for charitable activities, these tons of material. For three generations this material is bought by hundreds of thousands of people and now the state says all these are criminals. So the Carabinieri come to their house, they take the kidnappings, they get a criminal complaint, they seize a thousand letters, they take them to the Superintendences, the Carabinieri send them to the Superintendences of all Italy. To do what? To send them to rot in the basement. Look, I've got the magazine "Link" with me, which says: The disappearance of the State archives: thus Italy destroys its history. But do you know that at the Central State Archive anyone can enter, can go and see even things very reserved and maybe if you put them under your jacket and there is no control? Do you know that in the outskirts of Rome there are entire warehouses full of tens, hundreds of millions of data archived by the Treasury, lists of Moroccans during the war, lists of refugees from Istria and Dalmatia, those of the 1939 options that no one is able to control and film? In this situation, in which we cannot safeguard the indispensable, that is, the things that must be in the state archives, the hunt for tens of millions of letters has opened. This is because the superintendents, obviously, have nothing but to do in front of the Internet to check if a letter is sold on eBay that is worth 5, 10 or 15 euros, of which of course there are millions of copies, to trigger criminal sanctions. I make an appeal to the government. It's only a million people, but they care. They saved the cultural history of our country. They've written hundreds of books about this minor story. There are institutions, such as the Institute of Historical Postal Studies in Prato, which have written magnificent things about postal history. They have saved and maintained, in this country, a heritage that the State would keep in the basements to feed the mice. Because this would be the end of these tons of paper. Do we want to be reasonable? Yes, this applies to paintings. It is obvious that an exceptional picture of 50 years ago must remain in Italy. But do you think that one can imagine that the paintings of the last seventy years of modern painters, hundreds and thousands, must all have the option to go abroad? But are we talking about Europe? But are we talking about competition? But are we talking about privatization? Only in the Albania of Enver Hoxha was it forbidden to make the stamp collection. Not even in China and the Soviet Union was forbidden. And I'll sue him here. On Saturday I attended a meeting of merchants, auction houses and collectors who are distressed, because it is not nice to see the carabinieri arriving in the house following a complaint due to the fact that your grandfather bought a letter or because you may have attached to the wall memories of war that a relative of yours sent to your mother or grandmother, who are defined documents with historical value and therefore can be kidnapped. But I wonder if the seven billion letters sent by the fighters can be called historical heritage of our country, since they are more than fifty years old. Because that's what's happening. I was hoping that a small amendment would clarify that it is clear that the assets referred to in Article 54, currently held in the archives, must be in the archives. That's all I need. And for the documents stolen from the archives and whose theft has been reported, it is clear that whoever stole them must be prosecuted. But extending this principle in this crazy way to tens, perhaps hundreds of millions, of cards that the State has legitimately sold is a madness that we are witnessing and that we are denouncing. For four years we have had relations with the Ministers pro tempore explaining the situation. The Ministry of Cultural Heritage has made a circular but the individual superiors explain that this circular to them does not interest anything at all, because they believe to give them interpretation. About Senator Gotor's speech, but who is the expert who establishes the value of an almost contemporary work? A superintendent who can't tell a stamp from an envelope, and who doesn't even know what he's talking about? They are those who go to auction houses and who, before the auction, go to pick up the catalog and lose their customers saying that they must seize this or this one, such as postcards from 1950 why addressed to a municipality? But when they arrived at the municipal mayor and city secretary they would take them and throw them in the trash, and only some of them would end up in the archives. And then there were the archives. But do we want to create a country of criminals? But how far does the criminal offence of our country come? How far can the citizen be subjected to criminal proceedings and even to the withdrawal of his passport? A collector, for an envelope of 10 euros that was given to him by a friend, has been subjected to criminal proceedings. When this industrialist, six months later, had to go abroad, he was told that he could not obtain his passport because it was a criminal proceeding against him. I tell the government to go read the newspapers, La Stampa or the National Newspaper, because these facts are now public. I find it hard to explain to traders and collectors that there is a Senate and there is a Government, because these things shout vengeance before God. But will there be someone to provide? Unfortunately, I feel that there are still ideas for which private freedom does not exist and neither does private collectivism. It's all from the state. There comes an official of a peripheral superintendence, perhaps of Cosenza and, abusing his authority, takes 10,000 letters away to a private person, inventing that after fifty years he is all his own. Hers whose? The archivist? Do you know where the boxes are now? They're in the basement, and some of them don't even know where they are anymore, since they're looking for where they're going. Where do you want this stuff to go? Where do these millions of cards end up? Who has the money to file them? Every year the state spends 19 million euros just rents to keep these huge warehouses millions of cards inside. They are currently in the warehouses because no one has the resources, not even to manage the most beautiful things. As I also told the friends of Volkspartei there is all the agricultural history of 1939-1940 and the options in South Tyrol that is there, all stacked, in tens of thousands of faldons and we want to recover it. And who's gonna get it? So we're gonna run behind the single letter? Do we want to keep busy policemen, magistrates, first degree, second degree and all the archives to block a passion, a hobby, the most popular that there is and that involves millions of people? Colleagues senators, if this is the function of Parliament and the Government, other than liberalization, other than competition and other than Europe! Now I hope, Mr Undersecretary, that we will succeed (and four ministers, in words, have given us reason) in pulling a spider out of the hole and in approving a rule that will definitely clarify that whoever trusted this state and helped the Red Cross by buying this material, today does not become a criminal potential.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-815.ana.u103	Appreciate the circumstances, postpone the continuation of the discussion of the bill in title to other session.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-815.ana.u104	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-815.ana.u105	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-815.ana.u106	URAS (Mixed). Mr President, I would like to express my concern in this House about the fate of Alitalia, the flagship company, which for many years has been the flagship of our transport system, in particular the air transport system, while supporting the need for a route that is not a liquidation of this heritage of means, culture and professionalism that is expressed by the staff who have been working and doing it with great commitment for many years. The other reason is to have a guarantee, which I believe the Government should also give to Parliament, especially because of how essential air transport is today and how important air transport is for more peripheral geographical areas of our country and Europe. Therefore, pending a stable European air transport system, I think that the Government should come here to report on what guarantees it intends to put in place so that the efficiency of the current Italian air transport system is enhanced by enhancing Alitalia, its presence in the national and European market - and we also say international - and that Alitalia is considered as a heritage, to the irreplaceable State of our country. This concern for us Sardinians is a real concern and I think that the Government, also out of respect for our peoples and our community, has a duty to come and report to Parliament. Choose the Government whether in the Chamber or in the Commission.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-815.ana.u107	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-815.ana.u108	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-815.ana.u109	Mr Maturani (PD). Mr President, I would not have wished to speak again to continue with the relay with which, together with many senators and senators, we remember every woman who is killed at the hands of a man to whom she has been linked by a loving relationship. We have all said so: we will do so until we have to remind Parliament and our country of the urgency of combating violence against women. On May 1 in the center of Rome Michela Di Pompeo, an Italian teacher, was killed by the partner who hit her several times at the head with a blunt body. The man then constituted himself. As in a ritual, which we now painfully propose, this happened because the intention of the woman was to interrupt the relationship. The number of women we remember in this relay is 54, which began only on 30 June 2016. The monster, as always, is closer than we think. We must call on men to take responsibility to work with us in the education of male children to help them understand that often their behaviors, their language, their words and those of their friends are the first element of a ritual, which may appear unimportant and which can then lead to violence. Women report today. We always repeat that we must invite women to report. In our country there are important laws and also at the forefront of many European countries. We have always said that laws are not enough, even if - I am convinced - they make culture. In this case we have to say that women often complain and that, unfortunately, very often also complaints fail to receive the attention and support that public administration bodies should give. The actions that Parliament and the Government, with the work of the Undersecretary with the delegation to equal opportunities, are putting in place with effectiveness and commitment, are very important, of course, we repeat. It is very important that the steering booth is able to constantly monitor the merits and limitations of the rules and, above all, that we continue to give full and accurate implementation to the anti-violence plan. However, we also call on the media to help us and in their important work stop justifying, even in the wrong language, the murderers and to blame women. It is an appeal that we continue to address every time with great pain we are called to intervene in this Assembly to the country, to women and to men in a particular way. More than 120 women were killed in 2016. We can no longer accept this massacre. We repeat this important appeal to men to a visible commitment to them, especially to those men who, in the everyday life of their lives and their public and private relations, claim that they would never touch a woman even with a flower: make yourselves visible. Take part in the battle we're conducting. Help other men to understand that what happens is the sign of the great civilization of our country. We women are ready to welcome their cooperation and help. [[Applause from Senator Gatti.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-815.ana.u110	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-815.ana.u111	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-815.ana.u112	WOMAN (M5S). Mr President, a few days ago I brought to the attention of this House the affair linked to the budget and the TARI financial plan of the Municipality of Lizzanello, in the province of Lecce, an affair that is always generating new anomalies. Last April 29th there was a meeting of the City Council, at which, as a citizen, I also attended. On the advice of our Councillor Antonio Parlangeli, however, we know that - according to what has been reported to him this morning in the Commune - the Council minutes could contain information not corresponding to the truth and relating to the discussion of the first item on the agenda concerning the statement. Now, at this point, it's good to know the truth. In that sitting, minority members did not take part in any of the items on the agenda at all; indeed, after the statements by the President of the City Council, they made statements concerning the latest developments in the TARI problem, including the text of my press release and the publication of my question on this subject. So there has never been a debate on any item on the agenda. These possible attempts to subvert reality give us much to think about, because it means that we want to conceal the actual conduct of the municipal council meetings and what is really said during these sessions. At this point we look forward to reading the minutes of the City Council of Lizzanello of 29 April and all related acts, including resolutions. I know: the Giunta Pedone did not imagine that having the 5 Stars in the minority could be so complicated, but it is good that they get used to it because the beauty has yet to begin. Citizens cannot pay with stratospheric garbage bills the administrative errors. However, we will continue and we are at the side of the citizens of the Municipality of Lizzanello and Merine. [[Applause from Senator Scibona.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-815.ana.u113	The motions, questions and questions received by the Presidency will be published in Annex B to today's report.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-815.ana.u114	The Senate will meet again in public session tomorrow, Wednesday, May 3, at 9.30 a.m., with the following agenda: (See agenda) The sitting was closed at 19.53.
