ParlaMint-IT_2017-06-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-844.ana.u1	The sitting was opened at 16.31 a.m. The Minutes shall be read. Mr Volpoli, Secretary, read the Minutes of the afternoon sitting of the previous day.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-06-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-844.ana.u2	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-06-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-844.ana.u3	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-06-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-844.ana.u4	MALAN (FI-PdL XVII). Mr President, I would like to ask for the vote on the Minutes, subject to a quorum check. Verification of quorum
ParlaMint-IT_2017-06-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-844.ana.u5	I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators, by electronic procedure. (The request is supported). I therefore call on the senators to make their presence known by electronic means. (Follows the quorum check.) The Senate has a quorum. Resumption of the debate on the Minutes I put the Minutes to the vote. It's approved.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-06-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-844.ana.u6	The list of senators on leave and absent on assignment received from the Senate, as well as further communications to the Assembly, will be published in Annex B to today's Minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-06-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-844.ana.u7	I would warn you that qualified votes can be taken in the course of today's sitting by electronic means. Therefore, from this moment the period of 20 minutes from the notice provided for in Article 119, paragraph 1, of the Regulation (at 16,38 hours) begins.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-06-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-844.ana.u8	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-06-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-844.ana.u9	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-06-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-844.ana.u10	Corsini (Art.1-MDP). Mr President, first of all, thank you for your sensitivity. Yesterday the Court of Cassation confirmed the conviction against Carlo Maria Maggi and Maurizio Tramonte, recognizing them guilty of the heinous massacre consumed in piazza della Loggia, in my city, May 28, 1974, forty-three years ago. I take the floor with some emotion because I think that, at last, friends and companions who have died victims of the massacre of the piazza della Loggia can rest in peace. I speak of friends and companions because I had a direct and personal association with many of them. Friends and comrades, because I don't use the word comrade like a blunt clave, but I think it says about a story and a biography. For me, this sentence is also a sort of liberation. As mayor of the city I have experienced all the suffering of a very painful lack of truth and I feel first of all to bring my solidarity to our colleague, Mr Alfredo Bazoli, whose mother has fallen into the piazza della Loggia. What considerations can be drawn from this? Forty-three years have passed and only after a story made up of reluctances, omissions, misconceptions and lies, finally we witness an effective overlap between the historical truth, which was now acquired, and the judicial truth. In 1994 I invited one of the good teachers of Italian political thought, Norberto Bobbio, to develop a reflection on the theme of memory. Well, on that extraordinary occasion the philosopher theorized a very close relationship between truth and justice: at last we have justice because we have truth and we have truth because we have justice. This truth tells of a perverse interweaving and a conspiracy promoted by subjects and movements that refer to radicalism of the extreme and unconstitutional right and to sectors and apparatus of the state absolutely unfaithful to the Constitution. But this history also documents and testifies to a commitment made by men of the institutions, magistrates, political leaders, representatives of public life, family members and associates of the victims, men and women of civil society who have not resigned themselves to the lie and to an unbearable lack of truth. Finally: this judgment certainly constitutes a point of arrival in many ways liberating, but it can also constitute a starting point for further developments in the search for the responsibilities of senders and those who have ordained the barbaric massacre, which is still ongoing. Our wish is therefore that the truth may be fully and definitively acquired and triumph. [[Applause from the groups Art.1-MDP, PD and Misto-SI-SEL.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-06-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-844.ana.u11	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-06-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-844.ana.u12	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-06-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-844.ana.u13	CERVELLINI (Misto-SI-SEL). Mr President, first of all I would like to address the victims of the massacre in Piazza della Loggia and their families, particularly Manlio Milani, leader of the Association of Victims, whose wife was killed in the explosion. Many of the things supported by Senator Paolo Corsini, which I share, allow me to dwell on some aspects that cannot be silenced, because there has been an extraordinary element of civil tenacity on the part of the democratic forces and family members of the victims, who have been able to go against everything that the world could appear and, above all, the Italian State in its most delicate bodies (armed bodies and services). Even at terrible times, conditions have not failed to arrive definitively at the sentence and sentence, of course only two guilty people in life. However, this indicates to us the commitment that seems to me to be our responsibility, starting with the sentence. Yes, because the sentence of conviction on appeal took place not when generals of the Carabinieri's weapon turned out to be absolutely collusion with subversive organizations aimed at striking the institutions and associations of democracy, the left-wing parties, the trade union movement. No. A few years ago, before the judgment of conviction against which the appeal was lodged, it was not possible to take any protective measures. I speak even of the most trivial ones, such as the ban on expatriation and the withdrawal of the passport; so much so that a few hours ago one of the two sentenced to life imprisonment, Maurizio Tramonte, was arrested in Portugal at Fatima. This leaves us with a responsibility that I do not want to think as in those years, with the doubleness and servitude of the state apparatuses to illegal, clandestine and, eversive organizations; but it certainly tells us that we must do what has not been done and that there is everything to be done. The chain must be interrupted, the one that, a few hours after the massacre, gave the command of the fire department to clean the square with hydraulic pumps, in order to no longer have the possibility of clues of any kind, even before the judiciary intervened. That, I believe, really, if we want to honour the victims and the family of all the many, too many victims of the terrible massacres that have dotted those years, we must commit ourselves in a scientific and rigorous way to ensure that no violent action can happen against any social and association that can promote activities and demonstrations, but above all that it can never happen again that the major summits of our State are not only collusion, but are directly and, knowingly, part of organizations and conspiracy, even putting at the service of their forces, paid by the State. Yes, because Maurizio Tramonte was a payroll informant for our Services. Well, I think we must say "never again" in a non rhetorical way, with the commitment of today and for the future. [[Applause from the Mixed-SI-SEL and Art.1-MDP Groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-06-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-844.ana.u14	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-06-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-844.ana.u15	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-06-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-844.ana.u16	VALDINOSE (PD). Mr President, it is very important today to give news and comment on the judgment of the Court of Cassation that yesterday confirmed the sentence of life imprisonment for two of the persons responsible for the massacre in piazza della Loggia in Brescia, thus confirming the convictions issued in the second appeal trial of 22 July 2015 against Carlo Maria Maggi, at the time head of New Order in Veneto, and Maurizio Tramonte, enrolled in 1973 on the payroll of the Secret Services of the State. Two life sentences, with one of the convicted already on the run yesterday, but fortunately secured by the law enforcement agencies to justice and prison. I would like to recall what happened that distant morning of 28 May 1974 in Piazza della Loggia in Brescia: there were many citizens gathered for an anti-fascist demonstration, a peaceful demonstration organized by the unions and the Anti-fascist Committee to protest against the neo-fascist violence that in those days and months was affecting the country. A bomb hidden in a basket, exploded while the demonstration was underway, caused the death of eight people and the injury of another one hundred and two. In that same square, it must be remembered, on April 25, 1969 the tombstone dedicated to the partisans who had sacrificed their lives in the fight against Nazifascism and for the liberation of our country was blown. On that same 25 April, dedicated to celebrate the resistance and liberation of Italy, the headquarters of the National Association of Partisans was also devastated in Brescia. In 1969 there were well one hundred and forty-five bomb attacks in Italy, largely neo-fascist. It was a tragic year, which culminated on December 12, 1969 with the massacre of Piazza Fontana in Milan, which caused the death of sixteen people and the injury of eighty-four others. Thus began a dark period for our Republic. More than a decade of violence and terror: from Piazza Fontana to the massacre of Peteano on May 31, 1972, then the massacre of the Italicus train on August 4, 1974, with twelve dead and forty-four wounded, to the massacre of the Bologna station on August 2, 1980 with eighty-five deaths and two hundred wounded. A long trail of blood and terror, with hundreds dead and wounded, for which, until yesterday, there were no guilty, many, too many, unpunished massacres. Now, the sentence finally gives us an official and definitive judicial truth and with it the confirmation of a truth now proclaimed on the historical level. The massacre and its motive are fully inscribed within a larger and more subversive design, that of the strategy of tension, which has conditioned for more than a decade the life of our Republic and with it our life. An extraordinarily important judgment, therefore, because it is the first attempt to be legally qualified as a political massacre and the peculiar context in which it was carried out does not leave open to doubts about the connotation and matrix, as it is written in the judgment of the court of appeal now confirmed in Cassation. The judgment clarifies, therefore, irrevocablely that the attack in Piazza della Loggia has matured in the same environment as the other massacres that characterized the bomb season between 1969 and 1980. The identification of the two leaders is emblematic of the serious and tragic union between the subversive right and deviant pieces of state apparatus. On the other hand, after five instructors and 13 debates, after acquittals and acquittals, the long process bears a trace, as it is written in the judgment, of the underground work carried out with pervicacy by a coacervo of forces identifiable in a part of the state's security apparatus, in the occult power stations, from the American services to the P2, which first encouraged and supported the development of subversive projects of the extreme right and then misled the intervention of the judiciary, in fact making the reconstruction of the entire network of responsibilities impossible. In a reflection on those years, Aldo Moro entrusted to his Memorial these words: the so-called strategy of tension had the purpose, although fortunately it did not achieve its objective, to put Italy back on the tracks of "normality " after the events of 1968 and of the hot autumn. In the end, it is necessary to reveal that Aldo Moro's strategy of tension continues in the memorial and was a period of authentic and high danger, with the risk of a constitutional deviation that the vigilance of the popular masses did not allow. It was, as we know, a question of subversive drives united by the objective of hindering the advance of innovative forces, both in the political and in the social sphere. The seventies were characterized by a great civil participation and were also a season of reforms very important for our country. But those years were also, indeed, stained by the innocent blood of the victims of the massacres. A long trail of terror and blood, a story that must be taught to young people; most of them do not know in fact the tragic events that characterized the history of our country in the seventies, with the massacre of fascist matrix. This is also why it is extraordinarily important to identify the responsibilities and the confirmation judgment of the Court of Cassation: a historic judgment, President, ladies and gentlemen, because it is the first time and the only (unbelievable that this is the case) that two responsible for a political massacre are condemned. Along with the satisfaction for this sentence, certainly, remains the bitterness and a great regret for a verdict that comes after forty-three years, very late, too late to give the right punishment to the others responsible for that massacre, because by now there are no more. Finally, I would like to express a feeling of closeness and thanks to all those who, magistrates, investigators, institutions and citizens, have made it possible to reach this judgment. In particular, on behalf of the Group of the Democratic Party, I would like to express my sincere thanks to the Association of Victims' Family, which has never given up and which has tirelessly, in these long decades, called for truth and justice. Truth and justice that we now finally have, at least for the massacre of the piazza della Loggia, and that were primarily due to the innocent victims, to their families, to the city of Brescia and, with it, to the whole of our country. [[Applause from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-06-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-844.ana.u17	The next item is the continuation of the debate on draft law Nos. 2134, already approved by the Chamber of Deputies in a text resulting from the unification of the draft own-initiative law of Gadda and others; Garavini and others; Old and others; Bindi and others; Bindi and others; Formisano and a bill of popular initiative, 456, 799, 1180, 1210, 1225, 1366, 1431, 1687, 1690, 1957, 2060 and 2089. I would remind you that during yesterday's afternoon sitting the rapporteurs carried out the oral report.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-06-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-844.ana.u18	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to make a reference for a preliminary ruling on constitutionality and a suspensive question of the same content. I would like to ask you a moment of attention, because this is an issue that we have raised, although we have not tabled any amendments to the Commission, nor have we obstructed or carried out any other activity to delay the adoption of the bill in our examination, because there has been a serious vulnus in the process of examining this measure which calls into question the seriousness of our Parliament in dealing with the mafia problems. At its meeting on 13 June last, following a debate on the failure by the 5th Commission to express its opinion on the measure in title, in which the President, the Government representative and some of the Senators from the various Groups spoke, the same Commission, on a proposal from the co-rapporteur, decided by a majority to postpone the conferral of the mandate to the rapporteurs to the next meeting. At the same sitting, as was the case at a previous meeting on 1 June, the President of the Commission reiterated: The Commission has the possibility to give the term of office to the rapporteurs, even in the absence of the opinion of the Budgetary Commission, since the terms of reference for the expression of the same are largely due to expire. Since the Commission unanimously agreed at its meeting on 1 June 2017 to postpone the submission of the mandate to the rapporteurs to the session convened before the beginning of the afternoon session of the Assembly on Tuesday 13 June, on the assumption that the opinion of the 5th Commission would be received in the meantime, it is necessary to determine what the Commission's determination is if the above-mentioned opinion does not arrive today. In this respect, it referred the matter to the Commission's members. The representative of the Government, Undersecretary Migliore, said that Deputy Minister Morando would report to the President of the Budget Commission on the need to define only a few technical aspects, pointing out that the General Accounting of the State would send, on the same day, a new, favourable report on the technical report submitted by the Ministry of Justice, in order to allow the Budget Commission to examine and finally approve the opinion. On this point, procedural and substantive doubts were raised by several parties, recognizing the need to condition the conferral of the mandate to the rapporteurs on the prior acquisition of the opinion of the Budget Commission, in order to avoid that the text could present significant elements of criticality with respect to the budgetary constraint referred to in Article 81 of the Constitution. To this end, it is also necessary to draw attention to the unique story of the presentation, on Monday 12 June, of two amendments by the rapporteurs, concerning financial cover rules, which were then withdrawn in the evening by the rapporteurs themselves. At its meeting on 14 June, the President took into account the opinion of the Budget Committee, which was not precluded by conditions on the text approved by the Chamber of Deputies, and partly non-obstacle and partly contrary to Rule 81 on the amendments approved by the Commission, noting the desirability of making amendments to the text approved by the Commission, in order to transpose the conditions imposed by the Budget Commission, through the presentation by the rapporteurs of coordinating proposals (18.Coord.100, 18.Coord.200, 19.Coord.100, 25.Coord.100, 25.Coord.200, 28.Coord.100, 29.Coord.100 and 33.Coord.100) pursuant to Rule 103 of the Rules of Procedure. The Commission therefore gave the rapporteurs a mandate to report favourably on draft law No 2134, with the amendments made to it during the examination, also authorising them to make the abovementioned coordination amendments and to request the oral report to be carried out. As we noted in the Commission, the conditions laid down in the opinion of the Budget Commission could not have been transposed by means of proposals for coordination under Rule 103 of the Rules of Procedure, as they have a substantial impact on the text adopted by the Justice Commission at that time. In accordance with the general principles governing the legislative procedure, the rapporteurs, in order to transpose the above conditions, should have tabled further amendments to which, therefore, a deadline for submission of sub-amendments should have been set. It should also be noted that, since this is a complex and long-term measure, it would have been preferable, as proposed by me, to vote on the transfer of the mandate to the rapporteurs without transposing the financial conditions imposed by the Budget Commission, postponing their transposition to the House at the time of the debate. For the reasons set out above, this modus progresse clearly violates the basic principles of the legislative procedure, which exposes the new text of the anti-mafia code to the risk of declaring constitutional illegitimacy, thereby weakening the legality, democracy and legitimacy of the deliberations. Madam Minister, I must not stress that, as a mafia, I would not like to give the lawyers of the Mafia trials an argument for the blocking of the rules that we are going to approve; I would not like to give the lawyers of the Mafia trials the possibility of constitutionally objecting, because, if I were still magistrate, I would accept the constitutional exceptions, taking into account the decisions already received in other proceedings of the Constitutional Court. For the same reasons, it seems difficult to frame the changes voted on at the sitting on 14 June in a coordination work, in which some of them have substantial profiles, such as the proposal for coordination 25. Coord.100, covering the costs of carrying out the tasks assigned to the National Agency for the Administration and Use of property seized and confiscated from organised crime. With reference to the coordinating proposal 25. Coord.200, I would like to draw attention to the provisions on staffing of the National Agency for the Administration and Destination of property seized and confiscated from organised crime, as set out in Article 113-a, introduced by Article 27 of the draft law, which should be attributed to the Agency on the basis of the principle of mobility, which is beyond the principle of efficiency of the Agency in which only highly qualified staff should be incardinated. It should also be noted that the proposal for coordination 29. Coord.100 does not have the requirements of a mere coordination of form, but of real substantial modification, which can be seen from the introductory phrase indicating a replacement of Article 29 (now Article 32), which delegates to the Government for the protection of work in the context of the seized and confiscated companies. Mr President, in the question of the preliminary ruling and the suspensive question, the problem of the difficult solution of the dual competence between the district attorney and the district attorney is also mentioned. I hope - and I would draw your attention here, Mr President, and the whole House - that serious consideration will be given to what I have just said, because instead of proceeding in terms of muscle forces, deciding whether or not to reject the question referred for a preliminary ruling, perhaps it would be appropriate to consider whether the measure should be brought back to the Commission for a few days, so that the rapporteurs will retable those coordination amendments as formal amendments: as far as we are concerned, we will be given a deadline for sub-amendments, but we will not present them. What interests us is that there is not a vulnus in the approval of the law under consideration, which allows the defenders of the mafias to raise issues that can block the whole operation of the law. For this reason, regardless of the vote on the question referred for a preliminary ruling, I hope that the return to the Commission will heal this vulnus in order to proceed correctly. [[Applause from Senator Rizzotti.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-06-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-844.ana.u19	Pursuant to Rule 93 of the Rules of Procedure, a single discussion will take place on the questions referred for a preliminary ruling and will take place in which one representative per Group may speak for no more than ten minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-06-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-844.ana.u20	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-06-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-844.ana.u21	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-06-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-844.ana.u22	FALANGA (ALA-SCLP). Mr President, there are two issues at the moment, both raised by Senator Caliendo: one concerns an assessment of opportunities, which I obviously leave to each of us; the other is more technical and concerns the preliminary question of unconstitutionality. Mr President, I must say that not all the measures, even constitutional ones, deserve our appreciation. The measure under consideration, on the substance - we shall say it in an acute, strong and determined manner - cannot have our appreciation, so, consequently, there will be a vote in line with this consideration. The subject of the preliminary ruling, however, is an exquisitely technical subject. There is a doubt of constitutionality about a violation of Article 77 of the Constitution or the regular legislative process of the measure we are examining. Senator Caliendo is a fine jurist and I am not certain to be able to assume the authority to give him suggestions or indications, but I submissively point out to him two judgments of the Constitutional Court: Judgment No 9 of 1959 and the other, much more recent, No 262 of 1998. In essence, what did the Court say in both judgments and what reasoning did it make? I summarize for the non-experts: although there has been a defect in the procedure and in the legislative process leading to the adoption of a law, it does not concern the competence of the Constitutional Court the possible importance of unconstitutionality, as the Chambers and the Parliament has devolved every judgment and every remedy against any errors of procedure. Senator Caliendo says that two proposals for coordination have been tabled, which can also be said to be amendments, by the rapporteurs, for which a deadline should be given in the Commission for possible sub-amendments. The case, such as this, was examined by the Constitutional Court precisely by judgment No 262 of 1998. In that affair which the Consultative Committee examined, it was a question of two amendments by the rapporteurs, namely two proposals for the rapporteur's coordination, which extended the scope of the target groups of articles 609d and gig (it was mentioned that minors were corrupted and group sexual violence). These proposals for coordination were not formal, but substantial, because they affected the scope of the rule. In that case, too, the Constitutional Court reiterated the principle it had already expressed in 1959 that, although there is a breach in the legislative process, in the course of Parliament's proceedings, this irregularity cannot be resolved by the Constitutional Court. Having said that, it is clear that the issue of unconstitutionality is not and cannot be, and we cannot yet disturb the Constitutional Court to discuss an issue that has already been discussed remotely in 1959 and more recently in 1998. That being said, the question remains of whether the measure should be referred back to the Commission. What can I say about that? As far as I am concerned, the measure is so wrong in everything that, in my opinion, even if we go back to the Commission, there can be no remedies that can make this a product acceptable to us, to the Italians and to the lawyers. Simply consider that prevention measures are also extended to crimes against the public administration. I take a trivial example: for a particular use, that is to say for improperly using the machine by an administrator, there may be the application of preventive measures, that is to say you must withdraw in the evening within a certain hour and you can confiscate your assets. Gentlemen, this is a product that offends all legal practitioners. I refuse to think that there may be a magistrate who will have to apply such a measure, because it is required by law by such a rule. I think that the lawmakers themselves, the magistrates themselves, will find it difficult to make measures that go in this direction and that - alas - they will be forced to do, because there is a rule that imposes on them. I do not want this rule to go through the scrutiny of this Parliament and this House. Turning - and I shall finish, Mr President - to the question of unconstitutionality, that is another, exquisitely technical issue. I have said and I repeat that not everything that is constitutional is good and good. This is constitutional, but it's not good. [[Applause from the ALA-SCCLP Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-06-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-844.ana.u23	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-06-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-844.ana.u24	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-06-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-844.ana.u25	PALMA (FI-PdL XVII). Mr President, I am speaking on the order of business. If you will allow me, Mr President, I would like to congratulate Senator Falanga, who shows an iron memory. [[Senator Falanga's comments.]] Don't panic, Senator Falanga, be quiet. In the light of Senator Caliendo's oral presentation of the suspensive and preliminary questions, he recalled two judgments of the Constitutional Court; and I can only welcome this. Unfortunately, he forgets the third, the one that sanctioned the unconstitutionality of the so-called Giovanardi law, precisely because the legislative procedure had been violated with reference to the homogeneity of the matter on a decree-law. Having said that, which allows me only once again to congratulate Senator Falanga, I come to the substance of the matter, that is to say to the order of business, Mr President. I believe that the issues raised by Senator Caliendo are very serious and technically not easy to read. They concern a measure, the anti-mafia code, which, beyond previous activity, I am particularly bound, because I had the honour of signing it as Minister of Justice. The interest that Senator Caliendo, me and the Forza Italia Group have is to move forward with a measure that is not in any way attackable in court, evidently with reference to the Constitutional Court. In other words, I would like to establish, not with the emotion and speed of bureaucratic practice, whether there has actually been or has not been a breach of the legislative procedure. I am well aware that there are five precedents which would allow for this formal coordination, but I also say that, in view of the comments and conditions normally laid down by the Budget Commission, there are probably few precedents to identify a practice. So, Mr President, I believe that there is a need for a moment of reflection, i.e. basically to go to the vote on this issue, allowing all of us to study, for those who want to do so, the merit, so that we can determine ourselves in the best possible way. It would not be a waste of time, Mr President, because, if we were ever wrong about this, we would be wrong about two segments, indeed one article, 32 and another segment, which specifically concern the agency for confiscated property. An instrument, that is, which is trying to strengthen precisely to make the patrimonial contrast with organised crime more effective and effective. It is not, therefore, a obstructive reason, but a reason for prudence, all in relation to the importance of the measure. I do not believe, Mr President, that voting on this issue today, or voting on it at the start of work on Tuesday, is a strong failure on the part of the majority or a victory of the opposition. I think that's just the way of common sense. You see, Mr President, that I do not touch, unlike what the eminent jurist Senator Falanga has done, on the substance of the matter: I do not care to see whether certain solutions adopted in this regard are correct or not. I could say, perhaps making the most striking example, that an ad hoc discipline is established for the court of Trapani and for the court of Santa Maria Capua Vetere, evidently imagining that they are the reference places of organized crime, but one forgets, for example, that the Casalesi and the clan of the Moccia refer to the territory of Naples North and not of Santa Maria Capua Vetere and that Matteo Messina Denaro, referring to Castelvetrano, refers to the court of Marsala and not to the court of Trapani. But I do not want to say that, Mr President, because I do not care: I am simply interested in the House giving a conscious vote on the problem raised and giving it very seriously and with great serenity and not to deal quickly with a matter the day before each of us has to go to the territories to campaign for election. Mr President, as far as the order of business is concerned, I would therefore ask you and the House to decide on a small interval so that the vote can take place on Tuesday when the work is resumed, a vote which everyone will give as best he sees fit, but which is a vote in which each of us has had the opportunity to know and consequently to assume its responsibilities consciously and not unconsciously. [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-06-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-844.ana.u26	Excuse me, Senator Palma, if I understood correctly, the Forza Italia Group has presented a suspensive issue and now you are asking for a postponement of it, essentially a suspension of the suspensive. Is it not easier to withdraw the suspensive issue? Otherwise, I cannot understand what the reflection should be about. [[Comments of Senator Palma]] I try to understand what you are asking from the point of view of the procedure for the suspensive matter.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-06-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-844.ana.u27	Mr President, what I am really asking for is something different. I would ask that we move on to what is provided for in the Rules of Procedure, that is to say to the statements by one speaker per group on the question raised by Senator Caliendo, not in the immediacy, but on Tuesday next week, if it is Tuesday that we will have to meet. After that, each of us, melius re perpensa, will vote or not. I do not call for a suspension at all, but for a postponement of the debate on this matter.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-06-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-844.ana.u28	I understand, but Senator Falanga has already spoken, so the debate on the suspensive issue has already begun. I see that Senator D'Ascola points out that he wants to speak on these issues, and we will then vote, if the House agrees, on the postponement that you have requested. For the time being, therefore, we shall conclude the debate, and then, if necessary, before we vote on the suspensive issue, we shall submit your request to the House.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-06-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-844.ana.u29	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-06-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-844.ana.u30	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-06-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-844.ana.u31	D'ASCOLA (AP-CpE-NCD). Mr President, on the basis of the question referred for a preliminary ruling. Let me, of course, with the utmost respect, define the manifestly unfounded issue. Not that the suspensive question is not, but in this case the unfoundedness is evident, because of the judgments of the Constitutional Court already cited by Senator Falanga, who affirm a principle in a very clear way since 1959, namely that the interpretation and application of the parliamentary regulations escape any constitutional control. To put it this way, using a language of constitutional law, it is not a question of interposed rules. On this point it is therefore useless to intervene further, except to point out that one does not understand the role of Article 77 of the Constitution, according to which the Government cannot issue acts having the value of law except by virtue of a delegation which is conferred on it, by general principles and criteria, by Parliament. As this is a matter of application and interpretation of the parliamentary regulations, we are therefore completely out of the delegation that Parliament confers on the Government to issue acts of legal value. I come to the question of suspensiveness and to the many questions that revolve around you. In this case, we are basically complaining that the conditions imposed by the 5th Commission, pursuant to Article 81 of our Constitution, have been transposed under Rule 103 of our Rules of Procedure, and therefore with amendments individually voted by the Commission, and that, on the contrary, a time limit has not been granted to subjugate the conditions imposed by the 5th Commission. The question that I will deal with in many respects essentially coincides with the affirmation of a principle: the fact that the conditions imposed by the 5th Commission are essentially comparable to amendments and as such subeminable. That would be a principle which, of course, cannot be stated for the obvious reason that these are not amendments, but conditions, which must above all be transposed according to a process of constitutionality of the draft law. The paradox lies precisely in the fact that it raised a question of constitutional legitimacy with reference to the transposition of conditions which, on the contrary, make constitutionally consistent that process of legislative activity. It is not a coincidence - and I quote the language of parliamentary practice, which means the source of parliamentary law - that the amendments or proposals for coordination (because in this case the difference is only nominalistic) which transpose the conditions imposed by the 5th Commission are defined as necessary amendments and in the attribution of necessary there is the fact that they are not real amendments, that is, changes to the text, but transpositions aimed at adapting the text to constitutional budgetary principles. It should be made clear that these were not amendments by the rapporteurs in the general sense of the term, but for the precise sake of amendments voted individually by the Justice Commission. I shall now turn to the regulatory reference rule, which has shown the will of the members of the Justice Commission. The vulnus which would have occurred if the Commission had not been called upon to express its will in relation to these instruments which transpose the conditions of the 5th Commission, on the contrary it was manifested through the exercise of the right to vote expressed with reference to the individual amendments which were tabled on the point. I would like to stress, even if it is superfluous (I am addressing the President, but at the same time as the whole Assembly) that Rule 103 of the Rules of Procedure, under the circumstances of which these transposition amendments have been voted on, allows for substantial amendments to the text, since in that provision there is a reference to the need to correct rules that have proved incompatible or irreconcilable with the purposes assigned to the law. There is a clear manifestation of the substantial, non-formal, scope of the amendments that can be introduced through the system provided for in Rule 103 of our Rules of Procedure, which involves not formal coordination, which the rapporteurs carry out by virtue of their mandate at the end of the legislative process which takes place in the Commission. Those are formal proposals for coordination. That's another thing. Article 103 provides for substantial proposals for coordination because, in compliance with the literal provision of Article 103, they are useful in making the legislative text compatible and compatible with the aim assigned to the law. Therefore, it is clear that if any provision is to be made compatible with the purposes assigned to the law, there is a very broad mandate for the substantive amendment of the text. I repeat, however, that this substantial change in the text has not occurred here because the Commission has limited itself, by voting individually on the amendments, to accepting those conditions which make the text constitutionally consistent. Mr President, I have allowed myself to refer to practice as a source of parliamentary law. President Palma has spoken about this, and I am obliged to do so in a very brief way, because we have a precedent in the 2015 Justice Commission, which decides in the sense in which the Commission has decided. There is also another precedent of 2005, again of the 2nd Commission, which, by receiving the indications of the Budget Commission, proceeds pursuant to Article 103; a precedent of 2005 of the 1st Commission, a precedent of 2005 of 13th Commission (acts, of course, are available) and a precedent in 2004 of the 7th Commission. Above all, there is an even more significant precedent, always relating to the 2nd Commission, namely the draft law No 2607 on provisions relating to legal aid workers. Following the procedure laid down in Article 103, with the approval, by vote, of the individual amendments, it was decided at the related sitting to introduce a provision extending the provisions, up to that time dictated only to the staff of justice, also to the witnesses of justice. In coordination, therefore, voting under Article 103 duplicated the scope of the legislative provision because it was extended by the collaborators also to the witnesses of justice. At the same time, a further provision was introduced which made those provisions applicable not only to those who had become collaborators of justice after the entry into force of the law, but also to those who had previously been collaborators. In the context of what I have to say to the House as a whole, there is also another, which reflects well-known issues of parliamentary law on the practical side. That I had raised the question of the possible approval of the conditions laid down by the 5th Commission, which had not even intervened at the time (as of 23 May), is reflected in the Report of the sitting of the Commission on Justice of 23 May. Therefore, the senators were informed of the indication that the President had allowed himself to say that, once the conditions had been met by the Budget Commission, these would have been voted in accordance with Rule 103 of the Rules of Procedure. Good. In that context, no one raised any objection. I quote the contradictive nemine's parliamentary practice to point out the fact that, in that context, none of those present objected by legitimizing the use of a procedure that had been advanced by three weeks compared to the time when the problem arose. In fact, Senator Caliendo reported - but they also take into account the Reports of the Justice Commission - that the problem was posed on June 13th. On that date, it was followed by the procedure indicated in advance on 23 May. Therefore, first of all, we have the general claim that the relevance of a procedural defect is given by the measure of the injury that the infringement has caused. There is obviously no violation in this regard... SPOSETTI (PD). Stop talking! D'ASCOLA (AP-CpE-NCD). In addition to the missing violation of every principle, it contributes to a parliamentary practice absolutely... SPOSETTI (PD). They talk to each other! [[Applause from Senator Comaroli).]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-06-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-844.ana.u32	Senator Spousetti, the President of the Justice Commission is speaking.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-06-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-844.ana.u33	BEEPS (PD). We are listening to a discussion among the members of the Justice Commission! PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. We are dealing with a procedural issue that has been raised. Senator Spousetti, you may not have entered the procedure or the substance of the matter. Please, Senator D'Ascola. D'ASCOLA (AP-CpE-NCD). Mr President, I had come to the conclusion. For these reasons, I consider it manifestly unfounded both the question referred for a preliminary ruling and the question of suspension.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-06-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-844.ana.u34	On behalf of the Assembly, I greet the students of the Seminary of parliamentary studies and researches "Silvano Tosi" in Florence, who attend our work, committed to following a question of parliamentary procedure very interesting also for the purposes of their studies. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-06-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-844.ana.u35	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-06-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-844.ana.u36	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-06-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-844.ana.u37	ZANDA (PD). Mr President, I have lost track of the work of this House. We're discussing a proposal made by Senator Palma, aren't we?
ParlaMint-IT_2017-06-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-844.ana.u38	I will summarize what has happened, since there has been some inattention. Senator Caliendo posed two questions, one preliminary and the other suspensive. On the suspensive issue another suspensive (a suspensive of the suspensive) has been introduced, with the request of Senator Palma to postpone the vote. Senator Falanga (on both issues) spoke on the procedural issue and then the President of the Justice Commission, Senator D'Ascola. Then Senator Spousetti evidently failed to follow these things well. [[Ironic applause from Senator Martelli.]] BEEPS (PD). No! No! PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Excuse the joke. Please, Senator Zanda.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-06-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-844.ana.u39	I understood. I would like to make it quite clear what position I think is correct. This is a strategic measure of the Democratic Party, in the sense that we have promoted it and supported it both in the Chamber of Deputies and in the Senate and we want it to be approved in this legislature. [[Applause from the PD Group]] Having said that, since the correctness and serenity of the work of this House are important, if the subject is to start the general debate at Tuesday afternoon's sitting, we have no problems. If, on the other hand, the theme is not to finish what we started (i.e. the vote on the suspensive issue), this is not possible. We are voting on what we have started and if there is a request, a need for reflection, so that the general debate begins at Tuesday afternoon, on this we can allow it. [[Applause from the PD Group]] BULGARRELLI (M5S). Does Senator Zanda decide if he can afford it?
ParlaMint-IT_2017-06-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-844.ana.u40	Colleagues, with regard to the procedural question and to the considerations made on what happened in the Commission, the Presidency notes in advance that the coordinating proposal constitutes an institution which the Regulation provides for logical-formal coherence of the text and to remedy any material errors. However, the coordinating proposals adopted in the Commission, although intended to adapt the text to the conditions laid down by the budget Commission, contain substantial changes which should have been introduced more appropriately by the submission of genuine amendments. It should be noted, however, that in the Commission the voting procedures for coordinating proposals and amendments are completely identical, since there is no possibility, on the other hand, of requiring for amendments only aggravated voting procedures. It therefore stops the need to confirm the procedural linearity laid down in the Rules of Procedure for the work of the Commission, but it can be noted that the possibility of using proposals for coordination had been announced by the President of the Commission at the sitting of 23 May last, as he has just reminded us, following the continuation of the non-expression of the opinion of the 5th Commission well beyond the prescribed regulatory deadlines. On that occasion, however, as has been reiterated once again, there were no objections to the proposed procedural solution. Although the Presidency intends to reiterate the exceptional nature of the procedure followed, the procedure in the referee is undoubtedly more flexible and less formal than the rules of the debate in this House. In fact, the presentation of a series of proposals for coordination of a very precise nature, each referring to individual articles or portions of text, has allowed a sufficiently analytical examination in accordance with the principles of the economy and the clarity of the votes laid down in Rule 102 (4) of the Rules of Procedure. Even the importance of the lamented compression of the power to submit sub-amendments resulting from the choice to use the instrument of the coordination proposal does not seem, however, to have any significant consequences in respect of the respect of the rights guaranteed to each Member of Parliament. The literal wording of Article 103 (1) of the Rules of Procedure allows each senator to submit alternative proposals for coordination. The possibility of taking further action on the Commission's text through the submission of further proposals for amendments remains, in any case, fully guaranteed by the subsequent examination in the Assembly, as demonstrated by the amendments already tabled by Senators Caliendo and Palma, aimed at restoring in several passages the original text approved by the Chamber of Deputies. In the light of these considerations, on the basis of the principles of the preservation of acts and of the procedural economy, it being understood that what has happened cannot in any case constitute a precedent, the Presidency considers that it is possible to continue the examination of the measure. That is what the Presidency has decided from the procedural point of view. Let us now go to the questions of substance: a preliminary question, from a point of view, and then a suspensive one. It seems to me that there is no withdrawal of the question referred for a preliminary ruling, which is still pending, and that only a postponement of the suspension has been requested.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-06-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-844.ana.u41	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-06-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-844.ana.u42	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-06-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-844.ana.u43	[[Protests from the PD Group]] BEEPS (PD). Stop it! Cut it out! PALMA (FI-PdL XVII). I'm sorry, Senator Sposetti, but - I have to tell you the truth - I don't force anyone to listen to me. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator Palma, do not entertain dialogues with other senators. PALMA (FI-PdL XVII). President, I will not enter into dialogues if you avoid... president. I gave her the floor. Do your speech. PALMA (FI-PdL XVII). All right, ma'am. I have to tell you the truth: I have listened to your speech, but this concerns me even more. I wish what happened was clear. You say that this is an exceptional procedure which cannot be a precedent, which is to say that the Commission must not dare to redo what it has done because what the President allows now allows it in a completely exceptional way. In a passage from your speech, you say that it would have been preferable to make amendments, but basically, having voted on the individual proposals for coordination, the result was the same in the end. No, Mr. President. If it is true that there is no provision for an aggravated procedure in the Commission, i.e. - to be clear - there is no provision for the sub-emerging phase, it is also true, Mr President, that from the point of view of practice - I am speaking to you for the 2nd Commission - every time the rapporteurs have tabled amendments the sub-emerging season has always opened. Therefore, if there has been a very well-established practice in the Justice Commission, it has been to open the sub-amendment season whenever the rapporteurs have tabled amendments. I would add, Mr President, that, when we came to the point of verifying coordination under Rule 103 of the Rules of Procedure, namely when from the theory - and I inform you that we are going to coordinate - we moved on to practice, both Senator Caliendo and I said that we did not accept those changes as formal coordination and we demanded that we move on to the season of amendments. Mr President, I do not know all the precedents mentioned by President D'Ascola. But, as one concerns the period of my presidency, I would advise you to read the report of that sitting, in which you will find it written "unanimously". And, therefore, there was no contrast with the move to the seat of coordination. You understand that it is not a minor difference. And I said that for a form of precision in general. I would add, Mr President, a brief remark on coordination: you have read Article 103 and you have rightly referred to material error, then merely formal coordination and contrast with other provisions. Well, it is not written anywhere that a Commission must have access to the conditions laid down by the Budget Commission. A Commission can easily come to the Chamber and even vote on a measure contrary to the opinion of the Budget Commission and the body guaranteeing the correctness of the legislative procedure is the President of the Republic, who can refer the resolution back to the House with his message. I say this because saying that coordination is automatic on the basis of the conditions laid down by the Budget Commission means that the Budget Commission has the capacity to amend the texts for all the Commissions of this Senate. That is clearly not in line with the Rules of Procedure, Mr President. After that President Zanda said that it is a strategic measure that the members of the Democratic Party want and intend to close in this parliamentary term. I agree with you. Just a small invitation, President Zanda: close it well. If by one year the measure were to fall under the werenaia of the Constitutional Court, it would be resolved not in a strategic measure, but in the yet another strategic propaganda commercial pre-election. [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-06-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-844.ana.u44	He asked the Minister for Relations with Parliament, Senator Finocchiaro. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-06-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-844.ana.u45	Mr President, I know that this is not a ritual intervention, but I take the floor precisely because of the importance that the Government attaches to the measure and because of the importance that all the political forces of the Senate attach to it, otherwise we would not explain the competition of so many wills and the important contribution that has come from so many quarters to define the text. I am also referring to the contribution of my colleagues Palma and Caliendo, which has been very useful in defining and making the text more relevant. I am speaking on a political issue first of all and of course not on what will be the decisions that will be taken competently at the time of the vote. However, I would like to say something substantial, because I would like to avoid the burden on the measure under consideration of a wing that has been evoked, namely that it would itself have a vulnus and a fragility of constitutional legitimacy which would therefore make it weak in relation to the intention - which I believe is absolutely shared - to make it a strong instrument, which marks an important turning point in the order in terms of contrast not only to criminal organizations, but also to serious phenomena of corruption within the public administration and subjection of pieces - hopefully the most rare - of public administration to the will of illegal interests, sometimes organized even criminally. I believe that this fragility does not exist, and not only for the reasons given here and for the principle cited by President D'Ascola, but also for a reason which is much more simply about the value and weight of this House's vote. At a time when the text, even if it is composed in such a way - I thank President Grasso who intended to declare that the eventuality of formal coordination does not constitute a precedent - is examined and voted by the House, it is fully legitimate and there can be no temptation on any side to attribute a diminished force to it. It is for the reason that the work that has been done in the Commission - we act in the referee, if we act in the deliberating session it would be another assessment - is entirely returned to the Assembly and because, in the debate and in the subsequent examination of the individual amendments and amendments to the rapporteurs' amendments, the full legitimacy and strength of the measure can be affirmed. That is all I wanted to say, because frankly I would be sorry and find it unfair, for the work done and for the political intention paid out in this measure, that a procedural debate might call into question the intention, the will and the strength expressed in the bill by the various parliamentary forces.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-06-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-844.ana.u46	We shall therefore proceed to the vote. I put to the vote the question referred by Senators Caliendo and Palma for a preliminary ruling. It's not approved. Before putting the suspensive question to the vote, I put to the vote the motion for a postponement to the next sitting of the vote, tabled by Senator Palma. [[Brusio]] It's not approved.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-06-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-844.ana.u47	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-06-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-844.ana.u48	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-06-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-844.ana.u49	ZANDA (PD). Mr President, I do not know what was put to the vote, but I understood that we would vote on the suspension issue and, after voting on it, we would postpone the general debate until Tuesday. Isn't that right?
ParlaMint-IT_2017-06-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-844.ana.u50	No. A request has been made for a postponement of the consideration of the suspensive question, which has been voted on; then the suspensive question will be voted on and then, if necessary, his request to postpone the continuation of the examination of the measure to another sitting. These are the requests that have been received by the Presidency. The proposal to postpone the discussion of the suspensive issue has not been approved, and I am therefore going to put the question to the vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-06-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-844.ana.u51	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-06-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-844.ana.u52	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-06-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-844.ana.u53	PALMA (FI-PdL XVII). Mr President, since the vote on the question for a preliminary ruling has been so clear and the reasons put forward in support of the suspensive question are essentially the same and since I do not intend in any way to hinder the wishes of the Democratic Party, I withdraw the suspensive question.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-06-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-844.ana.u54	We take note of that.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-06-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-844.ana.u55	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-06-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-844.ana.u56	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-06-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-844.ana.u57	SACCONI (AP-CpE-NCD). Mr. President, I'll make it mine.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-06-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-844.ana.u58	I put to the vote the question of suspensive QS1, presented by Senators Palma and Caliendo, later withdrawn and taken over by Senator Sacconi. It's not approved. We move on to the request, made by Senator Zanda, to postpone the continuation of the examination of the drafts of law in title to another session. [[Brusio.]] Is there or is there not this request? [[Senator Zanda's comments.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-06-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-844.ana.u59	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-06-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-844.ana.u60	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-06-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-844.ana.u61	ROMANI Paolo (FI-PdL XVII). Mr President, in the confusion I make the request, previously made by President Zanda, to postpone the general debate until Tuesday afternoon.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-06-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-844.ana.u62	I therefore put to the vote the proposal to postpone the continuation of the discussion of the drafts of law in title to another session, advanced by Senator Romani Paolo. DI MAY (GAL (DI, GS, MPL, RI)). Are we voting as a joke? PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator Di Maggio, we're voting. We're not kidding. Do not interrupt the vote. If necessary, he then asks to intervene. DI MAY (GAL (DI, GS, MPL, RI)). But we have already voted. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. No. We are voting on a request for a postponement of the follow-up to the examination of the drafts of law in another sitting, on which there is clearly no unanimity. If there were, there would be no need to vote. We are voting not on the request for a postponement of the examination of the suspensive matter, but on the request for a postponement of the examination of the draft law. [[Comments of Senator Di Maggio]] Check the report and you'll see that's not the case. It's approved. SANTANGELO (M5S). Let's ask for a rehearsal. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I order the doors closed. We proceed to counter-test by electronic procedure. It's approved. I therefore refer the continuation of the debate on the draft law to another sitting.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-06-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-844.ana.u63	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-06-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-844.ana.u64	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-06-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-844.ana.u65	Mr Ferrara Elena (PD). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, today is 21 June, the day of the summer solstice and the European Music Festival. We are at the thirty-sixth edition of a feast born in 1982 in France, which a few years later spread to all European countries and today has contaminated, in a positive sense, many countries in the world. This morning in this House we talked about Europe and often in Europe tragic events and terrorist massacres struck precisely the places of music, starting with France, with the Bataclan, of which I would like to remind the Italian victim, Valeria Solesin. The massacre of Manchester is even closer to us, as it is now a month since that tragic event. I would like to recall how the community of families, boys and music lovers reacted, who, together with many artists, met on 4 June in the concert entitled "One love Manchester." Once again music has been claimed as a great antidote to terrorism. Music and the arts are the best deterrent to the culture of fear and threat. Just the Senate, last year, thanks to the interest of President Pietro Grasso, hosted a concert that saw the protagonists of the inmates and prisoners of the choir "Papageno" of the Dozza prison in Bologna, and there were many personalities present. Monday was presented in preview a documentary, which today RAI broadcast at 10 am and which will still be broadcast Saturday at 12.25 on RAI 5, which is titled: "Shalom! The music comes from inside. Journey to the Papageno choir, together with another very important experience, "Project school in Canto" in Rome, once again testifying how these languages can help everyone. And we have been saying this since we launched an appeal, on the occasion of the death of Master Abbado, collected in a bill, which has become provisions such as Legislative Decree No. 60, which entered into force on May 31 of this year, a few weeks ago, which claims the importance of humanistic culture, the enhancement of heritage and the support of creativity as a right for all children and girls, boys and girls and all European citizens. 18.03 (Ferrara Elena followed). Next year will be the year of the heritage and we, with our sensitivity, right here in the Senate - I once again thank the extraordinary Commission for human rights and the parliamentary Intergroup for music, which has been working on these issues for some time - can say aligned to defend and promote these languages together, which are the basis of a culture of peace, tolerance and fraternity, which are certainly part of the speeches that President Gentiloni Silveri addressed to the Assembly today. Even with respect to web life, only these languages will be able to counter web homologation and make aesthetic what is anesthetic today. [[Applause from the PD Group and Senator Laniece. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-06-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-844.ana.u66	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-06-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-844.ana.u67	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-06-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-844.ana.u68	BLUNDO (M5S). Madam President, I will speak briefly for the umpteenth time, and I will do so every week, until we succeed in achieving a result, which we have actually already achieved, with this House having decided on 10 November last a single-chamber parliamentary committee of inquiry for the reconstruction of L'Aquila. And with the bill that we have passed we intend to investigate both what has been done in the emergency and the reconstruction itself, so it is a real act due to the citizens but also that justice that is late to arrive. I would like to ask why the members of the Commission have not yet been appointed. I therefore urge the President to inform us of this impediment and all the groups, if they have not yet proposed their senators who wish to join, to give us answers on this matter soon. But above all we are waiting for a timely and secure appointment of the members of the Commission.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-06-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-844.ana.u69	The Presidency will take note of this and urge it to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-06-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-844.ana.u70	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-06-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-844.ana.u71	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-06-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-844.ana.u72	EXPOSED Stefano (PD). Madam President, as you know, on the evening of 3 June Turin was hit by a serious incident linked to the Champions League final, which took place in Scotland. Parliamentary activities were firm at that time and there was therefore no opportunity to make a communication on this matter. It is known to all that, unfortunately, in recent days, Erika has died, one of the girls wounded. My speech wants to emphasize that, after those events, yesterday evening in Turin there was unfortunately a further tail linked to the events of San Carlo Square, albeit indirectly. After those events the mayor of Turin, in agreement with the prefect and the commissioner, has chosen to issue a series of stricter directives on the sale of alcohol and their consumption; norms that unfortunately were immediately challenged by some known sectors of the city, in particular by the social center Askatasuna, whose exponents in the last ten days have attacked on several occasions the Forces of the Order. And we arrived to record yesterday, in Piazza Santa Giulia, some clashes that also involved the adventurers present in the dehor. It is clear, Madam President, that this is a very serious matter for Turin, a city used for many years to host square parties, to have its entire parts dedicated to culture, music and meeting people. What happened in Piazza San Carlo is an incredible fact: 1,527 wounded. I do not think that, for a moment of leisure, such a situation has ever occurred. But here we are not looking for responsibilities that will have to be established. What is certain is that full protection of the Forces of Order is necessary. Yesterday, policemen were attacked and wounded by representatives of this social centre, sadly known. And I must say that I am concerned that there may be, in some political force, the idea that the fault of enforcing the rules, wanted by the mayor of Turin and that we support - as long as they are in force - may fall on the forces of order and not on the political hooliganism of the social center. I believe it is useful that this communication is also transmitted to the Minister of the Interior and it is necessary to bring solidarity to the Forces of Order. I then address an invitation to the Turin administration to continue along the path of legality, as it has been undertaken. [[Applause from Senator Di Biagio.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-06-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-844.ana.u73	The motions, questions and questions received by the Presidency will be published in Annex B to today's report.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-06-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-844.ana.u74	The Senate will meet again in two public sessions on Tuesday 27 June, the first at 11 a.m. and the second at 4.30 p.m., with the following agenda: (See agenda) The sitting was closed at 18.11 a.m.
