ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-775.ana.u1	The sitting is open (9.32 a.m.). The Minutes shall be read. Mr Amati, secretary, read the Minutes of the afternoon sitting of the previous day. CANDIANI (LN-Aut). I'm asking to talk. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. You have the right to do so. CANDIANI (LN-Aut). Madam President, I would ask the Secretary Senators, when they read the Minutes, to want to do so more slowly, because it is really misunderstood.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-775.ana.u2	Since there were no comments, the Minutes were approved.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-775.ana.u3	The list of senators on leave and absent on assignment received from the Senate, as well as further communications to the Assembly, will be published in Annex B to today's Minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-775.ana.u4	I would warn you that qualified votes can be taken in the course of today's sitting by electronic means. Therefore, from this moment the period of 20 minutes from the notice provided for in Article 119, paragraph 1, of the Regulation (9:34 hours) begins.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-775.ana.u5	The next item is the continuation of the debate on draft law Nos. 2494, already approved by the Chamber of Deputies, 2241 and 2437. Senator Albano is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-775.ana.u6	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, we are dealing here today with a measure which is awaited and much needed to finally give a concrete response to the 4,585 000 Italians who, according to the last Istat report, live in absolute poverty. We are talking about 1,582,000 families, or 7.6 percent of the Italian population, the highest figure since 2005. Poverty still affects a great deal in the South, but it also grows in the North, mainly involving large families with educational qualifications below high school graduation, but we must not overlook the emergence of so-called new poverty in our contemporary society, affecting young people, graduates or highly specialized professional profiles, and more generally all those situations in which people suddenly find themselves in a state of vulnerability because of the precariousness of work and therefore the uncertainty and unpredictability of the availability of economic resources that can allow them to meet their needs. The new poverty does not have homogeneous characteristics, but is cross-cutting in terms of both socio-educational and demographic characteristics. We therefore have the young university student who is unable to enter the labour market; the family that suddenly no longer has the ability to cope with expenses due to the loss of work by one of the members; the young under 34 who have put up a family; the divorced parent who is not economically able to bear the expenses of a house alone; persons whose pension is not sufficient to guarantee decent conditions; low-income workers and so on. It is precisely this characteristic of heterogeneity of the causes and social groups affected that requires the implementation of various instruments for labour market integration and economic support. Poverty mainly affects children. Still according to the last Istat report, in a class of twenty pupils, statistically two of them live in absolute poverty. This condition can seriously affect their ability to have the same opportunities for training and social development as their comrades, putting a heavy mortgage on their future. I would like to recall here the important contribution that the Nobel Prize winner, philosopher and economist in India, Amartya Sen, has made to contemporary thinking: when we talk about poverty, we talk about limiting freedom and therefore the lack of democracy. In the wake of Keynesian thought, the economy must be at the service of the person, not the other way around. The economy, that is to say the various solutions to the dilemma between desires to be met unlimited and limited resources, must be useful and aimed at the well-being of humanity, I dare say to the search and satisfaction of our need for happiness. I would also add that reducing inequalities and supporting the less well-off are not useless for development, but generate fundamental positive externalities whose relapse is for the benefit of the community. Reducing poverty means restoring freedom: the freedom to make choices that are not conditioned by the lack of means of subsistence, the lack of education that gives the tools to interpret the world; and freedom of choice is the indispensable basis of every democratic system. Freedom to refuse irregular and underpaid jobs; freedom to send their children to school or to practice a sport or other activities; freedom to choose how, where and with whom to live; freedom to express one's own thoughts. All this is impossible if we are to fear for our own economic self-sufficiency. The free self-regulation of the market unfortunately cannot make up for creating the conditions for the whole community to be in the same position to make free choices. For this reason, the State must ensure that freedom and democracy are restored to its citizens, including through measures that involve more aspects and disciplines and that, at the same time, do not discriminate against the recipient of these measures than other members of the community, making it clearly recognizable as a person in need. The delegation law that we are going to discuss today changes the policies of combating poverty that we have seen implemented so far. For the first time in addition to the economic support already seen in the past with various formulations of the social card will be studied personalized work and social reintegration projects, thanks to an integrated network of interventions by local authorities, employment centers, third sector operators and schools. At last we try to transform Italy into a state that conceives welfare not only as welfare, but as giving concrete and personalized tools to fully and firmly reintegrate into that social network that fails when we lose a sufficient source of income, knowing that the mobility of the age of globalization requires rapid and effective interventions. Today, through this delegation law, the Government is authorised to launch a uniform measure on national territory against poverty and social exclusion, to reorder welfare benefits and to strengthen and coordinate the interventions of social services, as required by the law of stability 2016, extending the audience of those entitled to social inclusion income on the basis of the ISEE and adherence to social and work inclusion projects, with particular attention to families with children or disabled, up to reach about one million Italians with a billion funding. Of course, it can be considered a drop in the sea, but it could be just that drop that allows you to make the qualitative leap that allows people to get back into employment, or to help young people and women enter the labour market. "Italy is a Republic based on work" "It is our Constitution, our goal must always be to make this statement concrete and not a dramatic irony." [[Applause from the PD Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-775.ana.u7	Senator Cioffi is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-775.ana.u8	Madam President, today we are talking about the problems of people, the weakest; it should therefore be a good, useful and even important day. First of all, therefore, I would like to thank Senator Catalfo, who has been fighting hard since we entered this Parliament to propose the subject that we are talking about: citizenship income, structural reform of the system. Our proposal is the result of a debate involving 9,000 people, who have contributed to the drafting of this text and, therefore, we do nothing but apply the rule we gave ourselves: it is people who decide not only the subject but also the way in which the issues are proposed; this is our method and we can only be satisfied. However, I would like to make a quote. I generally do not, but today I would like to quote President Roosevelt: True individual freedom cannot exist without economic security and independence. Hungry and jobless people are the pasta of which the dictatorships are made. The problem is simply this: we must remove people from redditional blackmail and the only way to do this is to bring back to the centre the fundamental principle of freedom. I have heard many words in this House, I have heard of person, of dignity, Senator Favero spoke of utopia and, last but not least, Senator Albano spoke of freedom. I'd like to say two things. One to the right side of the Chamber, to those who have put the word freedom at the centre of their political proposal. If, therefore, they have put that word at the heart of their political proposal, they should be the first to marry the hypothesis of citizenship income, because it means true freedom, the most revolutionary word ever uttered in history. Freedom allows a citizen not to sell a vote for 30 euros and I know what that means from Campania. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] The word freedom, for example, means not being blackmailed by the politician who offers you a job six months before the elections. If we really want to put that word back at the centre, we must not do it in the way that the majority proposes, which has missed the opportunity to do something beautiful. They told us that we love utopia and it is true: we love utopia, which is a wonderful word. You, dear comrades of the PD, have lost your energy because you have abandoned utopia and have become managing directors of a state that no longer dreams: this is your deep limit. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] After the 80 euro measure, we create another small fig leaf. We, on the other hand, have proposed income and that means that we must have the strength to put people in a position to overcome the limits of poverty. The analysis made by INPS on our proposal clearly shows that it changes the levels of inequality: with your proposals, however, this level does not change. If a measure has a "cost" of EUR 14 billion, it cannot be said that it gives the freedom by allocating only one billion euros: 1 is not equal to 14 and it certainly does not take a great mathematical science to understand it. That is why we are in this situation: we have nine million citizens who are in this situation. What do you want to do? Do you have the courage to bring back to the centre the dream of putting citizens in a position to be different? In this historical moment the world is changing, the industry is changing and everything is changing. The advancement of technology will produce what has already happened: I remember, when it was small, that the FIAT introduced robots to paint the machines and protested because the work of those who painted the car would be replaced by a robot. This kind of process is going on: the disconnect between income and work is in fact and there is no other solution. Perhaps we will tax robots, but we must understand that people need to bring the concept of freedom back to the centre of their lives. That is why what is being proposed to us is totally inadequate, and that is the problem that has gripped us for too long. Therefore, I urge you to have simply a little'sound courage to throw the heart beyond the obstacle, otherwise, as usual, the words will not correspond to the facts and will remain only empty and useless words, which do not solve the problems. [[Applause from the M5S Group. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-775.ana.u9	He's enlisted to speak Senator Angioni. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-775.ana.u10	Madam President, Mr Senator, for more than half of the 20th century, in our country, the subject of extreme poverty and poverty, rather than of individuals or individual households, has concerned the normal living conditions of vast territories, if not of entire regions. We are certainly talking above all about the South, but also about vast areas of Central Italy and North East. Some of these territories have long been considered among the poorest in Europe and, between the fifties and the seventies of the last century, not only for post-war reconstruction, but above all with policies of redistribution of income linked to national economic growth, millions of people came out of the condition of extreme poverty, as never before in Italy had happened since its foundation. From the seventies onwards, this tells us all the statistics, the incidence of poverty remains in our country more or less stable. The crisis, lasting over six years, and the presence in Italy of more than five million foreigners from countries among the poorest in the world, have determined, in recent years, the very evident finding of a phenomenon that can further expand in the coming years, with the risk of the sliding of entire classes, which until a few years ago we would have defined as average, towards the abyss of insecurity and economic uncertainty. The greatest concern is one element that distinguishes new poverty from those of even a few years ago: work is no longer sufficient to remove the risk of poverty. Today, in our country, you can work and not have the means of sustenance adequate for yourself and for your family. This can only change the state's approach to poverty. Today, social assistance for citizens is largely shared by the municipalities, although in recent years the role of the regions that have almost all legislated in the fight against poverty has gradually increased. In most cases, however, these are measures which we could define as experimental and however very marginal, measures limited in time, with little funding, which have never allowed the construction of a stable and certain system for citizens and homogeneous throughout the national territory. Only a national legislation, contained in the 1999 Finance Act, had provided for the so-called minimum income of inclusion, a regulation which was certainly also experimental, which was growing over the years but which the 2004 Central Right Government had abandoned to propose different instruments such as that mentioned also this morning of the social card. This is more or less the national framework on which the need to find new tools to combat poverty has arisen, and I say new because the needs of millions of people in our country are also new. This is how bill No. 2494 was born. A framework of experimental and territorially divided instruments is opposed, for the first time, to a homogeneous and universal instrument, a tool that is born today but obviously needs to grow over the years to start with a much greater endowment. That of homogeneity and universality, however, seems to me to be the preliminary point but also the most significant one, in particular for future application prospects. It is not the State of solidarity that does charity to some citizens but it is the State that applies the second paragraph of Article 3 of the Constitution, taking on the direct responsibility of removing the economic and social obstacles that effectively limit equality between citizens. With regard to these ambitions, how is the draft law currently under consideration to combat poverty and social exclusion of citizens? First of all, through the introduction of the income of inclusion, providing for an essential level of benefits to be guaranteed throughout the national territory, a universal measure, conditional on testing the means on the basis of the ISEE, with personalised inclusion projects that do not end up in mere economic endowments but also concern the services to the person. The reference to families and in particular to those with minor and disabled children, to pregnant women and to over fifty-five years of age without work is fundamental. It is also important to reorder benefits of a welfare nature and to strengthen the coordination of social services interventions in order to ensure essential levels of benefits throughout the national territory. We then come to the promotion of territorial agreements between social services and other bodies and bodies competent for employment, education, training, housing policies and health in a close relationship - as never happened in our country - between the public, third sector and private social. Madam President, today we have a measure which certainly does not have the ambition to solve definitively a problem that has a huge dimension, especially when compared to its impact with our public budget. Senator Cioffi, this is not about utopia; if anything, it is - I don't know how to say - not to make fun of millions of citizens, especially the weaker ones. [[Applause from the PD Group]] It means ending with the rhetoric of a saving measure that is written on paper but does not indicate where to find the tens and tens of billions of euros that should instead support it. [[Comments of the Senator Catalfo]] We have some more certain and probably less eager ambition, that of a measure that needs much more substantial endowments than what is planned today, that must confront the unknown of its effective application in the different territories of our country, but that has the merit of associating the theme of poverty with that of the rights of every citizen who is in extreme need not to be left alone by the State. WOMAN (M5S). You leave them alone! ANGIONES (PD). The measure will initially be able to address just over 400,000 people or families. It will be said that it is little compared to the millions of people who would need it, but it opens, in any case, a new way in our country, building a system that empowers the State to take charge directly of its operation. It is little more than the beginning of a journey, but with this measure today we are taking a significant step in the right direction. I think I can say that this significant step forward is being taken in respect in particular of the weakest sections of our citizens to whom we turn and say: with the scarce economic resources on which the State can rely today, that is what the State can do. Everything else is not utopia, but rhetoric and mockery of these citizens. [[Applause from the PD Group. Comments from the M5S Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-775.ana.u11	Senator Rizzotti is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-775.ana.u12	Madam President, all we can do is applaud this worthy, meritorious and urgent speech which is welcome, since in the last three years it could have been dealt with much earlier without tweets and electoral tips, but with concrete measures. The singular aspect of this delegation law - it is in fact a blank delegation to the Government that aims to combat poverty - is that unfortunately it does not allocate a copèco. I say this in Russian currency because, in four years of government, the Italian socialist left has been able to create the record, never before reached, of 15 million poor. Even the communist regimes of the Soviet Union had not succeeded in this undertaking. Congratulations! [[Applause from Senator Giro]] The 15 million poor certified by the INPS and the 17.5 million at risk of poverty and social exclusion are an indisputable fact. There are 4.5 million Italians in absolute poverty; 1,131 million are the poor Italian minors (about yesterday's debate); one in ten children is poor, twice as much as the 2011 figures. Absolute poverty is described by Istat as being impossible to dispose of all the goods and services needed to lead a decent standard of living. What is the cause of this poverty? Certainly the international economic crisis, the decline of the economy of our country, the paralysis of many productive activities, our companies that close, the public debt that rises dramatically: 20 billion per month from the last three years. It has certainly not responded with policies of development, liberalisation and investment: these create prosperity. I would say that the interventions to combat poverty, contained also in the last budget maneuver, seem to be Mussolini's famous armies: not one cent more, despite the proclamations and trombones played in this House. The fund for combating poverty, to reach the current 1.2 billion, has been enriched by 150 million, however, from the unemployment benefit. They will become just over 1.7 billion in 2018-2019, only if the next budget law succeeds in confirming the financial cover adopted in December, and we know that there is that small problem of the 3.4 billion that the European Union is asking us to account for. Despite the rhetoric and loud words about this measure, therefore, the rules set out in this text do not provide for real appropriations here and now. The introduction of income for those living in absolute poverty is expected, and we certainly agree with that, but I would like to remind you - for social justice, not for other reasons - of some small detail. The persons entitled to income of inclusion are rightly families with children: it is a pity that in Italy children are no longer made of them. According to the last Istat survey, in 2015 the birth rate was 1.35 percent; therefore, no more children are born, unless there is some moneyy rich who can afford to go abroad to buy or rent a uterus and then have their children transcribed in Italy, as we know very well. Italians no longer have children. It is certainly important to turn finally to pensioners, who have been excluded from that famous bonus of 80 euros, who had to raise consumption in our country (and we know that at least two million people have to return it in a single installment). I would like all these right measures of solidarity and support for a dignified life to be addressed first and foremost to Italian citizens and then distributed to others. I would think, for example, of the separate fathers, about whom everyone on television may be talking, pitying them, but of whom no one cares, who sleep in their cars, as long as they still possess them. One element that has left me somewhat perplexed, for example, is Article 1, paragraph 2, point (c), or the requirement of minimum duration of the period of residence in the national territory. Since, as I have already said, this is a blank delegation, I would like to know the length of this minimum period of residence, because, as we know, someone has taken care to talk about ius solo on which to put trust because migrants must be welcomed. In 2016 182,000 illegals entered Italy, if any judge still allows me to pronounce this word; in Spain 5,000 have entered. We are also talking about the forecast of controls by the INPS. I wish the INPS could actually do these checks. Everyone is aware of the amount of the minimum pension granted for family reunifications and only occasionally remembers to go to the municipalities to see if the beneficiaries are still resident in Italy, because many non-EU citizens with family reunification receive a pension and then move abroad, because clearly 500 euros monthly in Morocco allow to lead a more dignified life than in Italy. In the amendment we asked not to count in ISEE income the income for the disabled child, perhaps for a scholarship or for an invalidity allowance, because by counting them in total income these severely deprived families who maintain a child at university or assist a disabled person are excluded from this aid. I believe that action could be taken sooner, better and more concretely, because the data tell us that the average amount allocated to people is EUR 300. This delegation also merely provides for a comprehensive reorganisation of the various systems of intervention and social assistance for the poor and the instruments currently in place to combat poverty seem to be a last resort today. Aid is not assessed solely on the basis of the amount covered by direct assistance policies. Of course, the resources needed to exclude all families at risk from the poverty line are much higher than those so far put in place: it is clearly a start, but it would be necessary to activate real fiscal policies that facilitate the integration and the permanence in the world of work of people who, while being heads of families, have a very low income. In fact, with this level of taxation, a family head with a household of four people, who may receive 28,000 euros per year of income, paying 7,000 in taxes, is practically living with 1,000 euros per month. The finding of economic resources does not go through the reorganization of direct interventions on the subjects considered poor, but from the creation of a framework of rules that improve their dignity and living conditions, reinserating them fully in the active circle of our society. [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-775.ana.u13	Senator D'Adda is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-775.ana.u14	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, what are we talking about when we deal with poverty? Paraphrasing Göran Therborn, a Swedish sociologist, we could say that poverty, extreme inequality, is a violation of human dignity. It takes many forms and has many consequences: not achieving a standard of life, defined by one's own society, which allows the minimum acceptable in terms of survival means in fact premature death, i.e. less expectation of life, bad health, humiliation, subordination, discrimination, exclusion from knowledge and/or from where social life mainly takes place, impotence, lack of self-confidence, opportunities and possibilities of life. It is not only a question of the size of the portfolio, to put it bluntly: it is a sociocultural system that reduces the capacity, respect and sense of self of the person, as well as the resources to participate fully in the life of the community. In the public debate the data we have quoted and all these indications become more and more known and the people more and more aware. Istat's data on Italian poverty tell us that 1,582,000 families, or 4.6 million people, have crossed the threshold of absolute poverty and about 6 million are in relative poverty. They are devastating: in 10 years, since the beginning of the crisis, the increase is 155%. Madam President, I would like to reply to Senator Cioffi saying that we have not abandoned utopia (we will never do so), but we are living in reality and the reality tells us that if the crisis is responsible for the dizzying rise recorded, let us not forget that we are offering a backwardness of intervention by the legislators who have succeeded each other over the years and which make our initiative not further procrastinable. However, it is difficult not to see how the welfare state, which has had an important role in the past, now has to change structurally if it wants to be incisive, because the world around us is changing. Changing the forms of production and allocation of resources, the way in which wealth is formed, creates unequal societies within and between them, within the framework of complex and hard globalization, as well as increasingly intensive technological development. The bill delegates that we go to approve, even within the intrinsic limits of the same and in the difficulties of the national context, moving having in mind this framework of reference, theoretical and practical. I want to say a few words about the debate that accompanies the measures on poverty. In this year, but hopefully even more in the election campaign, we will often talk about poverty and talk about it in the media. Although many associations, civil society actors and intermediate bodies have been working on the subject for years, the Senate incardination of bill No. 1148, presented by Senators Catalfo, Puglia and others, certainly has the merit of having placed the theme with great force. And yet, one of the reasons why we are talking about it and talking about it is not related to the content, but to the possibility with which certain politicians and certain media can manipulate its meaning, making the public believe to propose one thing while they are proposing another, because the terms in the debate often become elastic and misleading. Let us therefore make it clear that there can be no debate on citizenship income, because no one is proposing citizenship income. Citizenship income indicates a universal and permanent transfer to each individual, who complies with certain minimum requirements of membership of a society, without any limitation related to the economic condition and without any obligation to fulfil in order not to lose the benefit. To use the classic example of the philosopher John Rawls, it should also devolve to those who surf all day in front of the beach of Malibu and I believe that we cannot afford this and fall into utopia. It is clear in the text of the law that I quoted on page 4 that citizenship income is an ideal model. What is proposed in practice - and I quote again - is a first step towards policy choices towards the adoption of a system aimed at reducing social exclusion and increasing the possibility of the development of each individual within the framework of modern organized society by introducing selective criteria with respect to the benefit and beneficiaries, including the ISEE which has been contested. Gentlemen, here we are in the area of inclusion income or various minimum incomes, not citizenship income. This is also recognised and emphasised in the hearing of the President of Istat. Returning to the draft law we are dealing with, the House text could not be amended in order to be able to implement the measure as soon as possible and to make contributions in the current year. There will be a further possibility of working in the Commission with the implementing decrees. We can say, however, that now, for the first time in its history, even our country finally introduces a national measure with a universal vocation: the income of inclusion, an economic support, of course, with a personalized activation project, carried out by local authorities on the network with all the services of the territory. A universal measure, valid throughout the national territory, which, through the gradual increase in resources and the principle of reality, taking into account financial constraints and sustainability, establishes a Fund for the fight against poverty for a national plan, to which the resources given by the absorption of certain partial measures already in force and additional appropriations decided by other measures will be added. The measure will initially be addressed as a priority to families with minor children or with serious disabilities, pregnant women or unemployed people over 55 years of age, according to the principle of the progressive confluence of existing national experimental or one-off benefits, with the aim of gradually covering in recent years all people in poverty, overcoming any category reference. On the basis of the experience of the main European countries and the work of experts in the sector, access to the measure is governed by evidence of means and linked to the acceptance of work and social reintegration projects. In defining the benefit, account shall be taken of the economic condition of the household and its relationship with a reference threshold for the identification of the condition of poverty itself. The personalized activation project will be carried out by the multidisciplinary teams formed by the Municipalities united in the social and health fields, on the network with all the services of the territory: a plant already provided by law n. 328 of 2000, that the bill intends to strengthen and that I think the administrators know that it works. The measure makes a precise choice to ensure the effectiveness of the interventions: to focus on a strong collaboration between the various institutional levels and a strong integration between different subjects (Comuni, centres for employment, ASL, third sector) at district level, strengthening the network of services through the use of European funds and defining stable methods of associated management. After years of experimentation that, for different reasons, have never seen the goal (even because of the zeroing of the kopecs implemented by you, dear colleagues of the center-right, when you have taken the money away from the funds for social policies), we resume a long interrupted road, taking a first step towards the construction of a real measure of minimum income of inclusion, re-aligning our country to the founded solidarity vision of the European model. We know from the literature data on the subject, as from the practices already in place elsewhere, that these measures do not produce the "poor lazy" as some believe. Far from it. It is shown that continuous and effective support, an intelligent take on, promotes family and personal activities that lead to work to overcome the difficulties of life. The poor is poor. If he throws in the towel, it's because his community throws him in the corner and forgets him. Of course, there will be problems and difficulties in a country with variable geometries, where the diversity of territories is also evident in the diversity of territorial structures able to support the maneuver, where the economic situation demands that we proceed gradually. We will therefore need to monitor the continuous and regular influx of the necessary funds, we know that. Having said that, countering this intervention involves not only explaining the reasons for the difference between those who do not want, step by step, building a universal social protection, starting from what can be done today, and pointing all the chips on that one would ideally want. It also means telling the citizen that he waits - something, but waits - that, being unable to give everything now, we decide not to give or do anything. Who will explain it in the squares, in the markets, to who is in line for a hot dish and a coat? Can you explain it to those who sleep in cars? We really wouldn't be able to, and, to be honest, we wouldn't even want to be. [[Applause from the PD Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-775.ana.u15	Senator Council is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-775.ana.u16	Madam President, first of all, I wish you every success. Perhaps it was precisely the change of President-in-Office of the Council that was needed to ensure that the delegation on poverty came into question in the two branches of Parliament. Someone also recalled that we are the only country in Europe that does not have a national measure to support people in absolute poverty. Madam President, it may be two truths, but it is not enough to bring home a law on poverty made only for those who need to put a flag or need to say something in a political stalemate, or just because, perhaps, something had to be done. No, Madam President, we as a group are not in this respect: we need a good law. We needed a law that could really embrace all the problems and make sure that we deal with the conditions of a group of citizens who are going through very badly. A law that perhaps we, as a Parliament, could have done and which instead gives the government a broad and indistinguishable delegation, which allows the government to decide on the measure, on the beneficiaries, on the services to the people, on the checks and on the controls. It is a delegation that lasts six months and, if we do four accounts, I think it is difficult for it to be implemented, because the Government will have to agree on four ministries (work, economy, public administration and health). If we then get involved in the holidays and an electoral law that is still and has been framed in the House, I think there really is some difficulty. And why do you come up with such a measure? Probably because someone wanted, in any case, to put a hand on the conscience and give a meaning to their political path in this legislature and also because Istat has communicated that in our country there are more than 8.3 million people in poverty, while there are 4.3 million those in absolute poverty, phenomenon that affects the group of young people in a particular way. Beyond one in four Italians is at risk of poverty or social exclusion; I ask myself and ask the Government: can a political class ever be in solidarity with everyone less than with its people? Well, according to an approximate calculation in this delegation, a donation of about 60 cents per day is expected to be granted to those who are considered poor. By making four accounts, it is about €78.40 less than those €80 of the electoral prebends and it is about €499.40 less than those €500 that had been granted for matters related to the referendum vote. Even more, Madam President, it is EUR 34.40 a day if you say you are running away from a war, and therefore if you are probably a clandestine. The problem of tackling poverty cannot be considered merely an economic stake to be distributed in various ways among those who need it: a large investment plan is needed. Only then can this country grow again. Until December 4, former President Renzi claimed that the sky was blue about our economy, but Istat data say that people are just water soup and you know, President, that when you are very wet it is even easier to attract lightning. I do not know if this House remembers this, but we have adopted a law on negationism. Well, we should also approve of the negation of this crisis. [[Applause from Senators Centinaire and Divine.]] One insists that the crisis is not there, that everything is fine and a crisis that has never been so long and so hard has crossed four governments with four unelected Presidents of the Council, with one last President, Gentiloni (in name and in fact) Silveri who even if he has just begun, will follow the same path until the end of the legislature. This negation perhaps served and serves to trigger confidence in consumers and producers, this was what was needed to end the negative situation and revive development. But that, Madam President, did not happen. The crisis that was to last at most two or three years has instead a frightening longevity and never seen. The fact that the crisis comes from afar and therefore all the blame is placed on the American banking issue has only given an alibi to these four years of useless government. Now we are talking about poverty because perhaps we can no longer do without it, but the oxen are out of the stable, dear Madam President: leave at least the doors open and see if they come even without your help. A few cents a day are useless to cope with poverty. In order to combat it, it is necessary that the work uncertainty that blocks consumption and growth is addressed seriously, other than jobs act, other than vouchers, other than bringing pensions to 80 or 90 years! We go back to 40 contributions and 60 years of age, definitively erasing the Fornero law. In this country, we have very low growth (a little above zero) a rigid labour market, illegal and illegal work, very high taxes with which this huge submerged often justifies itself. Do you know, Madam President, how many new poor people, not to say failures, have been there in recent years because this country is the worst payer in the European Union? Approximately 60 billion is the amount of this State's defaults on the companies that have provided its services. We are talking about companies loaded with taxes and jumps, incredibly ignored when they needed it, especially because of problems related to Equitalia. What economic recovery can we expect under these conditions and how do we combat poverty without growth and growth of GDP and employment? And stop Mr. Boeri announcing every day the need to remake old people to make ends meet. The mission of the INPS and therefore, Mr. Boeri is also to pay pensions. Period. It is also known what happened to these pensions: they are often used to help the children, because the late and tormented pensioner is used as an ATM to the necessity and is made increasingly poorer by the attitude of successive governments, which little attention has been paid to him. I remember some data: 150,000 pensioners have fled abroad, where life is less expensive; more than 100,000 young people have emigrated abroad to find work; the unemployment rate is 13-14 percent, while the youth rate is 40. As for the nautical section, that to make a joke saying that you sunk it is to say little, it has been brought to your knees. If you have a horse worth 1,000 euros and declare it in model 740, it looks like you have Varenne in the barn. [[Applause from Senator Mandelli]] The cars of a certain size ended up on the bisarches all headed abroad. If that is the quality of life we want in the country, very well. If you then have a second home and maybe, to pay the second mortgage, you didn't go for a pizza, you'd better sell it because there are serious tax issues. The construction sector, which was the driving force of the country, has been killed in recent years. We are talking about the fight against poverty despite the impressive lack of attention shown by the last governments - as many as four - to those who at least had some income. With a contribution of 60 cents a day you can afford a coffee and a croissant every four days. [[The microphone is automatically switched off.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-775.ana.u17	Please, Senator Council, finish.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-775.ana.u18	COUNCIL (LN-Aut). Thank you, Madam President, this is the first concession you give me in your new role. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I saw him reading the last paper, and I thought he was finishing. Please, Senator Council. COUNCIL (LN-Aut). I just wanted to say that everything is fine and that everything can be done to make sure the conscience is okay. But doing things right and putting the country in a position to be serious is something else. We're not playing this game, because you could do more and better. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group and Senator Rizzotti]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-775.ana.u19	Senator Lo Moro is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-775.ana.u20	Madam President, first of all, I would like to say goodbye to you and wish you every success in your new role for all of us and this House. I would also like to thank the rapporteur, Senator Annamaria Parente, for her excellent report, and all my colleagues with a majority and a minority (but above all a majority) of the Committee on Employment and Social Security for having made an effort which is certainly commendable from a technical point of view. Although I am not a member of the Commission, I feel it is my duty to intervene today as a Southerner and as a person who, in the performance of various functions, has lived the theme of poverty. I didn't live it on my own skin, but I could almost say it because of the intensity with which I played the role of public administrator and local Calabrian. Anyone in Calabria who governs at regional, provincial or municipal level - I have had this fortune - immediately impacts poverty and, at wider levels, takes note of the existence of very important groups of the population living in precarious situations. The data provided by Istat throws in the face numbers that are certainly alarming, which place Italy in a critical range, even at European level. But I speak to say, in the face of a measure that is correctly described and will be universal in character, that the theme of poverty is an Italian theme, it is a European theme, it is a theme of the crisis but it is, essentially and above all, a southern theme. The data offered to our reflection and which are reported by Istat and sociological surveys of various kinds, speak to us of 28.7 percent for 2015, which is only slightly higher than the figure of 2014, which was 28.3 percent (with an increase, therefore, of 0.4). But this figure, which is already worrying and already places Italy in a delicate position, becomes alarming when it comes to the Mezzogiorno. In the Mezzogiorno, one in two residents is at risk of poverty. The numbers are different. The percentage of 2015 is 46.4% compared to 45.6 percent of the previous year: I repeat that this means that one person in two is at risk of poverty. What does this mean in my eyes? What should I say to this House about the risk of southern poverty? More than one thing. Meanwhile, it means that all levels of politics have not done their duty towards the Mezzogiorno, leaving the Mezzogiorno of Italy in this high and very high degree of risk of poverty, which then combines in many forms, because it becomes a high percentage of young people and women at risk of unemployment. And I want to talk especially about young people who are at risk of unemployment, unemployed or employed in other regions, obviously with further impoverishment of the southern regions. This also means income inequality, because there is obviously an economy in the South, but the gap between those who are at risk of poverty and those who have a medium high or even high income is very high. All this says, first of all, who pays attention to the Mezzogiorno, who lives there (and I live there), but above all the local administrators say so. What is the leap in quality that has been taking place in recent years? It is not that until now no one has dealt with poverty. Yesterday someone spoke of the humanitarian corridors and Caritas, and there is no doubt that the Church has always dealt with the problem, with the canteens organized on the territories, in a charitable way, a concept that, of course, is not politics but belongs to ecclesial culture. But the municipalities have also taken a great deal of care of poverty, but they have often dealt with it with limited resources or they have been badly occupied with it. During the hearings as President of the Commission of Inquiry into the phenomenon of intimidation against local administrators, I found Municipalities, especially in Puglia, then Southern Municipalities, where the economic contributions were distributed in a clientele way to long lists of people who handed them down for years, payments that had nothing to do with the fight against real poverty. Not only that. If we go through the list of decrees of dissolution for mafia of the Municipalities, a phenomenon much more frequent in the Mezzogiorno but which begins to occur also in the North, we will discover that the economic contributions, even the payment of funeral expenses, have been used as support, not to poor families, but often to mafia families. These anomalies are found in many loose municipalities for mafias. So what do we do? To foresee a measure of a universal nature, with rules and also with the possibility of interinstitutional control, not with the removal of local authorities, which would be a serious mistake, because that is where we have the pulse of the situation, but with close cooperation, which also allows cross-checks, is certainly a positive fact. Also because the other situation that has occurred in the face of elements of negativity that I, being proudly southern, have told this House, is that the reaction to these anomalies and to these ugliness was disinterest. Today we are talking about a bill related to the financial, so the path of political culture that led to the creation of this fund has been started for a long time and was precedent. We must combat poverty in an organised and homogeneous manner. Here a reference to Article 3 of the Constitution is proposed and there is a universal character, but equality means giving differentiated answers, because where there is a greater percentage of poor people, obviously the answer will have to be stronger. I do not go into technical details, however, politically speaking, I mean that this "strange week" (strange in my eyes and not in everyone's eyes) which, although there was obstructionism in Parliament yesterday about the measure concerning unaccompanied minors, seemed to be a slow week, on the contrary, a time when so much work has been done, because the issues that have been addressed are dear to me and to the Movement of which I am a part: I am referring to unaccompanied minors, yesterday, and to the fight against poverty, today. In the future we too will be very demanding, even with respect to the Government. On the subject under discussion today there is delegation and the changing things will have to change positively in the battle against social inequalities. Yesterday, in the House, the law establishing 21 March the Day of Memory of the victims of the Mafia was passed: they are among those who twenty years ago had established it informally, as founding member of Libera; Today I note that the state has taken a step forward, and others we will have to take on this issue today, but also on others, because the values that we intend to move forward have to do with many of the work that will have to be done in the coming weeks and months in this House. I am talking, for example, about the law on ius soli and ius culturae, and therefore about the amendment of the law on citizenship which cannot be postponed; I am talking about the new crime of torture, which cannot be postponed further and we do not understand what the obstacle is for this House to vote on the crime of torture. I am also talking about the new criminal trial and, above all, everything that has to do with the inequality between North and South and within the various territories and the battle to ensure that everyone has the same opportunities. And all of this relates to poverty. I use the term "poverty" with difficulty. When, as mayor, I met people who told me that they couldn't get their children to study, I didn't know how to call them poor, because reality sometimes has real names that are difficult to pronounce. We must pay more attention to young people, because it is not correct or in accordance with the constitutional principles that a young person born in the South has less opportunity than one born in the North or that, regardless of this diversification, a young person born in poor families, at risk in terms of social cohesion, has less opportunity. Often, from the point of view of merits, they have even more qualities that would bring them to the top, but the point is that not all young people must be exalted or the best. Future generations must respect them for what they are, we must respect those who do not succeed, we must give the same opportunities to those who do not have particular qualities, but also have the right to live and to be respected by society. Only if it succeeds in doing this can a society be said to be just and consistent with how our constituent Fathers designed it. [[Applause from the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-775.ana.u21	There are the young people from the Istituto scuola "Cardinale Cesare Baronio" in Vicenza and from the Liceo classico "Anco Marzio" in Ostia Lido, in the province of Rome. Thanks for coming. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-775.ana.u22	Senator Bencini is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-775.ana.u23	Madam President, like my colleagues, I also wish you every success in your new job. The draft law under consideration gives a delegation to the Government concerning the fight against poverty, the reordering of the related benefits of a welfare nature and the strengthening of the coordination of interventions in the field of social services. The aim is to introduce a structural measure to combat poverty, i.e. the income of inclusion through the absorption of welfare benefits in a single national measure. The income of inclusion falls within the essential levels of benefits and, therefore, the same benefits will be provided throughout the country through the valorization of programming and territorial governance. However, the delegation must be exercised within six months of the entry into force of the law in question which provides, inter alia, for a second referral to the Chambers in the event that the Government does not intend to comply with the opinions expressed by the parliamentary committees responsible for matters and financial profiles. In this respect, therefore, great care and speed must be taken to ensure that the draft law under consideration, and therefore the income of inclusion, does not remain only on paper, because we all know that the times are a little tight. Just think of what are the data on living and income conditions in our country and, therefore, the population at risk of poverty, according to the surveys and research spread also by Istat. The economic crisis has hit the weakest sections of our country hard, but not only these because the middle classes have also fallen further down. Inclusion income as a single national measure to combat poverty, consisting of an economic benefit and a component of services to the person, must be a political priority on which to pay constant attention. We must therefore achieve an adequate minimum income measure for all those who need it. The measure in question does not determine the financial effects of the legislative decrees nor does it refer the quantification of the charges to the stage of preparation of the delegated decrees themselves which, therefore, are not well determined. However, the limit on expenditure and, in fact, the budget of the Poverty Fund, i.e. the non-honerosity clause, is already identified here. With regard to the first aspect, the audience of those targeted to combat poverty is immediately to be considered, since these measures are identified as essential levels of performance (LEP) to be guaranteed uniformly throughout the national territory. In fact, with regard to the subject of delegation the implementation must take place within the limits of the resources of the Fund for the fight against poverty and social exclusion, with reference and integrated with any economies deriving from the exercise of the second delegation on the reorganization of benefits of a welfare nature. As for the second and third delegates, a non-honerosity clause is foreseen for implementation, which specifies that, for the related obligations, the competent administrations provide through a different allocation of the ordinary human, financial and instrumental resources already provided. There is no indication of the adequacy of the measure; the financial coverage so far is unfortunately not provided for all people in poverty; many, perhaps too many, will remain out of this benefit. This should therefore be further strengthened so that a multi-annual and comprehensive plan can be launched to combat poverty and thus reach the entire population in absolute poverty. Consequently, the careful determination of the audience, of the measure of economic benefit and of the component of services to the person is fundamental as it is necessary to define, with real and concrete application content, a real National Plan for the fight against poverty and social exclusion that gradually extends the measure and its benefits; in fact, today the income of inclusion is not entirely a universalistic measure because unfortunately it is not possible to reach the audience of the poor quantified by Istat. The audience is much wider and includes also the unemployed who are unable to return to the labour market, the people in difficulty in the so-called transitions to work, the young people seeking first employment, the precarious and underemployed who are unable to obtain from the activity an income that can be defined even remotely as such, because despite working, what they earn is not enough for them to lead a dignified life. In addition to the lack of budgeted resources to cover the income of inclusion, another aspect should also be mentioned. It is expected that the beneficiaries, despite the desirable future extensions of the measure, will still be those in poverty and with particularly heavy family burdens, especially with children or disabled children, unemployed elderly people or pregnant women. At present, there is no prospect of an extension of the income of inclusion to a wider audience of beneficiaries. The availability that has been put in place is, for 2017, about one billion and 200 million and one billion and 700 million for 2018: this availability must be evaluated compared to the presumed audience identified as composed of subjects in poverty. In the absence of any indication, however, it is recalled that Istat, in the last report on poverty in Italy (14 July 2016), estimated the total number of subjects in absolute poverty, in about 4,600,000 units and 1,582,000 families in poverty. Of course, it is very easy to detect, against the data on absolute and relative poverty in the country, the insufficient financial commitment unfortunately anticipated, because with 1.2 billion euros for 2017, in spite of the numbers given by Istat, you will not be able to meet all the needs. By saying "the accounts of the servant," dividing the amount allocated to the number of the poor, the quota would be about 260 euros per year for each, which are very few. It is true that then there is a set of parameters that will narrow the scope of the beneficiaries and therefore the quota will be greater, even if for the benefit of a smaller number of subjects. It should also be borne in mind that the measure will have to meet the delegation criterion, for which only part of the resources will be allocated to the economic benefit, while another party will have to finance the services to the person, provided by the network of social services and interventions, referred to in Law No 328 of 2000, through a customized project. The total budget must be deducted from what will be used for the preparation of personalized projects and for the provision of services to the person in question. Therefore, the overall allocation, in relation to financial needs, places the need to calibrate very carefully the quantum - as I said earlier - and the distribution by ISEE income bands of the benefit, in order to ensure that the limit of expenditure is respected. Access to the new measures has a complex construction given by the institutions in the field, the Ministry of Labour and Ski Policies, the INPS, the area districts, Italian Posts each of which has different operating procedures and bureaucracies. On this point too, therefore, we need to be very careful, so that we can coordinate the different levels and respond pragmatically to the needs that arise. There is therefore a complicated mechanism that can make it difficult for the practical application to be made. In addition, it should be borne in mind that it is much more administratively considered that these activation measures should be entrusted to the employment centres and administrative departments, which are already in charge of managing many active policies and numerous work start-ups or job relocations. The employment centre would therefore be the perfect candidate to take on the role of manager of the anti-poverty measure, in particular in order to make it clear that the measure under consideration is not aimed solely at persons permanently excluded from the labour market. Finally, the need to condition the benefits of income integration to specific activation obligations of the entity should not devalue the subject's competences and aspirations. In fact, the balance wants us not to lose sight of the fact that anti-poverty measures have as their basic aim to contribute to the improvement of the living conditions of the person. Consequently, policies to promote the activation of the subject should remain detached from coercive logics, leaving to people the right to choose which path to take, by virtue of the particular needs of a decent standard of living, i.e. to assess concretely the skills and abilities of the beneficiary, his life expectations and previous and not previous working experiences. This is therefore the account of everything that has happened outside and in our debate in the Commission in the referee. Turning to the conclusions, we can say that with the adoption of the draft law under consideration Italy will still lag behind other European countries in the fight against poverty. In all cases, however, I believe that the Government has clear what needs to be done to combat poverty and to implement social redistribution, in order to benefit citizens from a welfare system that responds to actual needs. However, the point remains the same: we need a political will that is often linked to the contingent moment and to the situation given in a certain period of history. In all cases we in Italy believe that having wanted to deal for the first time with the debate on the fight against poverty represents the pragmatic awareness of a concrete problem of our country, which will not end in the near future, but which will unfortunately increase. The delegation law represents a first architectural design, which will need to be improved and modulated according to the challenges facing us in the near future, knowing from now on that what this legislature has produced in the field of combating poverty is not enough. In all cases we cannot fail to welcome this small effort that is being made. I am in Parliament and I feel like a CEO of the citizens... Senator Bencini, I invite you to conclude. Mr Bencini (Misto-Idv). I shall conclude, Madam President. As I said, I am a Member of Parliament but I feel like a CEO of the citizens, but I belong to the structure of the state. I have not given up dreaming and utopia, but politics is also pragmatism. I'm not a CEO of a company, of a company that may have "crills for the head," so I'm not just here to protest, but I'm also trying to make a pragmatic proposal. I'm not here to promise the moon knowing that that moon, in case I had the burden and the honor of ruling, I couldn't give it. To make politics seriously means to try to implement, to make it the best that can be achieved at the given historical moment and at the moment we are now. [[Applause from Senator Maurizio Romani.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-775.ana.u24	She is registered to speak Senator Paglini. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-775.ana.u25	Madam President, I would very much like to begin by recalling a fundamental historical passage for me, written by those who laid the foundations for our Constitution and our democracy: True democracy can only exist where every citizen is able to exercise his personality without hindrance in order to be able to contribute actively to the life of the community, it is not enough to theoretically assure him of political freedoms, but it is necessary to put him in a position to be able to practically serve him. It also adds: And since a very easy experience shows that the economic need takes away the practical possibility for the poor to take advantage of political freedoms and the proclaimed legal equality, it comes as a consequence that true political freedom can only be spoken of in a system in which it is accompanied for all by the guarantee of that minimum of economic well-being, without which it is lacking, for those crushed by misery, any practical possibility of exercising that active participation in the life of the community................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. This was Piero Calamandrei. The synthesis of this high thought is this: every poor citizen is not a free citizen, therefore a democratic state must guarantee everyone a minimum of economic well-being. We are in this legislature working on the most pressing (in our opinion) issue for the country: we are dealing with the issue of combating poverty. In Italy there is a gap between labour flexibility and social security. The unemployment benefit system is complex and fragmented, disorganized and unable to adequately support all unemployed people. Inequality has increased with increased flexibility and insecurity. The welfare system is a failure! We read chilling figures today about the discomfort of our fellow citizens. From 2008 to today, even the number of children below the poverty line has tripled: we are at over one million, and the vulnerability of children is obviously linked to the difficulties of young adults. Fighting poverty means fighting it and winning it. We count poor in all age groups, from young people who are now resigned to emigrate, (given the unemployment rate is 40%) to pensioners in difficulty who are an army. Today we count two million pensioners forced to live with pensions of 500 euros per month, and from this comes the phenomenon of the "grandparents on the run" forced to emigrate from the elderly in order not to die of hardship in their country. But when is one considered poor? Don't say that in this measure! You don't know. You don't give us the parameters. Yet Eurostat provides us with the official indicator of poverty that considers at risk of poverty the person who does not reach 9,360 euros per year (780 euros per month), or who does not receive at least six tenths of 15,514 euros, which is the median income, the income line reached by half of Italian households. So what did we expect from this majority? A shock therapy, a shock therapy in a country like ours that has always invested badly and too little for social inclusion and for the fight against poverty. From this law we expected something important, considering that, together with Greece, we are the only country that has not yet adopted a citizenship income, which is among other things the first proposal of the 5 Star Movement. What has been done during this parliamentary term for all these citizens? Nothing. Today, after four years of legislature, allow me to define ridiculous, ridiculous to the limit of indecency what Mr. Renzi declares, in a television broadcast, that is, the one who has had for three years in the hands of the Italy Country, who said that today serves the "citizen's work" instead of the "citizen's income" because it is the State that should be concerned to train and introduce the citizens in difficulty in the workplace. Ridiculous because we speak without knowing our bill, ridiculous because our measure goes mainly through continuous training and integration into the social fabric in order to activate the person and the internal economy. Maybe Renzi can't read or pretend he doesn't know. It is ridiculous because he continues to speak for slogans, selling more smoke to Italians, who however understood the schizophrenia of a character who in three years has done nothing to guarantee the rights of citizens and that, with the strategy of the hand of the 80 euros (to grab a vote), he has eaten his reputation again since today he takes them back to two million citizens. It requires them back, especially if they have become very poor! Renzi is the real Superciuk! He steals from the poor to give to the rich and still hopes to lead the country. Mr. Renzi has only one thing to do, as he promised: to disappear from the Italian political scene after the failures collected by his reforms deemed unconstitutional, until the miserable attempt to strike the State, which had to pass through constitutional reform. Let us return, however, to the delegation in question. I repeat: it is a bill of delegation and, therefore, to know the details of the measure will have to wait anyway for the arrival of the legislative decrees, which will have to be launched by the Government within six months. Therefore, it will be necessary to wait for the implementing decrees to understand exactly the audience of the beneficiaries, the requirements to be able to access the benefit, as well as how the Government intends to rearrange the benefits and more. Expect an investment of 1.6 billion for 2017 and 1.8 billion for 2018. You know, it's crumbs. The measures designed do not refer to the individual citizen, they are not related to the person. Give priority attention only to families, leaving the individual behind. Here I have to be clear with those who listen from outside: it is serious, very serious, the choice of the majority to give up the contribution of opposition during the stage in the Commission. The majority voted against all the amendments and degraded the same function as Parliament. It was an intolerable forced force for us. Let me say that it is a surreal episode the comment of the majority who evaluated the proposal of citizenship income "highly dangerous" because a family of two adults and two children could even receive 1,630 euros per month. You shouted at the scandal. Too bad it is Eurostat measures and tables, serious and conscientious stuff. Maybe it's better for someone to keep holding onto a meek and servile electoral basin. I wonder if the majority were so upset when they gave billions to private banks or when Renzi burned ten billions for his 80 euro electoral march which is now recovering. This measure - we will never tire of repeating it - appears after more than two years of deliberate stockpiling of our bill on the establishment of citizenship income in the Labour Commission, a shock measure really aimed at resolving the problem of millions of citizens living below the poverty line, suitable for occupational integration and, at the same time, raising the economy and domestic consumption. Instead of playing on the cover of our amendments by making melin in the Commissions, you had to join our effort and find the best way to activate our bill right away. Instead you lost time, starting in 2014 when Italy had adopted the pilot programme for support for active inclusion (SIA). In SIA there was a project of reintegration into the world of work, into the social fabric. Having no reliable data of the monitoring, as 5 Star Movement we started to contact the Municipalities autonomously to know precisely the course of these social projects. We heard everything's broken. The municipalities responded by saying that they had accumulated several delays and that, therefore, everything was still. Therefore, palliative measures have proved to be fallible, unmonitored and unstructured. It's logical: if you don't invest, you can't hope for miracles. Weddings with dried figs can't be done. Your line of resolution to poverty and discomfort follows the SIA, but without adequate investment everything degrades. Your proposal has been filled with good intentions by copying some of the obligations of our citizenship income, but emptying them of resources and, therefore, making them useless. It is a palliative measure because the monthly allowance per family may vary from 320 euros to a maximum of 400 euros, but only if you live in hallucinating conditions: families with dependent children or disabled, with the ISEE bone. A range of requirements is expected at the extreme decrease. There is no identification of the threshold of need. We believe that this measure is totally ineffective in order to really combat poverty. With this bill delegates you pass the hot potato to the municipalities. The same spokesmen of the ANCI in the Commission have clarified the possible difficulties due to the lack of staff and the limits to the expenditure imposed by the rules. People have noted that all your failures, from school, to health care, to jobs act, that you burned 20 billion to give precariousness, vouchers and insecurity, are on your shoulders. Let us remember that the measures to be implemented in the jobs act to stimulate active labour policies and social policies are still waiting for them. The data released by Eurostat have certified that our country is the poorest in Europe: it is a dramatic situation, Madam President. The citizens who live in clear conditions of poverty in Italy are about 11.5 percent of the population, or a total of seven million people living in poverty. These were the priorities for us, Madam President, which had to be resolved immediately. In Europe there are 123 million poor, too many and increasing. In this scenario, if it is not quickly regulated from a redistributive point of view, we will move towards a humanitarian crisis and a significant increase in inequalities. The allocation of resources you invest is absolutely insufficient. The Italians are asking for answers. The people who will benefit from your measure are very few: just 280,000 families, who will have crumbs that will not really put them in a position to live a dignified and free life. Tell us how you can survive with figures of 320-400 euros per month with two dependent children. Madam President, people say they're hungry and someone says: But what's the problem? Give him a little fry of fish! That's the problem. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] I remind everyone that the ISEE is linked to wealth and not to income: your mistake that will penalise hundreds of thousands of real poor. Here we are talking about biblical thirst and as a solution propose a drop in the desert. We simply want to stress that no measure can be universal if it is selective: a measure to combat poverty is universal if it is addressed to everyone, at least to all citizens who are not living a dignified life; among other things, the text does not define poverty either in terms of absolute poverty or in terms of relative poverty. The intention is, therefore, to form categories...
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-775.ana.u26	Senator, please conclude, I've already given you two more minutes than those at your disposal.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-775.ana.u27	Mr Paglini (M5S). Was it ten? PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Yes, and he's already used 12. Mr Paglini (M5S). Thank you, then, Mr President, and I shall begin with the conclusion. Italy really needs shock answers, a Marshall Plan at European level. Before Christmas, Minister Padoan, shaken by the suffering of private banks, found on the nail 20 billion; we of the 5 Star Movement think that suffering is not of things, but of people, and our main duty of citizens and legislators is to ensure that no one stays behind. Be careful, it is not a slogan, but it will be the first thing we will implement in the next five-star government! [[Applause from the M5S Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-775.ana.u28	He's enlisted to speak Senator Marin. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-775.ana.u29	Madam President, if it were not a serious subject, we would have to smile; and instead, it comes from crying by reading the measure with which the left-wing government continues in the wake of the Renzi Government: a text that is absolutely generic and superficial. Those who spoke before me about the Forza Italia Group, Senator Rizzotti, have already reminded us of the numbers: Istat tells us that there are 17.5 million Italians at risk of poverty. The INPS identifies the number in 15 million, but little changes: similar numbers touch everyone's consciences. When one boasts of allocating economic resources of EUR 1.18 billion and shouts at the seven winds, trying to convince people: one should have the modesty to think about how many resources were already in the fund to fight poverty. The increase in resources is ridiculous, so it is not an issue that we want to address. You know what I think of this provision? It seems to me that Matteo Renzi, who wanted to vote in June, presented a measure perhaps using proposals from others, a delegation, then six months to organize. I regret to say that, because we are talking about people in difficulty, but this seems to me an electoral march: we are doing it in February, early in March, we will vote in June, we have six months, then we will see; the resources are not there or we do not know where they are; we have inserted them but then we must find them. In fact, it does not solve the problem that is much more complex. The government did not even have the strength to indicate some numerical data; I remembered before what our Group has already recalled in previous interventions. The problem, however, is in the economy, in taxes, in unemployment. Today Istat reminds us that the overall unemployment rate is still 12% and the youth rate is about 40%. I wonder if all this data is worth: what are we talking about? Are we talking about Law 328 of 2000? It has been seventeen years and the interventions it has arranged have been carried out by the municipalities and the administrations. Or perhaps we are talking not about combating poverty, but about the economic situation that exists, about the real difficulties that exist in this country and that I do not remember why some have already been correctly recalled before? That is the fact. Law 328 of 2000 promotes social inclusion and the fight against poverty, and here too we see the great difference between us and the others in this House, i.e. between a moderate, liberal and reformist force such as ours and the Left forces. The difference is all here: you are for chronic assistance, while we are for assistance that gives autonomy. It is a cultural fact and we claim this strength of ours. Speaking to a Parliament of Members, I hope that someone has been a local administrator. I look above all to the other side, to those who propose: you have done the local administrators. I would like to address the new Vice President, whom I welcome and wish him well: do you know that there are economic and final interventions in the municipalities referred to in Law 328 of 2000? Do you come to a branch of the Italian Parliament to tell us that it is a new measure, that you are thinking of people in difficulty because you quote Law 328 of 2000? We are talking about what all the Councillors do to the social services of Right, Left, Center and 5 Star Movement; all political forces do, there is nothing new, there are no new resources, there is nothing culturally new because your culture is that: it is chronic assistantism. There is not a word about Catholic volunteering that does so much: fortunately there is Catholic volunteering in the municipalities. This government doesn't do anything. You talk about the ISEE without even being able to quantify what its level can be, because so much we disappoint the whole Government. We have already seen it; with the new President of the Council Gentiloni Silveri, while bearing in mind that they are our political opponents of the Left, we hoped that there was not only man at the command, as had happened with Renzi, but your reasoning is the following: delegate us everything, do not discuss, so much we go on like this. I repeat that this is a measure that should be important, because the economic situation in our country is difficult. I am still asking those who wrote the measure; the Government should ask a question concerning the economic interventions aimed at by the municipalities, which fish from that billion referred to in Law No 328 of 2000 (which you have raised from 1.3 billion to 1.18 billion, the difference is more or less this, therefore infinitesimal). How many of those resources go to those who arrive in our country in desperate conditions? Is it helping the poverty of those who have lived in Italy for five, ten or fifteen years? Serious problems must be tackled seriously. I refuse to think that in the Italian Parliament we can be so general and superficial on such an important issue. Go and see how many resources are allocated by Law 328 of 2000, because that is the fund you are talking about. Whether you call it citizenship work or social inclusion income little changes, it's not the initials. I am against the income of citizenship as proposed by the 5 Star Movement, but I recognize that it is a definite proposal. I don't like it because our liberal force thinks that it helps those who are in trouble as they do in a family, but they say to them: I give you three months to help you set you up and sign you up on the placement lists. What example does a father give, in fact, if he can count on a fixed income without working, staying at home with his children? What does it teach, what is the message, the example it gives? There is unemployment and the Government has clearly given no answers. You may seem polemics even though you do not want to be, but the numbers have no political color: the famous jobs act (which we call flops act) did not give solutions to unemployment. We can't deny it. Then a person could say such a thing: you are in trouble, you have children, I want to help you; I do everything I can, otherwise I turn to that Catholic volunteer I was talking about before, because it is better to perceive 300 or 400 euros maybe in the parish to be of help, rather than having a check coming from the State and staying at home to do nothing. Maybe this can happen to both parents, to a couple of two parents with two children: what is the message? It's not ours. We say: we help you, we give you assistance because we lead you to autonomy. In fact, in order to be free, to be able to choose and vote for whomever he wants, a man needs not to depend on someone, on the city councilman, on social services or on political force. We have the courage of our ideas, for that our strength is completely different. Did you go to see the numbers of the municipalities' interventions? This is what we are talking about: let us not tell ourselves that this is the fight against poverty or unemployment. It's nothing. With the delegation to the government there are the same resources as before, it is not even explained how. We are talking about ISEE, which, from my point of view, made sense in the municipal interventions, but it must be clarified, because it is useless to deny us that there are different levels of employment and income in our country. It is clear that it must be specified, because otherwise it becomes chronic welfareism. The desire to be generic and superficial shows that once again - and I regret to think so, but one cannot but think so - all the measures that are coming have this stamp: they are electoral measures. Our country, by not voting and holding up this left-wing government, is postponing the solution of the problems by a year, because you do not even have the political strength to solve them. We culturally know we're different, but you don't have the political strength to deal with problems. Therefore, even to read this provision, especially those who had experience in the Municipalities (maybe just appointed to social services: it seems to me that the new Vice President of the Senate also had a delegation of this type), knows very well that there is nothing written. You can't deny that there's nothing in it. Nothing. It doesn't say anything. On the other hand, we must have the courage to deal with this issue. That's not how you're gonna deal with it. It's so simple: here we talk about tips. First the senator of our Group spoke of 300 euros; she did a span calculation, thinking of those 17,5 million people that Istat (which is not center-right) declares at risk of poverty and that should touch consciences. I believe that Members today - and I am addressing the majority of Members in particular - should raise their hands and say: no, I do not vote for a six-month delegation on such a general matter, because it is too important for our country. You don't have to puff, you don't have to pretend you don't listen, it's no use. It is a shame to deal with the subject in this way. It is a shame to hear people say that politics does not solve problems; they do well if they think that if you make such measures. Genericity, superficiality, nothingness can stand on some issues, but not on a measure that concerns families. Yesterday we passed a bill on minors, while today we are examining and voting on a law on children and families: 17.5 million people are families. We are saying nothing and we are passing on a wrong cultural message: we want to give you an electoral tip. There is nothing to do: this is. Fortunately, our country is made up of decent people and voluntary associations. Again, let us be honest: there will be a difference between social cooperatives and the volunteering of the parish, right? Will there be a difference? I don't blame anyone, I don't judge anything, but those who go to the parish, that volunteer there, that's the volunteering, isn't it? The third sector is so vast, but those who have had social responsibilities in municipalities and cities know that it is different, right? One thing is the job, one thing is the real volunteering. If there were no such volunteering, that this measure penalizes, what would happen? Do you know why it penalizes him? Because it will force them, decent people, to help and to give assistance to people in distress. What we like will be assistance that leads to autonomy. You don't get anything. Chronic welfare, if we're in the government, it's never gonna pass. We are opposed to chronic assistantism and the message that says: we give an income to you and your wife, no problem, no work. So it's destroying this country. These are profoundly wrong measures. You did not write it, but it is clear that they go in this direction, because you do not have the courage to address the issue. That's the truth. We are different and that is why we do not like the provision in our examination. Senator Rizzotti has already spoken on technical issues before me. We do not like this measure, it is culturally wrong and above all - and I conclude, Mr President - it puts its head in the sand and does not solve the problem. It is the usual electoral measure, like that of the 80 euros. The election will come, and then we all help. This is not how you govern a country, it is not dignified for a government compared to people who are in difficulty: 17.5 million people, as Istat says. It's a wrong measure. We are different, we want to help those who need to bring him to autonomy. [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII]] . Congratulations).
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-775.ana.u30	We greet the teachers and students of the Higher Institute of Secondary Education (Alessandro Volta) in Aversa, in the province of Caserta, who have come to visit us. Thanks, guys. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-775.ana.u31	Colleagues, let us continue with the general discussion, which is about to end. She's enlisted to speak Senator Spilabotte. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-775.ana.u32	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, today the first concrete measure to combat poverty, which has always been an important issue, is coming to this House, but never really dealt with definitively by national policy. Unfortunately, we are dealing with different numbers and facts because, compared to a few years ago, there has been an increase in the level of poverty that has also affected that part of the population that is always considered unvulnerable. Thanks to the excellent work done in the Commission, first of all by the group leader and rapporteur of the measure, Senator Annamaria Parente (who I thank, as well as all the colleagues who have worked on it), and to the constant confrontation with the Government we managed to commit the Executive, in view of the implementing decrees of the delegation, to a gradual extension of the resources for the fight against poverty, with the realization of a multi-annual plan and the extension of the beneficiaries. The measure is now financed with more than a billion resources, but the fund will be fueled by every budget law and resources freed from the reorder. It is therefore a measure based both on economic treatment and on the adoption and action of the social services network. As I said, this is the first structural form of income of inclusion for the working-age population who does not have the means to lead a decent standard of living. It is a measure no longer experimental or limited to some area, but of a universal nature and obviously subject to the test of means. With it we aim to increase the income of families, which (it is Istat to tell us) constitute the audience that has suffered the most from the crisis. Almost 6% of families - 4 million people - are in absolute poverty, but 28 percent of the population is likely to fall below the poverty line, thus more than a quarter of the country. The crisis has therefore aggravated old situations of deprivation and social exclusion and has generated new ones. In addition to the growth of absolute poverty, we have witnessed and witnessed widespread phenomena of impoverishment of sections of the population that had not previously experienced a reduction in income and status of this size. We must act decisively before the context deteriorates further. The measures introduced in recent years have proved largely inefficient and ineffective in their episodicity: more resources are needed, but above all structural and continuous measures to take care of and support cases of fragility. The objective is to establish a single measure to combat poverty defined as an essential level of performance to be guaranteed throughout the national territory, universalised and tested through the ISEE indicator. The new measure will bring together and rearrange the current benefits, with the exception of those for self-sufficiency and for the elderly over sixty-five years of age. There has been so much confusion on this subject, and I would like to stress this: in this measure we reorder welfare benefits, not social security benefits. Assistance and social security are two completely distinct things, so it is good to clarify this aspect. The norm then escapes from a merely welfare approach: it aims to overcome the condition of poverty through the social and occupational inclusion of the beneficiaries, who will have, yes, an economic subsidy, but it will be bound to the adhesion to a path of activation, taking charge and accompaniment by the social services of the territory. Alongside monetary provision, therefore, the dimension of services guaranteed by local authorities with the resources of European funds for inclusion plays a decisive role. For this reason, the law provides for a coordinating body on performance implementation, precisely to overcome and avoid any disparities and guarantee access to essential levels throughout the country. In view of the scale of the resources available, intervention will be limited in the first phase to those households most at risk of poverty, those with minor children, pregnant women, disabled people or unemployed people over fifty-five years of age. We will thus reach a substantial proportion of the population in absolute poverty, but it must be clear that the prospect of this measure remains the full implementation of the universal nature of the measure, definitively overcoming the category approach and the gradual extension of the benefit and audience of the beneficiaries through the new resources that will flow into the Fund. Well, it's a step-by-step intervention, it's a first allocation of resources. We will have to continue to intervene. We had to make choices, just as we had to make choices and identify priorities in the previous measures, such as the measure of the baby bonus, for some critics, which led to the pockets of families with low incomes 160 euros per month. For families with three children there is also the third child's allowance and in the law of stability we have provided 100 million for the fight against educational poverty. If we put them all together, we understand that we have set ourselves and we have achieved a great goal: to get one million children out of poverty in Italy. With this measure, Italy finally closes the trial period, but I would like to recall this long journey: since 1998 in 39 municipalities we have experienced the minimum income of integration, thanks to the extension of this measure provided for in Article 23 of Law 328 of 2000 (the so-called Turkish law). It is worth remembering all the stages, because this experience, this new way of thinking about welfare has been erased and reset since 2007, from the introduction of the social card to the over 65, a very critical measure that created stigma and that erased the protagonism of the municipalities with their network of social protection services, which instead we put at the center of the system. Without this you cannot make real inclusion. Another clarification: this is not the income of citizenship and I say it with absolute tranquility and cognition. It's a whole other thing. All over Europe, what exists is the minimum income linked to proof of the means, that is to say, the need to show that you do not have enough income to be able to support your family. This is what happens in all European countries. If it were otherwise, we should explain to hundreds of millions of young graduates, multi-graduates, university researchers who every morning go to work unnecessarily for 40 hours a week, to waste time to earn a poor salary of 1,000 euros: someone would take 750 of them by staying comfortably at home and doing nothing. [[Senator Catalfo's comments.]] On the other hand, I believe that we must never give up the idea that the only instrument that allows social mobility is knowledge and work, and we must continue to act in order to include as many people as possible in the labour market and give them back the dignity they deserve. We arrive then to 2012, with the introduction of the Support for active inclusion (SIA) at experimental level in 12 municipalities, a measure in which we try to give back centrality to social services, until today, with this first important step with the income of inclusion. There is a common thread linking all these actions from the 1990s to today, a common thread that makes us of the Democratic Party particularly proud of all that we have done and because we have been witnesses and protagonists in the various governments that have succeeded these measures, both when we were in the government as PD, and when the government there were the political forces and souls that this party founded it. I feel like thanking for this work that comes from far away in a particular way Livia Turco, for having started and opened the streets to build a new welfare, despite the heavy interruptions that we have suffered in almost twenty years with zeroing of resources for the fight against poverty. We will continue to work with awareness on economic recovery and rising employment levels, but we do not back down on the call for help from those who are ill today. Today we finally close the trial period and arrive at the first structural measure in support of people in absolute poverty: an important day. [[Applause from the PD Group. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-775.ana.u33	Senator Sacconi is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-775.ana.u34	Madam President, I would like to make a few comments to highlight an element of ambiguity that is partly implicit in the draft law delegation and in part, however, it is explicit in the separation between the person responsible for granting the subsidy against a sort of subjective law that is established (this subject is the central State, through the Institute of Social Security) and on the other hand the persons who are responsible for that relationality which is recognized by all as a fundamental instrument for combating the condition of poverty and degradation. However, I want to make a premise. According to many observers and analysts, at this time the expansion of the area of poverty and exclusion would be an inevitable consequence of the fourth industrial revolution. Even recently the cosmopolitan elites, gathered at Davos in the usual World Economic Forum, carried out such an analysis, deducing the need for a guaranteed income to those who, as inexorably excluded, should, on the one hand, consume and, on the other, not disturb. I do not believe - as many, fortunately - that this is a predictable destiny and that the consequence of the extraordinary technological leap we are experiencing is the inexorably exclusion of many. It will depend on the behavior of the decision-makers if the innovation that man has succeeded in producing will resolve against it or if instead, once again, man will prove capable of using the tools that he himself has produced in function of human promotion. What is the way to avoid the inexorable consequence of the enlargement of the exclusion area? On the one hand, economic and labour policies are certainly needed to create an active and more inclusive society, but, on the other hand, social policies that never - I repeat, never - produce the trap of poverty and inactivity, which have not only been scientifically developed on several occasions, but above all tested in experience and experience. My very good vice president Spilabotte has summoned Livia Turco, but I should conjure up with her the bad experiment of guaranteed minimum income (defined inclusion). That experience tells us, in fact, how implicitly dangerous it is to provide aid and how often - unfortunately - the trap of poverty and inactivity is implicit in that delivery. In other words, it tells us how difficult it is to achieve that conditionality that wants the link between the benefit and the actions aimed at including people, subtracting them from a condition of degradation and leading them to a recovery of active life. Precisely because we have behind us an experiment that unfortunately some regions have extended - making it still active even now that we are talking, although it has turned out to be bankrupt - we have a duty to realize the link between the subsidy and the actions, which can be done only in the vicinity, in order to identify poverty and counter it. In fact, only in close proximity - not from Rome - can we determine what the condition of absolute poverty, of degradation is, because poverty and degradation are often linked to a condition of loneliness. With equal income, there may be a condition of inclusion or there may be a condition of terrible exclusion. Often, in fact, the absence of a family environment or a Community context can determine the condition of degradation much more than an income threshold established algidously in Rome. It is in the relational warmth of those close to us that we can identify how to combat poverty. And Mr Marin was very right about this, who referred to it earlier, although in recent days President Berlusconi has slipped into some declaration in favour of a guaranteed income, which always makes you fear solutions of that kind. Therefore, this measure should be clarified in this respect. Does the Government, in the face of proof of the means, therefore, in the face of the definition of a subjective right, plan to grant aid from Rome as a due act anyway? Even if that person lives a condition of degradation, addiction to alcohol or drugs, so it is easy to imagine how the check that comes home will be used? Or instead does this check stop in case the next person (who must be, even before institutional, social) who took charge of that person says not to send him the cheque directly home because the consequences would reasonably be those? Or instead we follow the "nordic" way, of those countries climatically and politically cold, whose welfare I never thought should be imitated, because it did not prevent conditions of widespread degradation, despite arriving in the homes significant cheques? This link needs to be clarified. The link between the granting of the subsidy and the taking charge, even before the Municipality or after the evaluation of the Municipality, of the social subjects who operate in close proximity. Monsignor Bregantini spoke very well about this when, on behalf of the Commission, he insisted so much on the proximity in contrast to the cold central function of the grant. I presented an agenda to the Commission, which was accepted by the Government. The rapporteur has repeatedly talked about proximity, which belongs to her culture and to her life, and has stressed this. It is on this proximity that this measure must be clarified, if we really want it to be useful, beyond the measure of dedicated resources, to increase the widespread capacity in the territories to prevent and counter the phenomenon of poverty and to explain to the elite that poverty is not a destiny that depends only on us, on democratic decision-makers, and that, despite their elite, we can create inclusive societies. [[Applause from the AP Group (Ncd-CpE) and PD.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-775.ana.u35	The general debate is closed.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-775.ana.u36	I call the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-775.ana.u37	Madam President, I begin with non-formal thanks to my colleagues, to my colleagues in the Senate who have presented other draft legislation in this regard. The Committee on Labour and Social Policy has been discussing these issues for many months: we have been enriched in terms of wisdom and also politics. I would therefore like to thank the whole Commission and the technical staff, who have had a lot of patience over the years to bring home the debate on these issues. I'll start with Senator Marin. It is not true that there is no novelty: this is the first time that a uniform national measure is established in Italy throughout the national territory. This is what we said in the report, but many speakers have also taken it up: a person in difficulty, especially in the South, will be treated in the same way as a person in difficulty in the rest of Italy. Since there has been talk of study here (someone said "studiate" ), I think that with this measure we attack absolute poverty. I would like to remind this Parliament, and also the citizens and citizens who will benefit from this allowance, that absolute poverty is a measure based on the monetary assessment of a basket of goods and services considered essential to avoid forms of social exclusion. The reference unit of the basket is the family, considered in relation to the characteristics of the individual components, their specific needs (e.g. nutritional needs), and any economies of scale or savings that can be achieved as the family composition changes. The essential needs have been identified in an adequate diet, in the availability of a home of a size appropriate to the size of the household, heated, equipped with main services, durable goods and accessories, and in the minimum necessary to dress, communicate, inform, move in the territory, educate and maintain good health. As a result, the basket consists of three macro-components (food, housing and residual), whose monetary valuation was not carried out at the absolute minimum price, but at the minimum price accessible to all households, taking into account the characteristics of the offer in the different territorial realities. The monetary value of the overall basket was obtained by direct sum of those of the different components and corresponds to the absolute poverty threshold. So with this measure we turn to the citizens and citizens of our Italy most in difficulty. What do we tell you, colleagues of the 5 Star Movement: are these empty words? There is a check that is an income, but it is also service. Senator Lo Moro is right when she listed the risks of a check without services, an income without accompaniment, especially in Southern regions where there is mafia and camorra. How can we make sure the check doesn't go to the camorrist or the mobster on duty? We are trying not to do this with this measure. President Sacconi said that the grant must really be included in a coherent path of effective inclusion. Well, the Commission's work has had so much debate on this, and there has been the approval of its agenda which goes in this direction, as President Sacconi recalled. I would like to say to Senator Divina that when he calculates the cents, it is not fair, because the measure is proposed - we said yesterday explaining the provision - to cover, among families in greatest difficulty and absolute poverty, first and foremost those with children, so it will be a gradual measure that will tend to the universal. We turn to families with children because it is very difficult to intercept; as some of my colleagues said, poverty is complex. And we cannot afford one thing: that poverty becomes hereditary. That is why we are primarily addressing families with children. We cannot afford this, because the first poverty is that of rights. And we with the cheque that we give to beneficiaries and people in difficulty must help to express the skills that there are in families. He used to mention Amartya Sen. This is the deepest meaning of this provision; when you take a check you have to help families, people in difficulty to spend money, to send their children to school and to the pediatrician, as we said before. We therefore intervene on the eradication of poverty and not on the general distribution of income, and here we are also dealing with a major issue that is the inequality of outcomes. It reminds us, in a beautiful book on inequality, Anthony Atkinson, the great economist who recently disappeared, when he says that the inequality of outcomes is very important, in the same way as the inequality of the conditions of departure because accidents, stumbles, job losses, diseases, separations can happen in life and when families and people do not make it they must be helped. In order to do this and so that this measure brings together universal and uniform measures throughout the territory and proximity, as President Sacconi said, as a majority I address the Government: it is necessary and fundamental to find resources to strengthen the services. We know that part of the resources will go in this direction, but they are needed and need much more. All the European aid, including European funding, must go in that direction because our operators and operators of social services and employment centres must be given the opportunity to express that relational warmth and, as is technically said, take charge of people. From the point of view of heat, this means taking them by the hand and taking care of them. In this there is all the theme of the huge work that makes the third sector. Not only Catholic volunteering, as he recalled, but the whole third sector. This issue is strengthened in the delegation direction; the third sector as a key player in putting services really in a position to reach the beneficiaries. Finally, I would like to focus on citizenship income. My fellow Senator d'Adda has noted well the difference that you are dealing for citizenship income. I would like to say one thing to my colleagues in the 5 Star Movement, with whom there has always been a healthy and important dialectic in the Commission. If you want to go to the government, I think you must first - perhaps I say a strong word that has been mentioned - study the resources necessary for the measures you propose. The voices to be drawn from the income of citizenship are often generic or rather dubious. One out of all; the second text on citizenship income, presented to the Commission, proposes a reduction in the tax exemptions and deductions contained in the annual tax expenditure report. Well, this coverage is likely to affect the exemptions and deductions which concern, among others, the protection of income from self-employment, retirement income, family income, health, disadvantaged persons, artistic and cultural heritage, research and the environment. It is not specified in the cover how this can be avoided. I shall conclude, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, by recalling that utopia has been mentioned. I think that utopia must always be the basis of politics. Our utopia today is to apply the Constitution and ensure that our country's most needy citizens and citizens are helped. Our utopia is to look into the eyes of the need and help to get out of poverty of income, culture and discomfort. This is our utopia. [[Applause from the PD Group. Senator Crosio jokingly throws a paper ball at the address of the stands.]] President. - I call the Group of the European People's Party I call the minority rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-775.ana.u38	Mr President, I would like to begin my reply by saying strongly to the House that if in Italy the fight against poverty and social exclusion has become a central point in the parliamentary debate it is only due to the 5 Star Movement. Not only do we say this, but Caritas recognizes it in its report, civil society and all those who are concerned with combating poverty and social exclusion, which are outside Parliament. If in Italy, here and now, even today we are talking about poverty and we are facing this measure - which is unfortunately only a "topolino" compared to the demands dictated - alas - by inequality, the enormous flexibility of work and the crisis occurred in Italy - is due to the 5 Star Movement. [[Applause from the M5S Group. Ironic applause from the PD Group. Senator Albano's comments.]] In my reply, I would also like to thank the President of the Commission, Mr Sacconi, for his comments on a trial of the past, which was much more ambitious than what the Government is doing. A report containing the study of the impact of this measure on the poor population was then made on this trial, called the minimum income for inclusion. The experiment was carried out in six municipalities in the North, 11 municipalities in the Centre and 22 municipalities in the Mezzogiorno. Among the most critical issues, there is a low share of work placement activities. I would remind the House - and I share this information with those who did not know this - that the minimum income for inclusion was managed by the social services of the municipalities, in collaboration with the third sector, by preparing a personalised integration project: therefore nothing changes compared to the general criterion provided for in the measure presented today by the Government in the Assembly. Well, the same report on the minimum income of inclusion (which I invite you to read, because it is in the proceedings of the Chamber of Deputies), says that it was a failure measure, because it did not invest in social services, the personalized project could not be done and the employment was not there, except in very few cases in Northern Italy. Therefore, in the light of its effects, it is certainly not a measure to be able to look at, but the government and the majority, blind and deaf, propose one completely the same. I call the majority blind and deaf for a real motivation, that is because we have been trying to bring this issue to the centre of the debate for four years, in the Houses and in the Parliamentary Commissions. It has been years in which, however, we did not want to discuss these measures, so much so that our proposal on citizenship income, to which also the majority's drafts of law (which are quite similar to the measures proposed by the Government) have remained dead letter, closed in the Commissions. I said, however, that perhaps it is in the power of the majority to close the parliamentary debate, to close their eyes and pretend that there are no 4.6 million Italian citizens in Italy, in a state of absolute poverty, and 9 million at risk of poverty. What, then, does the Government do? This Government, this rapporteur and this majority, after the transition to the Chamber, block and close the parliamentary debate on the draft law delegation and do not allow any modification to the provision that, I repeat, contains some general criteria and respond to the problems already contained in the experimental measure, much more ambitious, which was the minimum income of insertion. Not only that, it is going to be again critical that Istat had already highlighted about a bill, proposed by the majority and never discussed because combined with our bill on citizenship income, which proposed the ISEE and which concerned, however, an appropriation of 1,300 million euros (Istat itself, in its memoirs, says that it cannot and cannot deal efficiently and effectively with poverty in Italy). I am talking about the bill No 1919 and Istat's memoirs are filed with the Senate's work committee. Let's go back to the citizenship income that we talked about and wanted to talk about. I invite everyone to study why what the majority proposes I study it all the time and it is right that it does so: the study, I examine it, I make my observations and I try, from the opposition, to bring into the debate (it is hoped constructive but here there has been no debate) observations even constructive. So, when I invite you to study, I do it because everything has been said about the bill on citizenship income. This bill was also written on the basis (and therefore studying) of what had been done in Italy in the past and of what all other European States have done, trying to make improvements to the bankruptcy measures of the past. What is citizenship income? It is not an income that is taken into account if you stay at home "in the crotch" to turn your thumbs: it is an income - I repeat I hope for the last time, so we avoid using it to campaign against the poor and the people who are in poverty - strongly conditioned by the poverty line. The poverty risk threshold indicated refers to the Eurostat indicator, a 2010 European Parliament resolution and the Istat data contained in the country's condition report, delivered to the Chamber of Deputies in 2014. This is the poverty risk threshold identified by the 5 Star Movement. The income of citizenship would therefore be conditioned by the threshold of risk of poverty, as I have defined it, and strongly conditioned by the activation of the person. What does the person have to do? Retraining, training courses, active job search, small jobs for the community, but not exclusively socially useful jobs. Why do we not want all the hours to be spent in socially useful jobs? Because in the countries and cities of the South where the experimentation of the minimum income of integration still exists, as can be seen from the Commission's report, one of the critical aspects of the minimum income of integration was the work of communities, which made these people stay forever, and still today, in the cage of poverty. Here, if you go to these countries where there is still a minimum income for inclusion, you would realize that these people are still in the cage of poverty doing community work. So we had proposed, instead, important investments, because we realize that if we do not make important investments in active labour policies, in employment services, in social services (and therefore we do not do what the rest of Europe has done on active labour policies), these types of measures become, as has become the minimum income of integration, the definitive cage of poverty. We do not want this; we want an Italy that will recover and be able to bring its citizens back to the centre of Italian work and to the centre of dignity. I want to add one more thing to the covers. You always have to read, because I've heard about all the colors on the covers. I have here the sheet on the covers and they are all listed: they are about twenty. Senator Parente talks about a coverage of about a billion that concerns simply the deductibility for incomes above 120,000 euros; instead here we talk about 15 billion euros. Let's be careful when you say things. I would like the Government and the President of the Budget Committee to explain to me in this context why the Budget Committee considered the many amendments of the 5 Star Movement inadmissible. Above all, I would like to be told why amendment 1.57 was not admissible, which, according to the 5 Star Movement, provided for funding and, therefore, a greater resource to be included in the Fund for the fight against social exclusion and for the poor for EUR 2 billion and which, even, the Ministry of Economy - I read in the report - amounts in 2017 to 2,183 million, in 2018 to 2.838 million and in 2019 to 2.838 million. I am talking about Amendment 1.57. Doing things in a hurry, going fast - from this you understand that your first point is not really the fight against poverty, but simply a constraint in which you found yourselves because the 5 Star Movement loudly in these four years carried out this debate - and saying no to all the proposals, even the constructive ones of the 5 Star Movement, you have made sure that in Italy the poor do not have 2,183 million euros. This is one of the many covers proposed by the 5 Star Movement. [[Applause from Senator Bulgarelli]] CARDINALI (PD). Stop! It's a rally. CATALFO, minority rapporteur. The fight against poverty is not just a political issue; it is not a debate that must be opened up to pursue its political primacy; it is a necessity. We of the 5 Star Movement know the need well because we carry it on the shoulders. I say this with my heart: years and years of working with poor people, years and years of despair in the heart deserve a battle in this Parliament so that an issue like this really becomes a priority. I should like to end by repeating what was said yesterday: the European Commission, on the European pillar of social rights, says that the majority of Member States, but not all, provide a minimum income to people in poverty or at risk of poverty who do not have other means of subsistence. However, current problems include inadequate performance, which does not allow beneficiaries to escape poverty, reduced coverage and failure to obtain such support due to the complexity of the procedures. Undersecretary and Government, you are implementing a measure that has all these characteristics. [[Applause from the M5S Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-775.ana.u39	I call the representative of the Government.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-775.ana.u40	Mr President, I would just like to make a few brief comments. I would like, on the one hand, to avoid high-sounding tones; on the other hand, not to pursue the dialectical arguments that have been put forward, but to recall only a few essential points of this measure which, because of the way in which it was born, has developed, and for the attention that the parliamentary assemblies have devoted to it, it certainly represents a turning point, an element of discontinuity with respect to the past. The discontinuity is found in two elements, the first of which is the fact that the resources for combating poverty have gone from funds provided for by measures of a one-off experimental nature to structural resources. I believe that this is an appreciable figure on the part of everyone. One wonders whether the resources, 1.7 billion, planned for 2017 are many, few, sufficient or insufficient. In the meantime, I'd say it's a lot compared to what previous governments have done. Are they sufficient to cover all potential recipients of this measure? They are not, we know that, but, on the other hand, the nature of this measure is to be both structural and gradual, that is to say, it achieves the objective that has been set out at a defined time. What's the target? Give income protection support and personalised social, work and educational integration plans to those 4.5 million people that Istat has certified to be in the state of absolute poverty. The rapporteur, Mrs Parente, has already mentioned what is meant by the state of absolute poverty, i.e. what are the benchmarks. I would also add that if you take the criterion of the income of the ISEE, i.e. the proof of the means, of 3,000 euros, the accounts come back, so even if we look at the audience of the subjects with a maximum ISEE of 3,000 euros we realize that they correspond substantially to those 4,5 million people that Istat classifies in a state of absolute poverty. Therefore, our goal is to achieve first of all these subjects, which are those most excluded both from income and from social, relational and educational opportunities, as from the construction of a dignified life. It is true, as has been pointed out, that Eurostat tells us that about a quarter of the Italian population is in a state of risk of poverty, but this measure obviously does not concern those people. The action of the Government and Parliament must be directed towards generating conditions of development and growth that ensure that the income of those people who do not rush to the stage of absolute poverty, but rather arrives at an improvement, an increase. I do not have time to remember this here, but obviously the Government has implemented a whole series of measures that push in that direction. However, let us not confuse pears with apples: even if we are always talking about poverty, we are now focusing on this population. In this sense - passing to the second observation - with 1.7 billion the measure tends to reach a total of 1.77 million people, that is the potential beneficiaries that correspond to the new criteria SIA for 2017, of which to the decree signed by the minister Poletti and waiting for the signature of the minister Padoan; I remember incidentally that the SIA is the previous instrument called Support for active inclusion. These criteria are wider than those applied in 2016 and give us a potential audience of recipients of about 1.77 million people, i.e. about 40 percent of those 4.5 million people, if you remove those already covered by social security that we will achieve with this measure. I would point out that of these 1.77 million people, 800,000 are minor. In fact, as the rapporteur, Mrs Parente, has already mentioned, we intend to concentrate the criteria by targeting resources in particular towards children, because statistics show that at the beginning of the crisis in 2007 absolute poverty was concentrated in the age group from sixty-five years old up, while from 2015 onwards it focuses mainly on the area of children, which have an absolute poverty rate of 40% higher than the general average. It is therefore a choice that obviously wants to combat the principle or reality of a poverty that becomes hereditary and that does not want to depress the future in particular young generations and children, because what is not done in that age then you carry it all your life. This is therefore the crucial element. Up to now 230,000 people have already been covered; 65,000 applications have been accepted for a total of 230,000 people, i.e. only 30 percent of those who have already been examined. Obviously the process is underway, in the sense that the setting up of an instrument, which should become ordinary with the delegation and implementing decrees through the income of inclusion, will allow us to reach this potential audience. I then meet with Senator Catalfo in a year to see if this measure will retrace the limits of the past instruments or if it will be able to reverse the trend. Of course, I am convinced that he can do that. I would like to make one final point. Senator Sacconi has rightly recalled that a non-algida, bureaucratic measure is needed, but that it has a relational warmth. It is no coincidence that the measure, as the rapporteur has already mentioned, and many interventions, has two levers: the first is income integration, the second - just as important - is that of personalised plans that go hand in hand with income protection. The subjects who manage these two levers are different: one is the INPS and the other the social services of the municipalities in collaboration with the organizations of the third sector. Clearly, we should find a way to work together. Already today I would like to remind you that the person who subscribes to the application also undertakes to adhere to the customized plan that must be submitted and countersigned within sixty days of the time when the measure is granted. This will have to become an ordinary rule and it is clear that the role of local actors will be essential, i.e. those who are closest to the citizens who are in this difficult situation. In this sense, I would also like to remind and reassure the rapporteur that in relation to the NAP, the social inclusion plan managed by the Ministry of Labour, which is worth about one billion, the absolute priority destination of these resources will be precisely in strengthening the services on the territory, the centres for employment and social services of the Municipalities, so as to ensure that this measure, fundamental in order to get people out of a state of poverty and not deliver them after a state of assistance or welfare, becomes a concrete practice, real and widespread throughout the country, from Bolzano to Caltanissetta. Therefore, 500 million have already been taken into account and projects have already been submitted by the local institutions and, therefore, there is absolutely the resources to ensure that this measure is not a declaration of principle and that this practice is not a generic evocation, but is supported by the ordinary and daily work of local institutions, municipalities, and third sector organisations. Therefore, it is an ambitious but also realistic challenge both for the resources put in place, for the cooperations and collaborations that have been built and for the fact that we actually take an innovative path. Now, perhaps, we need not so much to look back or evoke the dangers, but rather to speed up the step and ensure that, after this Assembly has approved the measure, the Government and the Ministry quickly ensure the legislative and implementing decrees of the principles of delegation that are contained there to ensure that those results that I have now mentioned are not an announcement, but a reality. I am convinced that the road is possible and, if there is determination, conviction and the deployment of all capacities, not only of administrations, but also of third sector organisations, the result will be achieved. [[Applause from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-775.ana.u41	I would like to inform you that the Presidency - and I am in distribution - has received the opinions of the 1st and 5th standing Commission on the draft law under consideration and the amendments, which will be published in an annex to today's report.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-775.ana.u42	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-775.ana.u43	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-775.ana.u44	TONINI (PD). Mr President, I asked to speak briefly only because Senator Catalfo has made some polite but significant criticisms of the work of the 5th Commission, which has frankly surprised me, partly because I believe that in the Commission the amendment tabled by the 5 Star Movement Group, at the first signature of Senator Catalfo, was the subject of a very careful assessment by the Commission and the Government. We asked the Government, as we always do, to act to produce a technical report so that the discussion in the Commission was supported as much as possible by technical evaluation elements. In the first place, when we gave our opinion on the Commission's work, we had to express - as is the Commission's established practice - a contrary opinion under Article 81, for the absence of a technical report. The Government has, however, committed itself - as is the systematic practice of the Commission, when a Group requires further consideration of an amendment considered particularly important - to produce a report. In fact, at the next stage, when the Commission's work on the substance had already been completed and therefore, if anything, the opinion should have been noted for the House (but since it is a related one, the amendments rejected in the Commission cannot go to the Chamber and therefore, undoubtedly, out of time for comparison here, even if I imagine that the comparison on this subject will have to continue), we have, in any case, acquired a technical certification of some importance in the proceedings of our parliamentary work. The General Accountant of the State, in the note signed and produced in the Commission on 22 February last, wrote that, considering that the amendment as a whole presents different technical inconsistencies in terms of regulatory and temporal references, uniting in a heterogeneous way components of different measures, it is expressed contrary, as the measure generates significant new and greater burdens on public finances not contained in a limit of expenditure as indicated in paragraph 105, since they are of charges assessed in the presence of a subjective right; the relevant burdens are structural in character, are indicated by the same amendment to a greater extent than 16 billion euros annual, also signaling the absence of the appropriate technical report, in order to verify the appropriateness of such assessment, which could be underestimated. I say this to point out that the work, which has been done seriously, must of course continue. The political confrontation is open in Parliament and in the country and I believe that these documents make us make progress from the point of view of technical awareness, since the political confrontation, which is of course free, needs to be realized always in a real instrumentation, so that the confrontation between us can be at the same time loyal and realistic. [[Applause from the PD Group and Senator Fucksia.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-775.ana.u45	Thank you, Senator Tonini, even for your remarks.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-775.ana.u46	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-775.ana.u47	What would you like to intervene on, Senator Bulgarelli? We can't do replicas of replicas.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-775.ana.u48	BULGARRELLI (M5S). If Senator Tonini, just because he is the President of the Budget Commission, can intervene not to express opinions of the Budget Commission, but to respond to the intervention of Senator Catalfo, I can intervene to reply to Senator Tonini. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]] Otherwise, you don't know why you're gonna intervene.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-775.ana.u49	We will do it on a next occasion, at the right time, which is not this.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-775.ana.u50	BULGARRELLI (M5S). Then it wasn't even Senator Tonini's time to intervene.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-775.ana.u51	The President of the Commission, when I say that an opinion he has drafted is being distributed, I believe he has the title to supplement it.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-775.ana.u52	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-775.ana.u53	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-775.ana.u54	Montevecchi (M5S). Mr President, without any controversy, this is a Parliament which is also a Member of this House, and you have given the floor to Senator Tonini as President of the Commission to express opinions which you have not expressed, since you have replied to Senator Catalfo, a minority rapporteur, on one point. I therefore believe that, in order to be fair - and I repeat that I do not want to be controversial - the word should be given either to Senator Bulgarelli, who had asked for it, or to the minority rapporteur Catalfo, to debate the matter again. Otherwise, there is always a last word that is not exhaustive for a debate that should be concluded with the possibility to point out that Senator Tonini probably referred to something different from what Senator Catalfo was talking about. This would be to the benefit of the correctness of the information and of those who, through the reading of our synographical reports, would have liked to understand how the debate has evolved in this House.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-775.ana.u55	Senator Montevecchi, I believe that there will be at least one, two or maybe three sessions in which we will return to take care of the provision, so there will be all the space to carry out an endless series of deepenings. Colleagues, I inform you that the Presidency has received a request for an early closing of the session at 12.30 a.m. to allow the People's Area Group to hold its own national leadership. In accordance with established practice, these requests are accepted. Since we should now turn to the explanation of the amendments - the size of which is rather full-bodied, being a single article - if necessary, I shall refer the continuation of the debate on the draft law to another sitting. I take this opportunity to call Senator Crosio, because I have been told of a gesture on his part, which was probably meant in terms of sympathy, but respect for the behaviour that must be held in this House makes me express a note of censure towards him.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-775.ana.u56	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-775.ana.u57	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-775.ana.u58	VACCIANO (Mixed). Mr President, I would like to point out that in October 2016 the 6th Commission (finance and treasury) fired in the deliberating session a measure to combat the financing of anti-personnel mines and cluster bombs. This measure has therefore passed to the other House and lies there for several months now, considering that we had already completed the examination in July, the measure was reassigned to us in deliberating and then arrived at the House and stopped there. I would remind myself that this measure, which, among other things, comes from a majority bill, which has, however, been substantially rewritten by all the parliamentary groups and has been adopted unanimously in the Commission, we inherited it from the last parliamentary term. The paradox is that in the last legislature something very similar has happened to what is happening now: the provision had been approved in the legislature in the House, but once arrived in the Senate the legislature ended and everything began again, this time in the Senate. I believe that it is necessary for the presidency of the Senate to take an active part in urging the other branch of Parliament to make a prompt timetable for the measure in the Commission, perhaps once again in the deliberations (just because the measure is widely shared, it has been approved and dismissed unanimously in the deliberations) so that the examination can be resumed as soon as possible and proceed until its conclusion. If this happened again in the last parliamentary term, which meant that after eight years we lack legislation on combating the financing of anti-personnel mines, I think it would not only be a shame for this Parliament, which still fails to fully implement the Oslo Convention, but also for the whole country. I sincerely ask that the presidency of the Senate should take care of a reminder to the other side of Parliament so that the examination of this measure can be completed as soon as possible. [[Applause from the Mixed Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-775.ana.u59	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-775.ana.u60	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-775.ana.u61	PETRAGLIA (Misto-SI-SEL). Mr President, I simply take the floor to continue the relay that the Senators of the Italian Left have decided to start by asking the Government to schedule as soon as possible the date of the two social referendums, in response to a request made by more than three million citizens. The total silence of the Government and the absolute forgetfulness of identifying the date is a really serious and even more serious fact are the statements that we read in these days of the Minister of Labour Poletti - evidently light years away from the working reality - who says to think of a change of the law leaving the vouchers only for family work. We would like to remind Minister Poletti that nursing and domestic work, among other things, is a purely female job and, unless he has decided to condemn the precariousness, once again, of women, it is a wrong act. These days the story of a Modena worker who has reached the age of retirement is news, but since the last years of his contribution derive, unfortunately, from work paid with vouchers, the INPS does not recognize the achievement of the retirement age. In the face of a social scourge now open in the country, we believe it is important to identify the date of the referendum for the abolition of vouchers and to regularize and make sure contracts. The externalisation of services operated by local public authorities has made working conditions more precarious both in terms of work and for the atrocious violations that workers often suffer by accepting precarious jobs. It is therefore a duty of civilisation to refer to responsibility for procurement (i.e., often, local authorities, the State and public administrations in general). That is why we are calling for the date for the referendum to be set as soon as possible and for the citizens to be given the floor. [[Applause from the Misso-SI-SEL Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-775.ana.u62	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-775.ana.u63	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-775.ana.u64	COUNCIL (LN-Aut). Mr President, perhaps this has always been the case, but it seems to me that lately politicians who do what is promised in the election campaign are to be fought in the most absolute way. Of course, consistency is absolutely not good in a world, such as the political world, where it is rare commodity. The governor of the Lombardy Region, bringing to completion what he promised in the electoral campaign, from 1 February last reduced the health tickets for visits and specialized exams, bringing them from 30 to 15 euros. We're talking about very important tests, like C.T., ultrasound, and MRI. What does the government do? It puts itself across and in all probability will force the Lombardy Region to suspend the reduction of the sanitary tickets. We are talking about 230,000 medical benefits and visits, for a total of about 1.5 million Lombards who, in a year, would have benefited from the measure. I would also like to mention other attention given by the Lombardy Region to the health sector. I remember that 70 percent of the recipes were already exempt from the so-called super ticket. I wonder, Mr President, whether such a strong attitude on the part of the Government is ever possible, which requires a region to review its own decision. Perhaps we should remind the government that on 4 December last it lost the referendum and that health skills remained at the head of the region. Despite the slaps taken by the Regions by the last three or four successive Governments, the Lombardy Region has managed to reduce taxes - of this we are talking - and to affect measures that fell directly on the lives of citizens. At this point we wonder if the Lombardy Region is right to appeal to the Constitutional Court to protect the interests of Lombard citizens. Perhaps, never, as at this time, the political attitude of the Lombardy Region that, also through the action of the North League, promotes the values of autonomy, is again relevant. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-775.ana.u65	On behalf of the Assembly, I greet the teachers and students of the Higher Institute of Secondary Education "Sandro Pertini" in Afragola, in the province of Naples, who are witnessing our work, unfortunately in the process of closure. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-775.ana.u66	The motions, questions and questions received by the Presidency will be published in Annex B to today's report. I remember that the Senate will come back to meet in public today, at 4 p.m., with the agenda already printed and distributed. The sitting was closed at 12.30 a.m.
