ParlaMint-IT_2017-04-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-807.ana.u1	The sitting is open (9.05 a.m.). The Minutes shall be read. Mr Frevezzi, Secretary, read the Minutes of the afternoon sitting of the previous day.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-04-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-807.ana.u2	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-04-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-807.ana.u3	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-04-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-807.ana.u4	MARTELLI (M5S). Mr President, I would like to ask for the vote on the Minutes, subject to a quorum check. Verification of quorum
ParlaMint-IT_2017-04-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-807.ana.u5	I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators, by electronic procedure. (The request is supported). I therefore call on the senators to make their presence known by electronic means. (Follows the quorum check.) The Senate has a quorum. Resumption of the debate on the Minutes I put the Minutes to the vote. It's approved.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-04-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-807.ana.u6	The list of senators on leave and absent on assignment received from the Senate, as well as further communications to the Assembly, will be published in Annex B to today's Minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-04-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-807.ana.u7	I would warn you that qualified votes can be taken in the course of today's sitting by electronic means. Therefore, from this moment the period of 20 minutes from the notice provided for in Article 119, paragraph 1, of the Regulation (9:09 hours) begins.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-04-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-807.ana.u8	The next item is the statement by the Minister for Foreign Affairs and International Cooperation on the situation in Syria. I call the Minister for Foreign Affairs and International Cooperation, Mr Alfano.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-04-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-807.ana.u9	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I consider today's information to be particularly timely, following the G7 foreign elections largely dedicated to Syria. After the American military response against the bases from which the attack on civilians in the city of Khan Shaykhun began, it was evident to all that the issue of the Syrian conflict was to be dealt with with with the highest priority and urgency. In fact, the Syrian issue has been addressed both in the context of the G7 itself and in the extraordinary meeting that we convened yesterday, namely a G7 extended to the Gulf countries, Turkey and Jordan. This is the first time that a G7 of Foreign Ministers has expanded the discussion to include non-member countries on a subject such as Syria. This initiative, which we wanted to take in the knowledge that the American response, proportionate, motivated and understandable, opens a window of opportunity to be seized to pursue the political solution and relaunch negotiations under the leadership of the United Nations. This is also in the light of the fact that the American administration seems determined to play again a leading role in a chessboard from which the United States had a little 'defiled and also in the awareness that the American response puts us in front of the need to avoid a military escalation and put diplomacy at the center of the game. I must tell you that the two meetings that I chaired in Lucca, the G7 and the enlarged format, have also revealed different sensitivities towards Russia. However - and certainly - it will be necessary to ask Putin to put pressure on Assad to respect the ceasefire in a real, effective and lasting way and to set the minimum conditions for the relaunch of the negotiations. This, however (this is the line also coming out of the G7), without antagonizing or putting in the corner Moscow. This diplomatic action towards Russia, which is currently taking place in Moscow, the American Secretary of State Tillerson is led in the awareness of Russia's inescapable role in Syria and in the recognition of its strategic interests in the country. We continue not to believe in military solutions to the conflict and have been among the first to say that a political solution requires the involvement of Moscow. However, we are also convinced that Russia alone is unable to promote a credible and sustainable political transition in Syria, and that this serves the counter-balance of the United States, which remains our main and irreplaceable ally in the region and the world. Every crisis, ladies and gentlemen, presents a few opportunities. In this case, the best opportunity is to re-launch the negotiations in a concrete way. You know that the so-called Astana process has not produced the desired results, starting with the main results hoped for, namely a lasting ceasefire, and that what was incardinated in the Geneva Communiqué has also stalled. So far the negotiations have not yielded concrete results, because Assad was convinced that no one would force him to make concessions and that his military victory was within reach. It has not produced concrete results because the opposition demanded everything and immediately without having the military means to impose itself, and now the Russians are in a situation not favorable, and with a partner, that is Assad, unpredictable and discredited; a partner that put them in trouble and without having a true exit strategy (nor at this time nor of Assad) and with the risk for Russia to face the reconstruction alone. The Russians have actually, to some extent, already advanced the idea of pursuing negotiations on a new constitution and possibly on new elections, but so far Assad has stalled with Iranian support. Now it could be a good time to make it clear to the Russians that if they really force Assad to negotiate on both issues and more to bring humanitarian aid to civilians, then the West could work with them for a shared political solution under the aegis of the UN and, at the same time, fight together against Daesh. Moreover, when, in August of three years ago, there was the chemical attack on Ghouta, specifically in Ghouta East, the Russians forced Assad to admit that he had chemical weapons and to destroy a thousand tons of them. Today we have a new opportunity to convince them exactly to put pressure on Assad so that he makes concrete and sincere political concessions. In the course of the diplomatic action in Lucca, we felt it appropriate to keep in touch with another inescapable actor in the Syrian scenario, namely Iran. On Monday I took the opportunity of a telephone interview, which my counterpart Zarif had asked me, to urge Iran to exert all its influence on the Syrian regime so that new attacks on civilians would be avoided, the chemical weapons removed completely and the ceasefire guaranteed. Mr Zarif, whom I should also refer to today, also agreed that the use of chemical weapons constitutes a war crime, assuring support for an international commission of inquiry led by the United Nations on the recent attacks on Khan Shaykhun, a committee of inquiry which, of course, Italy supports, although in the past, as indicated by the Organization for the Prohibition of Chemical Weapons, the OPAC, the Damascus regime has always put serious obstacles to the inspections required by OPAC itself. It is good to bear in mind that OPAC still denounces discrepancies and incompleteness in Syrian statements on the consistency of its chemical arsenal. In addition, the UN and OPAC, in the past, have already called for the use of toxic chemicals by the Syrian armed forces to be investigated in three cases. Furthermore, we cannot forget the massacre I referred to, that of Ghouta Est in 2013, in which about 1,400 civilians perished due to multiple attacks on nerve gas. The follow-up to that event is already history with a Russian-American understanding to dismantle the regime's chemical arsenal, sealed by a Security Council resolution that allowed OPAC to carry out a huge disposal and destruction operation of the Syrian arsenal declared. This also happened with the active support of our country. A few days ago I said that, after the dramatic events of April 4, we have another opportunity - as was an occasion the dramatic one of August 2013 - and we do not want to lose it. Our contribution will not fail even in the Security Council where, precisely in these hours, we are trying to foster a difficult consensus on a resolution condemning the attack of Khan Shaykhun and supporting the existing mechanisms for ascertaining the responsibilities of what happened through enhanced cooperation with the UN and OPAC. The vote should take place during the New York afternoon, after Staffan De Mistura's briefing on developments in the political process. Although it is difficult for the Security Council to adopt the resolution because of possible Russian opposition, our commitment to ascertaining the truth will not fail, also because the affirmation of the principle of responsibility in the face of very serious crimes is crucial in order to advance the political process and, in the future, reconciliation in Syria. The outcome of the G7 meeting of Foreign Ministers is reflected in his statement. I shall therefore leave the final statement of the G7 foreign affairs and also the two attached statements on non-proliferation and disarmament and cyberspace to the proceedings of the Senate Presidency and to my colleagues. With regard specifically to Syria, support for the Geneva political dialogue was reiterated in accordance with Security Council Resolution 2254, the central role of the United Nations in the negotiation process and our commitment to ensuring Syria's territorial integrity. So the solution that came out of UN Resolution 2254, the centrality of the United Nations in the negotiation process and the commitment to the territorial integrity of Syria are the three pillars that came out of the foreign G7 of Lucca. We also urged Russia and Iran to play a constructive role and use their influence to persuade Damascus to fulfil its international obligations on the use of chemical weapons. The substance of these principles expressed - I repeat - in the G7 press release was also fully shared by the countries who spoke at yesterday's enlarged meeting at 7.30 a.m. From what I have told you, you can understand that our diplomatic action in Lucca has been directed to revitalize the UN-led trial, which - I say this quite clearly - only the diplomatic ability of the Special Envoy Staffan de Mistura has managed to keep up to date. We have made this choice in full awareness that so far both the Astana trial, for the reasons I have mentioned, and the Geneva trial, for obviously different reasons, have not been able to put an end to a conflict that has been going on for more than seven years and has caused 400,000 victims. We are dealing with a regime that shows contempt for the human life of its own people, its own women and its own children. Even today, as I speak to you, the regime is besieging hundreds of thousands of civilians in rebel zones, out of the control of loyalist forces. These populations are prevented from accessing food and medicines, in spite of the appeals and efforts of the United Nations and the international community as a whole. This is to tell you that we can certainly not deceive ourselves that there are shortcuts to achieving peace in Syria. We are aware that it will take time for this process to lead to concrete results. The Geneva negotiations must be strengthened and supported with force and effectiveness, because it is the only instrument capable of enabling the various Syrian parties to dialogue. Italy, on the other hand, has always been convinced that there can be no military solution and that the conflict and the future of Syria depend on the political process: a peaceful Syria can only be achieved through the use of the negotiating instrument. Our diplomatic action and negotiations as a whole are directed precisely to persuade Moscow to distance itself from Assad. Italy - and this is a position I have expressed since the beginning of my mandate, but it is the historic and traditional Italian position - believes that the Syrians should be given the opportunity and the right to express themselves freely in the process and in the context of political and institutional transition provided for by Security Council Resolution 2254. You will understand well that Assad's stay in power or not affects not only the security and stability of Syria, but also the prospects for the reconstruction of the country, because you cannot think of moving to the stage of reconstruction until Assad kills his people and while the bombs still fall. This concept was clearly expressed as Italy at the Brussels Conference on Syria on 5 April, in which I participated. On reconstruction, the European Union will be able to play a leading role in accordance with European tradition and history to ensure the rebirth of the institutions and the physical and material reconstruction of Syria. To be even more explicit, if Europe has not played a military role, it has now begun to play a political role with the conference on Syria convened and chaired by Federica Mogherini a few days ago, and is running to play an essential role in the reconstruction of Syria. Ladies and gentlemen, allow me to make some final remarks on the whole of the G7 of Foreign Ministers in Lucca. I have considered it and it has been considered a good political result and also a political success. It is a G7 that began with something that was not part of the original format, that is, with a visit to Sant'Anna di Stazzema, in the places of the Nazi-fascist massacre; in this place I was accompanied also by the American Secretary of State and the ambassadors of the countries of the G7, to remember that the wars are today, but there have been and have produced millions of deaths and that today the countries that have suffered the victims on the side of those who were right, probably, and on the side of those who were wrong, hand in hand, walk in a common European destiny of peace. It was also a great organizational success and I got to thank the city of Lucca for the hospitality it wanted to give this G7. And allow me, for the tensions that have occurred outside the red zone, to thank the Forces of Order that have protected the security of the city with an extraordinary commitment made once again. [[Applause from the PD, AP-CpE and Aut groups (SVP, UV, Patt, UPT) - PSI-MAIE]] The immediate acceptance by the so-called like minded on Syria (i.e. the countries I mentioned earlier) of participating in that meeting that was not expected in the original format was an excellent result of the final, solid and robust statement, which dealt with the most sensitive subjects, essentially not evading any topic, from Syria to Libya, from Iraq to Ukraine, obviously speaking of anti-terrorism and other important issues that are under the attention of the world. The two attached statements that I referred to and all that has just been reported represent an excellent hope and an excellent work of inquiry, also in function of the Taormina Summit, which will see the Heads of State and Government engaged. Ladies and gentlemen, at the G7 we worked on Syria and other issues; we were in Sant'Anna di Stazzema; each of us who are militant in the institutions I think has an ideal for which to continue to engage in the institutions. I think I can say that with the other Foreign Ministers, at a time when the noise of bombs is still too loud to be accepted by our consciences, in a time of war, we have made our little contribution to peace. I believe that this is also a sign of respect for what the Italian people and the whole of Italy expect from this year of Italian Presidency of the G7. [[Applause from the PD, AP-CpE and Aut (SVP, UV, Patt, UPT) and PSI-MAIE groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-04-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-807.ana.u10	I thank Minister Alfano and authorize him to hand over to the offices the documents he mentioned. He's enlisted to speak Senator Centinario. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-04-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-807.ana.u11	Minister, we have listened to you well and, in part, we have also appreciated some of your passages. However, we would have liked to hear about the role of Turkey - and you did not - because we think it is a very important actor in that scenario; we would have liked to hear about the role of the Kurds, just as important in that scenario, where national states and ethnic groups do not count as much as they do; we would have liked to hear about Europe's role: you spoke of Europe only at the end, referring to reconstruction. Once again - and we say so - that we are accused of being the bad guys who want to destroy it, this Europe - is proof that Europe at international level is practically nothing. You spoke about the role of Russia and the very strong role of the United States; you spoke about Italy, as if it were the central point of this whole situation. I have seen him take much more, Minister, to deal with the Torrisi case than to deal with the Syria case. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group]] Perhaps the missiles coming not from the United States, but from the Democratic Party, but that's fine: its double role requires it to have two visions, one on the local, the national and therefore the Senate, and the other on an international level and preferred, in our opinion, to follow the events of the Senate of the Italian Republic. The circumstances in which last week an action of combat against Idlib ended with the death of dozens of civilians, including many children, caused by the exhalations of a Venetian gas, are still the subject of controversy today. As has happened before in other conflicts, there is now a political truth and the effects it has produced, determining, in particular, the choice of the United States to use for the first time against the government of Assad the military force they have. Although it was a calibrated and circumscribed action, in which attempts were made to minimise the victims and to avoid the Russian victims altogether, there is no doubt that there was a change of pace compared to what was previously seen. Mr President, the change of pace is a source of concern for us because, like many other observers, we have been thinking for some time that the new American administration would be less inclined to resort to arms than Mr. Obama's just exit, which, if you remember, is the one who had the Nobel Peace Prize: take the Nobel Peace Prize and then wage war around the world. We understand of course the logic of power relationships and the idea that probably inspired the choice of the US President, sincerely impressed by the violence of the images and caught up with a media campaign that painted him as a sort of ascaro of the Kremlin. We are, however, disturbed by the developments that this passage could involve and also by the way in which it has been achieved. A large sign of political forces, to which belongs also part of the Republican Party, has badly digested Trump's victory and does not cease to hinder it every day that passes. The President - it is before everyone's eyes - has not even managed to complete his team that already an unprecedented wave of scandals, true or presumed revelations, threats and blackmail forced him to first substitutions. We fear that a historic election for America and the world can be betrayed and can prepare a future that is far less stable than what was expected, not by the will of the US President, but because of his opponents who do not resign, even in Italy. Only time will tell us whether what happened in Syria with the launch of last week's missiles only served to prepare the ground for a negotiation that could open the door to a new balance. That is what the North League hopes for, but we already see things that are disconcerting. We recorded the re-emergence in the American narrative of the so-called moderate rebels, which we thought we had buried with the end of the Obama Presidency. We hear again about changes in regime plans, changes in government that make us tremble, because they evoke the memory of the many disasters of the last twenty years: Afghanistan, Iraq and Libya. We also consider with great concern the possibility that Russia may once again be put against the wall. We do not know what really happened and where the gases were used, but we believe that we must avoid inflicting too severe punishment on Russia and Putin with isolation. We owe it not so much to the Russians as to ourselves, because we do not know who would replace the current Russian President at the Kremlin and because we are sure that a Russia in chaos would really become a serious risk factor. For once we appreciate the fact that our country finally begins - I stress - to support the need not to isolate Moscow and we find it positive that the just concluded G7 at the level of Foreign Ministers has rejected the idea of sanctioning the Russian Federation. Minister, we hope that this is not just a facade operation as we have seen on more than one occasion: during the previous government Prime Minister Renzi on the one hand visited Putin and, on the other hand, supported the sanctions against Russia. We ask this Government to follow the example of the President of the Mattarella Republic who has gone seriously to speak to Putin and has also spoken to Russia. Let's hope this government doesn't do once again what a government of fearful people, people in the newspapers said one thing and did something else with facts. Minister, Mrs Mogherini was not and is not, in our opinion, able to represent Europe. Perhaps this Europe is not able to have a foreign policy. Surely the States must have it. If you believe that this Europe can have a solution and present something positive for this situation, try to do everything possible. We are on the side of those who want peace and we are not on the side of those who throw bombs. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-04-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-807.ana.u12	Senator Compagna is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-04-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-807.ana.u13	Mr President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, this morning this information on the Syrian issue, as well as timely - as has been pointed out by the Minister - in relation to yesterday's intense political and diplomatic day, I would say that it allows the international political debate of our country to take a step forward, to get away from the general banality that accompanied the debate on Trump's election and the defeat of Mrs Clinton. Moreover, the adjective that was used in the information by the Minister seems intelligent to me and at the same time prudent. The American reaction was considered understandable, obviously not justifiable because it never justifies the release of bombs, but it has its own understanding and in this debate it takes a step forward. Enough with this Trump the unpredictable: it hasn't been possible for five months. It could have been quite predictable in the relationship of American politics, not so much with the Russian one or the European one, but with itself that America would return to claim a role not necessarily as an antagonist, but as a less faded protagonist than in the Middle East. On the other hand, Obama's policy, if I may allow myself to amiably correct my colleague Centinario, begins with a Nobel Peace Prize which, however, wanted to mark internal peace with Clinton, who had been nominated for the primary, because it was a wish for a good mandate; that of Obama was a policy of America's return to itself and with a priority: the Iranian question first, the new beginning of a relationship with America. On behalf of this Iranian priority, we have seen President Obama allow Iran the right to nuclear power and anti-Semitism, one at the same time as the other. Every September, in fact, at the United Nations the Iranian representative shows an increasingly trivial and increasingly aggressive anti-Semitism. From this point of view, Minister, yesterday it was appropriate to extend the composition of the G7; It may be appropriate to go back to doing so, even those relations which you have in mind and which you may have already undertaken with Iran, but you cannot continue to ignore the role of Israel in what is happening in Syria. From this point of view, if there is a traditional Italian and European role it is to be alongside that partnership between the United States and Israel similar to that which characterized the relationship between the United Kingdom and India in the last century. Of course, this understandable and reliable American reaction cannot be understood as an antagonism bias towards Russia, after for five months insistently speaking of Trump as an even indirect representative of Putinism. Perhaps with the enthusiasm of my colleague Centinario those politicians who met in Coblenz three months ago were waving flags of bullying and joint Putinism. We do not want to re-interpret bullying as antiputinism, but it is precisely for this reason that Russia's role in Syria in relation to the Syrian issue must be recognised. Russia must be an interlocutor for Iran to abandon that joint right to anti-Semitism and nuclear power that too much irresponsibility and tolerance found in Trump's predecessor. [[Applause from the GAL Group (GS, PPI, M, Id, E-E, MPL, RI).]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-04-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-807.ana.u14	On behalf of the Assembly, I greet the students of the Panthéon-Assas University of Paris who are attending our work. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-04-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-807.ana.u15	He is registered to speak Senator Corsini. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-04-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-807.ana.u16	Mr President, I would like to make a point of order to the Minister concerning a 'probably' which he missed, because as far as Saint Anne of Stazzema is concerned, there is no doubt about the victims and the executioners as to who has been on the wrong side and who of reason. That is probably what you have said, Minister, if I understand correctly, is extremely serious. Syria is certainly an infinite tragedy and a humanitarian catastrophe. Some even talk about the death of humanity after the bombing of Idlib. In fact, we are faced with a macabre accounting: six years of war, about half a million deaths, five million refugees and six million displaced: all this involves criminal massacres of civilians, innocent victims, and the dramatic increase in international tensions. As far as our Group is concerned, there is no doubt that the fundamental lever on which we must act is the strategy of political negotiation, so that we can put a stop to the terrifying escalation of violence and impose a return to reason. We are convinced that it is not possible and that a military solution must not be practiced. The first task we are called to do is to protect innocent civilians. We therefore believe that the commitment to the opening of humanitarian corridors should be a priority objective. We also attach fundamental importance to the initiative of Europe, which must take responsibility for a united position, because today, unfortunately, Europe is divided and living conflicts that seem even insane; a united position that can guarantee a real weight and an active protagonism in the matter. There is no doubt that Europe pays the price of the lack of intervention instruments and the inadequacy of its political weight. Alongside Europe, our country's commitment also to an immediate ceasefire. We need to lay down arms and seek negotiated political solutions and at the same time (but this is also a responsibility of international actors) we need to start reconstruction in the liberated areas of the Islamic State and block funding for the various armed factions fighting the territory in Syria. We must put an end to the supply of arms to the conflicting parties and promote democratic dialogue between forces in the field. A sort of prefiguration of what Syria could be tomorrow. There is no doubt, as I said before, that in the context of increasing international tensions there is a movement under which the various players in the field reposition themselves and so also that there is a resumption of direct protagonism in the area of the United States, but above all I believe that the fundamental point - as you have pointed out and we cannot agree with this indication - lies in the fact that we must exercise all our influence and we must dialogue with Russia so that it can exercise the weight of its strength and political pressure on President Assad, so that we can put an end to the crimes that are under way and that are being consumed. The international dimension of the ongoing confrontation also requires a vigorous effort on our part to support UN investigations into the use of chemical weapons, so that they are finally banned and destroyed. I also believe it is appropriate to broaden our eyes and to resume our reflection on ISIS, in the framework of cooperation from all countries to prevent radicalism and combat the barbarism of Islamist terrorism. We listened yesterday, during the meeting of President Mattarella with Prime Minister Putin, to extremely wise, responsible and wise considerations and we can only subscribe to the line and position that the President has taken. They are, in our view, the fundamental compass for the orientation of the choices and the guidelines that we must adopt. We are aware that the current phenomena are the result of both Islamist radicalism and radicalised political Islam. This is to say that working in the perspective of the Assad regime's transition to a democratic solution to the ongoing conflict and defeating the strategy that Assad has pursued does not in any way mean lowering the guard against the danger that ISIS and the various Islamist organizations represent. I believe that both the horns of the problem must be held together and that this line is in the sign of a reaffirmation of the overall strategies that our country has assumed in the field of foreign and international policy. [[Applause from the Group Art.1-MDP and Senator Cervellini.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-04-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-807.ana.u17	Senator Amoruso is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-04-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-807.ana.u18	Mr President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, a long time ago, when this House was called on to discuss government information on the development of the crisis in the Middle East, I had to reaffirm Italy's positive role in a process that aimed to stabilise and maintain peace in many areas of the world, particularly in the Middle East and Mediterranean chessboard, but like many European countries, including France, Germany, the United Kingdom and the United States, had made very serious mistakes with their policies in these areas, which had led to the consequences and the situation that we are experiencing today. Well, Minister, I agree with you when you say that we need to look at a solution made up of meetings, discussions, diplomacy and certainly not a solution to the war, but when your analysis stops on some points, I think that something needs to be emphasized. It should be stressed, for example, that the American intervention was certainly not useful: many observers considered it not convincing for its very nature and Rasmussen Reports also highlighted its absurdity, reaffirming an important fact that contradicts what you have repeated today, namely the use by Syria of chemical weapons. This use has not been proven and Russia has requested that the United Nations take action to analyse and verify what happened at the beginning of April in Syria. Syria cannot be blamed for this use, while we are facing an attack on a country that is now fighting, sometimes alone, against terrorism. This is happening at a time when there are also episodes such as those of 2013, which have been openly demonstrated by Syria's foreignness and the interference of neighbouring countries that had an interest in bringing America to declare war on that State. So much has happened in these days and, in the face of an intervention that did not have the approval of the United Nations and that therefore falls outside the dictates of international behavior to guarantee the sovereignty of the States, I think that such a rigid position on the part of Italy is not appropriate. Then we must be careful, Minister, to look with interest at the return to a role of protagonist in the international scenario by the United States. If we look at what has been American politics in this scenario, we must bring back to our mind what happened in Iraq and what happened at the beginning of the so-called Arab Springs, with the recognition of the Muslim Brotherhood, which has destabilised countries and nations by bringing terrorism into many realities; we must remember what is happening in Syria today. In view of all this, I think we should follow carefully a path in which to find and identify a form of international collaboration. It is not possible to exclude nations such as Russia and Syria from the process of combating terrorism, otherwise we will no longer be able to control the international crisis, with terrorism acting in a violent and different way compared to the forms of war of the past, hitting violently - it happens - immediately after the attack of the United States: it will be a coincidence, but immediately after the terrorists of ISIS launched an attack in Syria, there were the attacks in Egypt, the one in Stockholm and a resumption of terrorism. We cannot trust terrorism: we must fight it and we can only do it together, if the whole international community, setting aside certain approaches of the past, looks at a common alliance, a common front that is truly capable of hindering the real danger. [[Applause from Senator Gambaro.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-04-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-807.ana.u19	He's enlisted to speak Senator Colucci. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-04-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-807.ana.u20	Mr President, as Mr Alfano said, the conflict in Syria has caused enormous human harm and suffering. In the aftermath of the attacks on Khan Shaykhun, all condemned this act of crime in a clear and firm manner, reaffirming that the use of chemical weapons by anyone, wherever and wherever, must necessarily cease. The long-awaited effort in Geneva to find a solution to the Syrian crisis, which has been going on for six years, is to draw up at least the draft of a constitutional text with a view to possible and probable elections, issues which had been the subject of confrontation between the parties. Despite the umpteenth crisis dictated by the events of the last ten days, it is not conceivable to hope for the abandonment of the path of diplomacy, fundamental to guarantee a future of democracy and freedom to the Syrian people. In a broader context, the escalation of the Syrian crisis places the common security challenges coming from the Mediterranean at the heart of our reflections. Part of global security depends on geopolitical stabilisation, starting from Libya and its borders, African migratory flows, the spread of Islamic radicalism, which extends from Tunisia to Iraq. Let us not forget that the Mediterranean is the bridge between the European Union and NATO. With reference to Syria, Italy strongly supports the efforts of the UN Special Envoy, de Mistura. This action must be part of the overall strategy to combat Daesh and Al Qaeda. No solution other than diplomatic solution can be envisaged. And may this be the occasion to be able to thank and support Minister Alfano for all the diplomatic efforts he is making, raising Italian foreign policy to lighthouse for the prospects of peace of the future. As Europeans, there is a clear need to strengthen security efforts together. Our defence requires more resources and a higher degree of integration. Europe must raise its ambitions and look more closely at the South, where we are now faced with the main terrorist threats. A common European defence has become urgent and goes hand in hand with the NATO strategy on the South Front. Italy's position is clear in fighting any atrocities that violate human rights: on the point it will always support any action of the allies, without excluding anyone. In this situation with rather undefined contours it is necessary to adopt the entire Italian diplomatic art and to hope, as President Mattarella did in yesterday's meeting with Putin, for an agreement on Syria to be as shared as possible. Needless to ostracize Russia and needless to pretend that Russia itself abandons positions of field from which it will never leave. The position of the Foreign Ministers of the G7 and their colleagues in Turkey, Saudi Arabia, the Arab Emirates, Jordan and Qatar appears to be positive. They believe that Russia should not be isolated and, as far as possible, that it should be involved in the political transition process in Syria. It is therefore necessary to find a point of contact through which we can clarify the use of chemical weapons and, above all, to achieve a shared solution to the crisis. At the same time, it will be necessary to involve Ankara in the negotiations in order to prevent political instability at its borders and the Kurdish situation from leading to further instability in the already turbulent Middle East. [[Applause from the AP-CpE Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-04-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-807.ana.u21	Senator Bertorotta is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-04-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-807.ana.u22	Minister, today you come to talk about Syria, after a meeting with Qatar, Saudi Arabia, Turkey and Jordan, declaring that Russia should not be isolated and that a political solution is needed in Syria. It would have to be said: you have finally noticed the situation. But I say "it would" exactly. It seems to me that the summit you have promoted is a shining example of democratic countries totally devoted to the cause of democracy. In fact, everyone recognizes that Saudi Arabia, which bombs crowded hospitals, schools and funerals in Yemen, is a mature democracy, and no one doubts that the repression of Kurds and oppositions in Erdogan is another example of mature democracy in Turkey. You see, Minister, I fully understand that your position is not easy, as is the role of Italy, after years of genuflection in the interests of other States. So I appreciate your statements on the political solution in Syria, but - believe me - no one at that summit really believed it, and I think maybe you don't believe it either. Humanitarian law has become a passepartout for any military intervention. The accusations against the Afghan Taliban for 9/11 were false, aimed only at a military intervention that still lasts today. We all remember the vial Colin Powell was shaking at the UN Security Council meeting on 5 February 2003, accusing Iraq of having weapons of mass destruction that have never been found. How can we forget the mass graves that the news from all over the world showed to justify the military attack on Libya, which we paid with hundreds of thousands of refugees every year and with a country in the hands of Islamic militias? We remember again on August 23, 2013, when all the media rose in a single voice against the government of Assad to blame him for a chemical attack on the population. The Massachusetts institute of technology (MIT) of Boston a few months later established that those attacks were launched by areas controlled by Syrian rebels and the UN itself could only conclude that, yes, there had been an attack with chemical weapons, but that there was no certainty about the author. Yet we risked another war. Well, senators, all that evidence was indecent lies or, as we say today, fake news, which has served to kill millions of people, to destroy entire states, to multiply the threat of terrorism indefinitely and to create a refugee industry. Minister, this is what our recent history has given us: an enormity of lies functional to military interventions that had a different purpose. How should we believe that? How should we citizens react to such news today? Do we have to believe it because some media has said so, or should we seriously doubt this version, given the precedents that make absolutely unbelievable those who today tell us the same story as the recent past? Today, Mr Alfano, I ask you a single simple question. What priority do states have today: to combat terrorism or to impose a model that someone dares to call democratic, but which is actually a failed model of bombs and massacres? We in the 5 Star Movement have no doubt about this: fighting terrorism and the funding that feed it must be the first and indispensable point of the foreign policy of each country, because it is a concrete threat to our security, because we owe it to the thousands of victims of the attacks that hit European cities like the Arab ones. Fighting terrorism, not using it as a Trojan horse to break down the institutions of states that are not aligned with the interests of a few large countries. The group of Friends of Syria, which would then be neither more nor less the G7 extended to the countries you met yesterday, has for years financed the Syrian rebels, in fact and largely unscrupulous mercenaries, poured out from all over the world, to fight in Syria. Thanks to the money from the states you met. Thanks to Turkey, thanks to Saudi Arabia and Qatar. For this reason, despite his words today sound as reasonable and calm, we cannot join in the jubilation of the G7. We expect the Italian Government to reject any possible military aggression, without hesitation, as Germany did in Iraq in 2003. There are no excuses for a new military intervention and we warn you as of now: Syria is not Iraq, in Syria there is a risk of a new world war, which would be a disaster for the whole of humanity. Minister Alfano, do not be reminded that the Sidney Sonnino of the contemporary age, because it would not do a good service to our country. Sonnino, also Minister of Foreign Affairs, brought Italy to war convinced that it would last a few days. You today have all the tools and information to avoid the mistake made in 1915. Italy works for dialogue, not only in words, but in deeds. [[Applause from the M5S Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-04-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-807.ana.u23	He is enlisted to speak Senator De Cristofaro. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-04-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-807.ana.u24	Mr President, in recent days my Group, in the Committee on Foreign Affairs, Migration and Tourism, has already called for the information given this morning by Minister Alfano. We believe that it is not only fair, but inevitable, at least from the point of view of the Italian Left, to spend some words in this Parliament as clear as possible and as clear as possible compared to what has happened over the past few days and also to a situation that clearly worsens from hour to hour. Minister, we believe with great clarity - we have always believed - that no war can be waged in the name of peace. We firmly believe that a possible military intervention in Syria can only make the situation worse, even if it degenerates an already dramatic conflict. Instead, we believe that it would be right and wise if every now and then we were to reckon with past history, with the events that have happened in recent years because of the disastrous military interventions in Afghanistan, Iraq, Libya; those same interventions that, unfortunately often, our government, in a supine way, failed to put in place an alternative thesis to that idea that democracy could be exported. Rather than exporting democracy, in fact, those military interventions have only razed entire countries to the ground, in addition increasing the terrorist threat and evidently increasing it. It seems to me now that terrorism is not fought with war, it is no longer just the political left, but it is a broad consensus that it is not a war that feeds it, and that terrorism and war are two sides of the same ignoble medal. We are not fighting a civil war in Syria; we are fighting a global war that sees, on the one hand, the United States, Turkey, Saudi Arabia; on the other hand, Russia, Iran, Syria: coalitions that fight exactly on the skin of the Syrian people. In the middle, the role of Europe once again too great, unable to put forward a political vision, somehow marks all the elements of difficulty of this historical phase. We really want the national Parliament to be able to express strong, clear and clear words; first of all, that we should not try to distinguish between good and bad in Syria: in Syria, Minister, they are all bad. It is bad Assad, who is a dictator and carries on a historical tradition, even a family tradition, made up of massacres and unjustified and intolerable repression of unarmed citizens. He is a dictator exactly as they are becoming al-Sisi or Erdogan. Then, the opposition, the so-called rebels, the groups of jihadists, the mercenaries armed to the teeth what are they but also those who, over the course of these years, as we know, have fed Daesh and have also put in place a military policy light years away from what we think would serve? We believe that the American military intervention should be framed in this context: a reckless intervention, Minister. I do not agree with the words - which I believe to be very serious - which President Gentiloni Silveri expressed in the hours immediately following the American attack. A reckless, unilateral intervention, an arbitrary act of war outside international law, which delegitimisates the role of the United Nations and also establishes a very dangerous precedent. It would have been up to the United Nations, not others, to ascertain the responsibilities for war crimes committed in Syria. What if tomorrow, as has happened so many times over the past few years, we should know that it was not the regime that carried out those acts that were contested? If we were again faced with a pretext, how was it in Iraq in 2003? These are obviously very serious issues. I think that the attitude of Prime Minister Gentiloni Silveri was quite wrong; I did not perceive in his words the prudence and balance - which I had acknowledged to him before during these years when he was Minister for Foreign Affairs - when he called the bombing a motivated response to a war crime. No, by doing and saying so, a kind of model of making West of international law is legitimate, which is now proposed by Trump. We should remember, you should remember, Gentiloni Silveri, that when we quote the words carved in Article 11 of our Republican Constitution, which says that Italy repudiates war, we mean exactly this - what the constituent Fathers meant - that we want to distance ourselves, as a country, from any arbitrary and unilateral military intervention. Today I have heard less serious words than those of a few days ago, although not yet decisive, and I think it is correct to say - as you said, Minister - that the negotiating instrument is the right one, but I think that is not enough. I believe that Italy today needs to ask for some precise, clear and clear things. First of all, we should be able to work for the establishment of a Regional Peace Conference and to open humanitarian corridors immediately to give hope to the people of Syria who flee, the same Syrian people who arrive on our coasts and who, according to some flattering propaganda we hear in this country, should return home. Again: we should finally propose a moratorium on the sale of arms, the other clamorous not said about this dramatic affair. I want to conclude by saying the same words that the pacifist movement, and we with it, has been repeating in these situations for twenty years. In 1991 we said: "Neither with Bush, nor with Saddam." Today, Minister, we say: 'Neither with Trump, nor with Assad'. [[Applause from the Misto-SI-SEL Group and Senator Albano]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-04-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-807.ana.u25	Senator Alicata is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-04-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-807.ana.u26	Mr President, Minister, yesterday, in the margins of the G7 meeting in Lucca dedicated to Syria, you said that Assad's future was not decided in one day, adding that the Italian position has always been to leave the Syrians the task of deciding their destiny. Well, that is what we have always thought, unlike the American administration of Obama and his foreign minister of the time that on Syria and the Arab Springs nothing understood, even coming, in the Syrian case, to support with weapons and money the so-called rebels among which also nested the headcutters. The Obama administration has, that is, enormous responsibilities for the birth of ISIS! It is good to remember, just for a moment, Minister, that Syria, before the civil war, was a tolerant country, with a secular Constitution, where it lived a mosaic of religions in peace between them, where teaching was free from kindergarten to graduation, as well as health and where women had equal dignity compared to men. It destroyed a country where everyone lived quietly, even if governed by a regime. Let us therefore make it clear, once and for all, that the Western countries, with the United States in mind, have understood nothing of what was happening in Syria and North Africa, with devastating effects on our territories. Also because of these terrible responsibilities of the duo Obama-Clinton, we welcomed the election of President Trump, but the American reaction of recent days, to the sound of bombs without a certain proof on the real authors of the chemical attack in a town near Idlib, controlled by militias related to Al Qaeda, left us puzzled. On the other hand, it is incomprehensible to understand why President Assad, who is militarily winning and who was considered by the Western world and the Americans themselves no longer an obstacle to peace negotiations, would have decided to squander this fundamental credit. Therefore, we remain convinced of the need for an independent investigation that can ascertain what really happened, in order not to repeat the episode of 2013 that led the US and some European allies one step from the bombing of Syria, when Assad was accused of having made a chemical attack, except to discover that the components used in those bombs did not belong to the Syrian arsenal, as then confirmed in 2015 by the Organization for the Prohibition of Chemical Weapons, the OPAC, an independent body also awarded a Nobel Peace Prize in 2013. We are also convinced that, despite President Trump's interventionist breakthrough, with the bombing of the second Syrian air base in Shayrat, we cannot fail to look for a fundamental understanding with Moscow, not even there being alternative authorities in Syria at this stage in Assad. The hope is that the new American administration, with the contribution of the European allies, will at this point facilitate the start of a negotiation process that opens the prospect at the end of hostilities in Syria. In all this, Minister, the wish or wish that we wish you is to make our country the protagonist in formulating, after hearing the allies, also to President Putin the invitation to participate in the next summit in Taormina, hoping that you have not forgotten, among other things, also the events of Pratica di Mare. As then, this would be a decisive initiative that would avoid fueling the dangerous escalation of tension between the two nuclear superpowers, while the world, on the contrary, expects global collaboration for the final defeat of ISIS. These are days of high international tension, which certainly, Minister, fully commit it (apart from the dedicated time, in the midst of such dangerous tensions, to press conferences for the election of Senator Torrisi), and we are convinced that in foreign policy oppositions must also play a responsible role and help to give the country an image of unity. We therefore believe that the Italian position that emerged at the summit in Lucca is acceptable in promoting an independent investigation with OPAC and UN that can shed light on the identification of those responsible for chemical attacks on civilians. At the same time, Minister, we are convinced that this position safeguards and makes possible the further and essential dialogue with Russia and Syria: both countries - let us not forget - are heavily engaged with their armed forces on the ground. Good job, Minister. [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-04-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-807.ana.u27	Senator Maran is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-04-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-807.ana.u28	Mr President, Minister, for someone who has campaigned on a platform that wanted to avoid involvement and conflict abroad and who has repeatedly warned his predecessor against military action in Syria, Trump has made a breathtaking deer in the space of just sixty-three hours after the chemical attack. Day after day, the new American President is discovering what every anti-establishment populist is destined to discover sooner or later: that problems are usually thorny and incredibly complex; that, if there had been an easy and appropriate solution, we would have already found it; that even the less satisfactory solutions often cost more than we are willing to pay or tolerate. His foreign policy lesson Trump had tragically through an ignoble attack on Syrian civilians, many of whom were children, perpetrated, according to what has been reported, with chemical weapons by the pro-Russian and pro-Iranian criminal regime of Bashar al-Assad. President Trump came into office with a somewhat naive belief that he could have made the fight against ISIS a strong piece of his politics in the Middle East, and that it was enough to drop a few more bombs and send more special forces than his predecessor to show his determination. She was naive, as happens to many demagogues, because ISIS does not grow in the void and is not even the only bad subject of the Region; ISIS, after George Bush's failures, was created as a reaction to the incredible forcings of Iran in Iraq, where the militias supported by Iran and the government forces of al-Maliki tried to destroy every trace of the Sunni power in that country and to make it a vassal of Iran. Just do an Internet search on Shiite militias in Iraq to find out that it is not ISIS that invented depravity in that part of the world. The furious assault of the Iranian Shiites against the Sunnis has gone hand in hand with that of the Shiite-Alawite regime of Assad in Syria, which has transformed, through killings and massacres, the democratic dreams of what had begun as a democratic movement, composed of many Syrian currents, into a sectarian war between Shiites and Sunnis that now involves the whole region. A war by proxy. The regime now stands only with the help of Russia, Iran and the Iranian Hezbollah militia, but it is not able to restore - that is the point - control over the whole country, because it cannot kill all the Sunnis of the country, which constitute the majority, 80% of the population. That is why Russia alone is unable to win peace and that alone would justify its intervention. Of course, missile strike is not a strategy, not least because it seems more political than strategic; if so, however, we should ask ourselves many questions, especially considering that Trump's foreign policy seems to change, in particular, after each meeting, after every event, after every crisis. But doing nothing would still be a mistake; simply letting Assad continue to try to restore control over all Syria means accepting endless massacres. A solution based on sharing and sharing power is impossible, because there is not enough confidence, on the contrary, there is not the slightest trust between the parties. The lesser evil will probably be the division of Syria and the creation of an area protected by an international force, primarily for the Sunnis. This should at least stop the killings and flows of refugees that are feeding, as we know, a nationalist and populist backlash across Europe and that - look out - Russia uses as weapons to destabilise Europe. It is up to us, of course, to Europe (which is the first to spend the Syrian crisis) to do everything possible to relaunch the negotiations and move in this direction. Italy can play a very important role, Minister, in homage to its traditions and its mediation capacity, even - of course - with Russia. That is why, Minister, we will support it, partly because there are opportunities, starting with the G7 Presidency. Only then did Trump's military intervention make sense. There is, of course, another question: it would be time for Europe to strike a blow and for Europeans to stop evading the problem of defence policies; it would be time for Europeans finally to try to face the transition of our 28 states to regional unity. This seems like another story, but it's perhaps the main part of the story that we're living. [[Applause from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-04-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-807.ana.u29	I declare closed the debate on the information of the Minister for Foreign Affairs and International Cooperation, whom I thank for being available.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-04-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-807.ana.u30	We greet the students, the students, the teachers and the companions of the Istituto comprensivo (Galileo Galilei) of Campagnola Emilia, in the province of Reggio Emilia, who follow our work. [[Applause]] As the rapporteur has not yet been present for the next item on the agenda, I shall briefly suspend the sitting. (The sitting was suspended at 10.23 a.m. and resumed at 10.28 a.m.)
ParlaMint-IT_2017-04-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-807.ana.u31	The next item is the debate on draft law No 2754, already approved by the House of Deputies. The rapporteur, Senator Pagliari, has requested authorisation to carry out the oral report. No comments were made and the request was accepted. I therefore call the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-04-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-807.ana.u32	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to illustrate Decree-Law No 14 of 2017. In Chapter I, Section I sets out provisions on integrated safety. First, Article 1 identifies as the scope of the section the rules on the modalities and instruments of coordination between the State, Regions, Autonomous Provinces and local authorities in the field of policies for the promotion of integrated security. Article 2 identifies as the first level of programming and responsibilities the broad lines of public policies for the promotion of integrated security as the primary objective of coordinating the exercise of the competences of the institutional actors involved. During the examination in the Chamber, the following areas of intervention were specified: information exchange between local police and police forces present on the territory; territorial interconnection of the local police operating rooms with that of the police; regulation for the common use of technological security systems for the control of areas and activities at risk; integrated professional update for local police and police officers. In Article 3, in implementation of the general guidelines, it is expected that the State, the Regions and the Autonomous Provinces may conclude specific agreements for the promotion of integrated security. Also on the basis of these agreements, the Regions and the Autonomous Provinces may support, within the framework of their competences and functions, initiatives and projects aimed at promoting integrated security in the territory of reference, including the adoption of financial support measures for the municipalities most affected by widespread crime. Section II of Chapter I, in Articles 4 to 8, deals with urban security. In particular, Article 4 sets out areas for action to promote urban security, such as: redevelopment - including urban, social and cultural - and recovery of degraded areas or sites; elimination of marginality and social exclusion; prevention of crime, particularly predatory crime; promotion of the culture of respect for legality; and the affirmation of higher levels of social cohesion and civil coexistence. Among the main instruments for the promotion of security in cities, Article 5 indicates the pacts for the implementation of urban security, signed by the prefect and the mayor, who identify concretely the actions to be implemented, on the basis of guidelines adopted with agreement agreed at the State-City Conference and local autonomous, on proposal of the Minister of the Interior. Urban security pacts are also aimed at promoting respect for urban decorum, including by enhancing forms of interinstitutional collaboration between the relevant administrations for the identification of urban areas to be subject to particular protection. Article 6 establishes the Metropolitan Committee for Analysis, Evaluation and Comparison on Safety in Metropolitan Cities. Article 7 provides that, within the framework of the guidelines on security policies and local pacts for urban security, specific objectives can be identified to increase the control and valorisation services of the territory. Article 8 makes some changes to the single text of local authorities. A first group of provisions intervenes on the mayor's power of order as a representative of the local community. In particular, the hypotheses are expanded in which the mayor can adopt contingent and urgent orders, so far limited to the case of health emergencies or public hygiene of exclusively local character. In fact, it is expected that the mayor may adopt extra-ordinam orders, if there is an urgent need to intervene to overcome situations of serious neglect or degradation of the territory, the environment and cultural heritage or of prejudice to the decorum and urban livability, with particular reference to the protection of the tranquility and rest of the residents. The provision specifies that such orders may also cover sales times and the administration of alcoholic and soft drinks. The mayor is also empowered to adopt ordinary administrative orders in order to provide for restrictions on sales times and on the administration of alcohol. The use of this instrument is only permitted for the protection of residents and, as specified by the Chamber of Deputies, the environment and cultural heritage, in certain areas of the cities affected by influx of persons. However, such orders must be arranged for a predefined time which, in the text approved by the House, is reduced from sixty to thirty days. Finally, the same article also intervenes on the mayor's power of order as an official of the Government. In limiting the hypotheses in which the mayor may adopt contingent and urgent orders in the matter of public safety and urban security, it is established that such measures must be aimed at preventing and countering the emergence of criminal phenomena or illegality, such as drug dealing, exploitation of prostitution, trafficking of persons, begging with the use of children and disabled people, or phenomena of abuse, such as the illegal occupation of public spaces, or violence, also linked to the abuse of alcohol or the use of drugs. Chapter II of the Decree-Law includes Articles 9 to 18. Article 9 provides for the simultaneous imposition of a pecuniary administrative penalty and removal order against those who, in violation of the prohibitions on parking and the occupation of spaces, prevent the free accessibility and use of infrastructure, fixed and mobile, railway, airport, maritime and local, urban or extra-urban public transport and related appliances. The responsibility for the adoption of the measures lies with the mayor of the municipality concerned and the proceeds of the sanctions are intended for the recovery of urban degradation. The measure of expulsion is provided for those who, in the same spaces, are found in a state of drunkenness, perform acts contrary to public decency or exercise abusive trade. The House of Deputies has also introduced the measure of expulsion for those who, in those areas, exercise the activity of a valet parker or machine-watcher. It is also envisaged, through the instrument of urban police regulations, to extend the scope of these measures to urban areas where museums, monumental and archaeological areas or other places of culture affected by substantial tourist flows or used as public greenery are located. Article 10 lays down the implementing rules for that removal measure. First, the recurrence of illegal conduct involves the possible adoption by the quaestor of a prohibition of access to one or more of the areas expressly indicated for a maximum of six months, in analogy to the regulation of the prohibition of access to sporting events (Daspo). A change made by the Chamber of Deputies has restored, until 30 June 2020, the effectiveness of the discipline on the arrest in deferred flagrante and on the application of coercive measures against the accused of crimes committed at sporting events. It is also expected that in the case of offences of violence on persons or things for which it is mandatory to arrest in flagrante, when it is not possible immediately to proceed to arrest for reasons of security or public safety, it is considered, however, in a flagrant state, who is the author, on the basis of video-photographic documentation, provided that the arrest is carried out no longer than the time necessary for its identification and, in any case, within 48 hours of the event. Article 11 deals with arbitrary occupation of real estate. In particular, it is intended to better define the routes through which the public security authority, after consulting the Provincial Committee for Public Order and Security, can make public force available to proceed to the clearance in execution of measures of the judicial authority. When defining the priorities to be taken into account in the use of public force, an amendment introduced by the House was without prejudice to the protection of households in situations of economic and social distress. Article 12 gives the quaestor, in the event of repeated non-compliance with orders relating to sales schedules and the administration of alcoholic beverages, the power to suspend the activity for a maximum of fifteen days. Article 12-a, introduced during the examination in the Chamber, extends the power of the quaestor to suspend the licence for reasons of public order also to neighborhood exercises, by amending Article 100 of the single text of the laws of public security. Article 13 provides for additional temporary injunction measures aimed at preventing drug trafficking in public premises or open to the public, which may also be adopted against children under 14 years of age. The quaestor may, in respect of persons convicted in the last three years for illicit production, trafficking and possession of narcotic or psychotropic substances, prohibit access in public premises or in public establishments where the offences have been committed. According to an amendment introduced by the Chamber, the prohibition is arranged by identifying application methods compatible with the needs of mobility, health, work and study of the recipient of the act. The infringement of the measures taken by the quaestor shall be punishable by an administrative fine and by the suspension of the licence. Article 14 lays down certain provisions to facilitate the activation of the single European number 112 in the regions. Article 15 amends the rules on personal prevention measures contained in the anti-mafia code. Article 16 complements the wording of Article 639 of the Criminal Code in the matter of disfigurement and slander of other people's things. Article 16-a, introduced during the examination at the other branch of Parliament, tightens the sanctions provided for in the road code for those who abuse the activity of parker or guard machinery. [[Applause from the PD Group and Senator Torrisi.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-04-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-807.ana.u33	I communicate that a number of questions have been referred for a preliminary ruling. He asked Senator De Petris to intervene in order to explain the question referred for a preliminary ruling QP2. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-04-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-807.ana.u34	Mr President, in the Commission's work, both in the general debate and during the deepening of the presuppositions of necessity, urgency and constitutionality, I asked a question which was not ironic, but very relevant to our judgment on this decree-law. I asked to know, because I have no knowledge of it, if Minister Minniti had ever carried out some activity as city councilman, district councilman, circumscription or municipal councilman, because alas this decree-law, which would have the ambition absolutely out of place to intervene on urban livability, is a sort of ideological manifesto of criminalization of poverty and also of social marginality and above all has no idea of what it means to administer a city and intervene on urban livability. The subjects who populate the urban space, like the people who have serious problems of marginality or other kind, those who have lost their jobs or homes are unfortunately not that the concrete manifestation of a situation of difficulty and social distress whose origins are evidently to be traced, not only in the economic crisis, but in the problems of the very structure of the cities. The policies of government, therefore, implemented to hit or limit the failures caused by this discomfort have proved to be absolutely insufficient over time. For this reason we find it incredible that the decree-law aims to intervene as a matter of urgency not to stem or to address the causes that determine this situation of exclusion and social marginality, but only to strike in the public space the marginality as an element even of defacement of decorum, of public quiet and even of morality, all terms present in the decree-law. This is an answer not very different from the policies of many years ago; I used an image that could be taken from the books of Dickens to describe the scenario that somehow this decree feeds. In addition, Mr President, I do not know whether it was the same Ministry of the Interior that issued this decree what announced a few days ago that crime data are decreasing. Honestly, therefore, we do not understand how then we can feed, with the decree-law on urban security, an idea of urgency and emergency regarding urban security itself. For this reason - and here we enter directly into the substance of the question for a preliminary ruling - we do not really understand where the conditions of necessity and above all the urgency required under Article 77 of the Constitution exist. Moreover, Mr President, the urgency is then frustrated by Article 2, which regulates the adoption not immediately, but at a time that remains indeterminate, of the general guidelines for the promotion of so-called integrated security, proposing, among other things, an old and banally repressive idea of security, through the construction, on a proposal from the Ministry of the Interior, of an institutional architecture that includes various public actors state, regional and municipal, making them act - it would be supposed - in a synergistic manner and entrusted to a subsequent agreement agreed at the Unified Conference. Among the other absolutely worrying elements present within this decree-law, which are part of a somewhat unhealthy concept of intervention on urban livability, there is that of the power of action of the mayors strengthened - through an image already used in the past by Minister Maroni of the mayors sheriffs - but not supported by resources. We think we can intervene, we give pompous definitions as vague as urban livability, without, among other things, remembering that in all these years the resources for the local authorities have decreased in an incredible way, in addition hitting precisely the action of the municipal authorities in the social field and creating additional problems and marginalities. Now, this power of intervention of the mayors is widened in the same way and almost with the same formulations of the famous decree Maroni of 2008. We are quite certain that, like that decree-law of 2008 fell by the Constitutional Court, the rules contained in that will fall to our examination of the contestable and urgent ordinances. This power of ordinance of the mayors will no longer apply only to the health sector, because it is extended to decorum, livability, the environment, cultural heritage and the degradation of the territory in general. These are all absolutely fundamental issues, which are certainly part of the way in which we mean urban safety and livability, but which are not addressed by the mechanism of ordinances, but by a design capacity for intervention and concrete tools within our neighborhoods and outskirts. In this way, the decree-law in title introduces a principle that, inter alia, a non-judicial authority may prohibit or restrict freedom of movement by an administrative act. What action is being taken when the maintenance of the parks is not carried out, because there are no resources or staff? How do we intervene on degradation? Moving away the people who would be the bearers of degradation, which are exactly what I was talking about at the beginning, which are precisely the social marginality. Among other things, I would like to remind everyone that today, even because of the crisis, we are increasingly faced with people who have a great suffering and a great social distress, perhaps because they have lost their jobs, and we do not find the classic clochard of the past. Inside our palaces and neighborhoods we are faced with serious problems of despair, even social, but we think we can intervene simply with a mechanism of removal, because this is the juice of the decree-law. The serious thing, however, which concerns us here, is that, through a non-judicial authority, freedom of movement by administrative act can be prohibited or restricted, and the right of defence can also be seriously harmed. Among other things, the possibility of judicial review of the measure of freedom of movement is denied, which - in accordance with Article 5 of the European Convention for the Protection of Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms (ECHR) and Article 2 of the Additional Protocol No 4 referred to it - constitutes a deprivation of personal freedom. The decree also provides that the mayor first and the quaestor then can arrange for some people to remove and ban access to certain places (the so-called mini-Daspo, which, as we can see, from football applies to social marginality). Here again, we are faced with very clear violations of constitutional principles, and this relates in particular to Article 9. We are faced with a violation of the principles of equality and presumption of innocence, as well as of Articles 5 and 7 of the ECHR (the ECHR provides for the principle of strict legality in criminal law, while here we are much further) and Article 2 of Protocol 4, as regards the order of removal as a preventive measure. Furthermore, the measure in question does not allow sufficient estimates to be made of cases where restrictive measures can be applied and does not provide the authority with any indication on the basis of evidence which can support such an investigation. To conclude with the list of constitutional violations, with all the mechanisms that are put in place in this decree-law - since Article 10 even specifies that the granting of conditional suspension may be subject to compliance with these prohibitions - we have a heavy reflection in criminal matters and penitentiary. Therefore, through strictly administrative measures we go, not only to undermine constitutional principles, but to severely limit the freedom of persons. For all these reasons, Mr President, we believe that these decree-laws deeply undermine our constitutional principles and, from a political point of view, undermine political decency. I conclude with a warning, but also with a council, which I addressed to the Ministers. To think, with this decree-law, to ape or even to ride for electoral reasons the most reactionary impulses, which may be agitated by other political forces, is an act that will absolutely not bring votes. But the failures, as far as our cities are concerned, and the political and ideal impact on constitutional values will be very profound. For this reason, we ask that we do not proceed with the examination of the draft law under consideration. [[Applause from the Misso-SI-SEL Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-04-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-807.ana.u35	He asked Senator Malan to intervene in order to explain the question referred for a preliminary ruling QP1. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-04-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-807.ana.u36	Mr President, we have already supported in the Commission the reasons why this decree-law should not be examined, because it contains measures which, first of all, could be introduced in the ordinary form, allowing Parliament to intervene. The Senate has been completely inhibited from being able to make any changes. I am not just talking about the opposition, but also about the majority that certainly had - I imagine - ideas about it. We had many of them and we had illustrated them in our amendments and in our agendas. But the House itself had to make a very quick passage and, for the changes I observed, perhaps it was bad, because it seems to me that the changes made by the House were worse. It is a measure with many words and few facts, also because the very idea of this measure is to involve and give a role, tasks and additional burdens to the municipalities and, in particular, to the mayors, without giving the mayors any resources. The municipalities have been subject to a number of very significant budget reductions, which have led, for example, to a drastic reduction in municipal police. Then, after doing all this, with an ambitious decree-law you try to give local authorities tasks they do not have, because public order, as the Constitution very clearly says, is a competence of the State. Therefore, measures are introduced, some of which are also acceptable, such as the Daspus at the head of the mayors. We had proposed further measures that could be entrusted, but the problem is, precisely, the lack of resources, the lack of clarity in the definition of tasks and, in the end, a kind of admission of impotence by the State, which is particularly disturbing, with regard to public order and the protection of the security of citizens. An example article in this regard is Article 13, which in the heading contains more measures to combat drug trafficking... - should therefore be a general matter - inside or near public premises or open to the public and public establishments. It comes almost to say that if it is not done in the vicinity of the public exercises, the drug dealing, all in all, is also fine. That is not, of course, the content of the article, but it is rather indicative. This measure is also perhaps useful, but it is said that the quaestor can arrange it. In fact, we know that the measure consists of a specific ban on people convicted of drug dealing to attend certain areas, if close to the public establishments where they had already been surprised, so there are reasonable fears that they may continue their criminal activity. The problem is that we know what the current situation is: when a citizen calls to say that in front of his house, in such a public garden or in such a street they are dealing with drugs, the answer is that there is no one to send and that anyway it is small fish. As General Dalla Chiesa taught many years ago, if crime and drug dealing, starting with small fishes, are to be combated, then the big fishes, who must go to sell drugs or stop their activity. In the measure there is some palliative intervention, some attempt to intervene here and there with measures that are however inappropriate. On the contrary, a real strengthening of the Forces of Order should be achieved, going in the opposite direction to the one in which one has gone and continues to go. The law enforcement agencies should be protected. We know that there has been an attempt to introduce, also in this measure, the public order force identifier in service. The President of the 1st Commission, Senator Torrisi, rightly considered it inadmissible because it was out of the question, but the bill is proceeding independently. In a few weeks' time, the torture crime will be discussed again, which is aimed mainly at the Forces of the Order. We agree on the point, we are all against torture - we would miss it - but the wording that emerged after the passage to the House means that this measure will be a further thorn in the flank, even a deterrent for the Forces of Order to intervene promptly when needed. In some cases these measures are a very small contribution, in others, even acting in the opposite direction, in the face of an increasingly frequent feeling on the part of citizens of lack of security in our cities. Then there is Article 11, on which I would like to dwell because there really are serious constitutional profiles here, both in terms of competence and in terms of the right to private property, which is protected by our Constitution. This article refers to the provisions on the employment - noted well - arbitrary of real estate. It brings an amendment to a law relating to abusive occupation of real estate. In other words, the substance is always that, but when one occupies a property that is not his, it is no longer abusive (a term that clearly indicated the fulfilment of an irregular act), but it has become arbitrary, that is, a subject that has decided on its own and maybe is right, maybe not. That already says something about the substance of the rules. In the Commission, we have heard from the Government's kind representative explanations which unfortunately run counter to the text. The measures for the removal of illegally occupied premises are a widespread phenomenon, which increases its frequency with "import" of hundreds of thousands of people, without art or part, from other countries, recovered by us in front of the Libyan coasts. Well, it says in the text that it is not enough for the endless drawing that the owner had to endure until today to obtain the judgment of the magistrate, as if there were to be need - and unfortunately it is right there that one should intervene - but it is also necessary a sentence to establish that one cannot stay in a house that is not his if the owner of the house does not agree. That's crazy. Yet it is necessary. Then it takes the intervention of the public force. At that point it is up to the prefect, who does not speed up the operations but can dose these evictions according to the danger of possible disturbance to public order and security at the same evictions. In other words, if those who abuse these homes are criminals, violent people, or threaten to be criminals, or are able to provoke public unrest, then we are going a little slower. This is decided by the prefect, appointed by the Government on the basis of directives that come from the same Government and that can very well - I hope not so, of course - not take any account of local needs. As if that were not enough, we are also talking about priority criteria which also take into account the levels of care that can be provided to those entitled by local authorities. In other words, if the people who occupy a local abusively manage to make themselves feel vaguely in need of something - maybe they have children or disabled people brought specifically - also in this case it is postponed because the municipality cannot provide for the owner who suffers an occupation. Colleagues, this isn't about the rich. There are several cases. I have even heard the case of a person who is hospitalized; criminals have entered his house, they have taken away all the furniture and she does not even have the right to enter to see what condition his apartment is; she waits for the judge's sentence and now she will also have to wait for the prefect to say that there are no dangers to public order, in other words that those who abuse the premises are not criminals because they are able to stand there. On the basis of all this, we ask that we do not move forward in this debate. [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII and Senator Mauro Giovanni. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-04-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-807.ana.u37	Pursuant to Rule 3 of the Rules of Procedure, a single debate will take place on the questions referred for a preliminary ruling, in which one representative per Group may speak for no more than ten minutes. Since no one intends to intervene, I put to the vote the question referred for a preliminary ruling, on several grounds, by Senator Bernini and other Senators (QP1) and Senator De Petris and other Senators (QP2). It's not approved. MARTELLI (M5S). Let's ask for a rehearsal. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I order the doors closed. We proceed to counter-test by electronic procedure. It's not approved. He's enlisted to speak Senator Piccoli. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-04-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-807.ana.u38	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, representatives of the Government, this decree-law repeats what has happened with other measures: shares that are acceptable but content of reform that are empty, contradictory and superficial, which demonstrate a short-sighted vision of public security. Italy has a great and urgent need for security; the law enforcement forces are understaffed and poorly equipped, and in the measure there is no trace of a single euro destined to increase the funds for the police forces. The relationship between security and territory is changing. For this reason I would have expected strong instruments to enhance control and prevention on the ground, to improve and strengthen the endowments in aid of the Forces of the Order. I'm gonna clear up a few points. Article 9 provides for the financial administrative penalty from 100 to 300 euros for those who put in place conducts that limit the free accessibility and use of railway infrastructure and local public transport to be borne by subjects who - let us be clear - will hardly pay, downloading the competence of the measures on the mayor-sheriff, without, however, adequate tools. I would like to focus on the most peripheral sections and mountain stations which, over time, have seen the loss of fixed personnel, supplanted by obliterating machines. This has led to an obvious degradation, which makes the free and safe use of means of transport difficult. The solution you propose is a sort of 48-hour mini-Daspo for those who compromise the decorum and use of these places, prevention measure that I find inadequate, absolutely ineffective and difficult to apply in concrete. How can we expect to make the most of rail transport for tourist purposes if we do not guarantee travel conditions with a minimum safety service? The solution must be sought urgently by the Government also through a more incisive connection with the Regions. Instead of taking smoky measures, we begin by strengthening Polfer, rather than cutting it down and threatening it with continuous dismantling and reduction plans. I would also like to recall the real mess represented by Article 11, which contains provisions on the arbitrary occupation of buildings, with which, in fact, the work of eviction of buildings illegally occupied for prefects and Forces of order, which are burdened by the observance of complex bureaucratic procedures, all to the detriment of capacity and operational concreteness. A further serious lack is the following: a very strong security risk is not addressed from private subjects occupying buildings to be used as mosques through the mask of cultural associations, an increasingly widespread phenomenon, which must be regulated under both the religious freedom of each and urban security. I believe that it would have been appropriate to provide for a rule codifying what administrative jurisprudence has been saying for some years now, namely that the seat of an association with social purposes cannot be the subject of a promiscuous use between social activity and worship. It is true, in the light of the judgment n. 63 of 2016 of the Constitutional Court that the construction of buildings of worship constitutes an aspect of the right to religious freedom protected by Article 19 of the Constitution, to be assured also to those confessions that have not entered into an agreement with the Italian State, however it is necessary to take into account, as a part of the constitutionalist doctrine, the distinction between freedom of worship and modalities of exercise of the same. I am convinced that it was necessary to provide in the decree a rule that would have the constant monitoring of the activity of the fake associations in question, verifying the quality, nature and reliability of these private subjects. This problem arises in many municipalities where the mayors themselves do not have the basic tools to act in this direction. Also as established by the Constitutional Court, which recently declared illegitimate paragraph 3 of Article 31-b of the Venetian Regional Law No 11 of 2004 which provided for the obligation of the use of the Italian language in the Venetian mosques, it is necessary and urgent to conclude specific agreements for the regulation of places of worship. In conclusion, Mr President, I am convinced that this measure contains many missed opportunities. The decree does not provide answers to the real needs of the country, it does not provide tools to the forces of order, it does not give real operational tools to the mayors in the matter of local security with concrete economic appropriations (see, in fact, the clause of financial invariance), it loses the opportunity to face that great security theme that is represented by legitimate defense. The safety of Italians is not propaganda. Security is an investment, a citizens' right and a duty of the State which must be exercised by concrete acts that give, among other things, the sense of gratitude that is due to those who put their safety at risk in order to defend ours. [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-04-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-807.ana.u39	Senator Perrone is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-04-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-807.ana.u40	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, it has been since November 2013, when the urban security technical table was set up at the Ministry of the Interior, that mayors are waiting for the approval of the decree before this House today. In these four years, however, the phenomenon of urban insecurity has reached a very high level, generating territorial realities that are very difficult to manage. From this point of view, the conversion of this decree-law represents a step forward, yet it could be done better and more. Such a measure had to provide adequate economic resources without which local authorities could not intervene either in the area of prevention or in the area of the persecution of crimes. For these reasons we asked the government for a further effort, at least to strengthen the role of the local police, which is the operational arm through which the mayors manage to administer the territory, especially for the garrison of neighborhoods and for the respect of regulations and orders in the field of the environment, for the separate collection but also in the matter of trade and construction. The rule providing for the loosening of turnover meshes for the recruitment of local police personnel, as described in the Decree-Law, is not effective, since recruitment is considered to be on the expenditure ceiling for municipal staff (comma 557 of the 2006 Finance Act), while expenditure on new recruitment of local police should be excluded. The enemies to be opposed are the social disorder (acts of vandalism, robberies, harassing beggars, pickpockets) and a widespread urban degradation, consisting of the action of the abusive car parkers, prostitution in public areas, commercial abuse, and finally the uncontrolled consumption of drugs and alcohol, especially in premises with vending machines of H24 drinks, especially if in the historical centers). I would add to this endless list the difficult problems of coexistence between citizens and immigrants, as well as with Roma communities. All conditions that remove entire neighborhoods and public areas from the community, which in fact become areas in which honest citizens cannot even pass without incurring the risk of being attacked. In this social context, mayors find their hands tied by bureaucracy and the lack of national legislation that acts as a deterrent to criminals. This is the case of abusive valets, for which we had asked the government to turn the crime from administrative to criminal, because the municipalities do not have sufficient staff to enforce the removal orders: punishable and certain punishment are the only deterrent that can discourage cases of criminal activity. The demonstration that this decree-law did not take into account the complexity of the problem of urban security is also found in the lack of attention given to prevention. Through prevention, it is possible to retrain public places and make them accessible to citizens, to encourage socialisation activities that can promote the reintegration of disadvantaged people and those involved in illegal activities. It also happens, more and more often, that those responsible for acts of urban degradation are the same ones who claim from the mayors subsidies and other forms of livelihood, to the detriment of the citizens who would really have the right and need to do so. Without a serious fight against social exclusion, our cities will be invaded by invisible areas, where people live who find a good way to survive only in crime or in the use of drugs. Preventive activities that require economic investment in order to be effective that the municipalities cannot afford in this situation. From 2010 to today, municipalities and provinces have seen their employees decrease by 105,000 because of the constraints on turnover and the Stability Pact. I would like to recall, at the end of my speech, that last February the mayor of the Municipality of San Severo, in Foggiano, was forced to start a hunger strike in order to attract the attention of the public regarding the criminal emergency in its territory, so much so that the Minister of the Interior had to send from Rome the Forces of the Order to protect the citizens. The mayor's exasperation is the exasperation of millions of citizens who demand respect for the legality that the institutions are in fact denying. Listening to the voice of the mayors therefore means meeting the demands of the citizens, who no longer have faith in the laws of the State. The increase in the number of requests from the arms marinas can be interpreted as an attempt by citizens to protect themselves. In Italy there are many, I would say too many, realities like that of San Severo, for which it is not conceivable to resort every time to the military. Reconciliation of the relationship of trust between citizens, administrators and the State is an indisputable necessity. Legality and justice are rights that a civil state must recognize and guarantee to its citizens; a right that the institutions are denying to Italians, forced by a short-sighted policy to live daily in fear. We should all question our consciences about this. [[Applause from Senators Comrade and Liuzzi]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-04-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-807.ana.u41	Senator Nugnes is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-04-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-807.ana.u42	Mr President, we are examining a propaganda and dangerous decree-law, as I shall explain later, which does not devote a single cent of public finances to security policies and, above all, to prevention policies. This is laid down and written in black and white in Article 17, with the well-known financial neutrality clause. It is a decree that responds only to the logic of the mayor sheriff, increasingly invoked by the belly of a citizenship also rightly tired of the degradation and urban insecurity to which it is now condemned, seems without appeal, but to which the decree-law gives no concrete response. The prerogatives and powers of control and repression of the mayors, the quaestor and, in some way, the prefects are strengthened in an attempt to put - as we well know, unnecessarily - the dust under the carpet. The mayor is given the opportunity to adopt orders aimed at resolving (but it is not said how) situations of serious insecurity and degradation of the territory and prejudice of decorum and urban livability. But how? We do not understand the tenor of these orders and how the coercive powers of the mayor can have an effectiveness of prevention towards those who are already - and we remember - carried out of crime. Everything seems to be reduced to the order of removal of undesirable subjects from good living rooms and social places, from tourist itineraries. The removal order is governed by Article 9, which also provides for financial penalties, which we do not know how they will be collected, since they are often borne by subjects at the limits of poverty, and provides for removal from forty-eight hours from certain specific places delimited by the mayor. What subjects are we talking about? Subjects who have committed administrative offences and/or acts contrary to public decency (drunkness, begging, abusive trade). 11:18 a.m. (Nugnes follow). But - and here it takes a "ma" - since the ordinances will be the prerogative of the mayors, can also be included protesters, opponents, young or less young attenders of social centers? Of course, we cannot forget what happened for the March 25 procession: the street papers, the preventive police and the evaluation of the quaestor, who said, without any discomfort, that he also verified the ideological orientation of the demonstrators. Besides, what areas are we talking about? Areas interested in the flow of tourism and intended for public use: a logic, therefore, not of prevention, but of repression and delimitation of privileged areas and, conversely, of limiting certain fundamental rights such as freedom of movement; a logic of exclusion of marginal subjects, not inclusive but divisive, not resolving the problem, but sectarian and segregation. Let us reason: let us remove these subjects from places where we do not want to see them, but they do not disappear, they do not dissolve only by order. Away from the center, they will go to the outskirts, to the less controlled places, less served, less livable: they will go to the ghettos. It is also a curious obligation to live, already provided for, if I am not mistaken, in our order, but which is strengthened. There is also a tightening of powers and the use of police forces for the eviction of illegally occupied housing. Well come, but how can we forget that it is a constitutional duty of the state to provide decent housing for all citizens? In summary, the measure is propagandistic and aims at the belly of Italians without resolving anything; it is the bearer of a violent repressive charge aimed at the most marginal sectors of society, without any prevention, which will only exacerbate inequality, conflict and human misery. However, Article 4 clearly defines the concept of integrated security, which can only be achieved through the elimination of the factors of marginality and social exclusion (and not through the elimination of marginal subjects and excluded from society) and which can certainly not be an instrument of political control of dissent. There is therefore a zero tolerance policy without prevention and recovery. Everything happens according to a class logic and it is curious that the Minister declares this measure on the left. Evidently the meaning has been lost and obviously the PD, after having renounced to overcome poverty and inequalities, proposes to eliminate the poor physically, at least from sight, and the marginals pushing them towards the outskirts and away from the urban spaces of the good living room to pretend that they do not exist. There are measures such as the removal order, the extension of delayed arrest and the Daspus, which was to be a circumscribed and emerging measure and which shows that the emerging measures are only levers to undermine rights. The arrest will no longer take place, therefore, only with respect to persons caught in flagrantness, but also with those who will be taken through photos and videos in times delayed from the moment when the crimes take place. This represents a clear contraction in personal freedom by means of an administrative act and by means of local police, often without even the need for the validation of the judicial authority and without the person concerned having the right to appear and articulate a minimum of the right of defence. This seems serious to us, but it is even more serious if it underlies, as we fear, a form of control of political dissent. Thus, a deterioration of constitutional law and guarantees is achieved according to an emerging logic that resolves nothing. We tend to override the logic of the law that is based on the judicial investigation with evidence and the right of defence and we move to the limitation of the rights and personal freedoms for some categories of subjects considered as carriers of danger - this has already happened for other measures - as the ultra, the toxic, the drunkard, the immigrant, the simple indigent and, perhaps, also the political opponent. It is a classist, divisive and, as well as unjust, useless and ineffective logic and, moreover, dangerous for the safety of our cities, because it is proven by studies and statistics that, the higher the tone of the defense, the higher the tone of the attack and vice versa. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-04-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-807.ana.u43	On behalf of the Assembly, I greet the teachers and students of the Institute of Higher Education (Luigi Schiaparelli-Antonio Gramsci) in Milan, as well as a second group of the Institute including Campagnola (Galileo Galilei), who are attending our work. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-04-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-807.ana.u44	Senator Albano is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-04-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-807.ana.u45	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the decree-law we are debating today, within a few months of its being presented to the House of Members, has already made a great deal of talk about itself. Without a doubt, it aims to increase the security of citizens with new tools, involving not only the Forces of the Order, but all the institutions of the Country and focusing in particular on the cities, small, medium and large, that is, those areas unfortunately often more degraded and less safe and within which the social tensions present in our society are discharged. First of all, however, we must be very clear, with ourselves and with our fellow citizens. There is no security emergency in Italy. The numbers speak for themselves: crimes have been decreasing for years and Italy is among the European countries with the lowest crime rate, in particular with regard to murders. Of course, the news, even recent, does not help us to convey this message. But even less help, in my opinion, in the public debate on the subject of security, the polemics mounted in art by many political exponents and part of the press, who not only invoke more security, concept on which, theoretically, we all agree, but that by exploiting the emotional wave aroused by episodes of news, they would like to put a weapon in the hands of every Italian, inviting him to take justice on his own. This is not acceptable and we have to say no; it is not the citizens who have to do justice on their own, but it is the State that must ensure the safety of roads, homes, shops and private property. Of course, the demand for security is strong today. And this demand is strong and growing for a number of reasons. The economic crisis and low unemployment make everyone poorer and more insecure. The migratory phenomenon increases the number of foreigners in our cities, in the suburbs that become dormitory and in the centers, where many of them spend their days looking for a job or a charitable gesture. The acts of international terrorism, finally, with the latest episodes in Belgium, Russia, Sweden instill a continuous fear and a continuous concern in the citizens, leading them to look with fear at every foreigner and any uncommon attitude as a possible threat. For this reason, first of all, the task of the political class must be to emphasize that our country is not a reality in crime, but rather a country in which crimes have been decreasing for years, thanks to the policies of successive governments, but above all thanks to the extraordinary work carried out every day, among many difficulties, by women and men of the Forces of the Order, to which our most heartfelt thanks go. Turning now to the decree-law that we are debating today, I welcome first of all the idea of interinstitutional cooperation to protect the safety of cities and urban decorum. Thanks to agreements between the State and the Regions and through the establishment of pacts with the local authorities, we want to create a new form of governance between the various actors of government of the Country, defining roles and competences with precision. In this way the State promotes agreements with Regions and Municipalities to achieve integrated security; thus the competences are clear and every institutional entity knows what to do without overlaps. And above all, the power of mayors and municipalities to prevent crimes is decisively increased. The first citizens, in fact, will be able to adopt orders even in the presence of the necessity of interventions aimed at overcoming situations of serious carelessness and degradation; they will be able to intervene on the times of sale of alcoholic beverages and, which I like to emphasize, on the opening hours of the games rooms. Through a system of administrative sanctions we want to prevent phenomena that adversely affect the perception of safety and the decorum of the cities. The measure, in fact, deals with prevention and repression (two concepts that move in parallel), but without introducing new laws and without declaring a tightening of existing sanctions, only for propaganda purposes. On the contrary, the definition of urban security as a public good linked to social regeneration, livability and decorum is a great step of civilization that makes our country. The text under discussion also identifies some new actions to pursue this public security: urban, social, cultural redevelopment; recovery of degraded areas, elimination of social exclusion factors, prevention of crime; promotion of the culture of respect for legality. Moreover, these interventions are accompanied by prevention and repression tools, such as administrative sanctions and temporary removal for those who restrict the free accessibility and use of certain public places such as railway stations and those towards abusive parking, people in a state of drunkenness, those who exercise abusive trade, in order to protect tourist areas and areas close to schools and university offices. It also restores the effectiveness of the discipline of arrest in flagrant delay for crimes committed at sporting events and the extension of this institute to violent crimes committed at public demonstrations. This delayed arrest is a very important aspect of the measure, because it allows the Forces of the Order to work in safer conditions and with certainly more incisive results. Mr President, I would ask you to hand over the text of my speech, so that it can be published in the annex to today's report. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. The Presidency shall authorise it accordingly. Senator Dirindin is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-04-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-807.ana.u46	Mr President, representatives of the Government, colleagues and colleagues, the bill for the conversion of Decree-Law No 14 of 2017, laying down provisions on the safety of cities, which the Assembly is about to vote on, addresses a real problem on which the attention of the municipal administrations and in particular the mayors, who are the first reference on the territory of the citizens and who unfortunately often face problems (even but not only) of security, without having adequate human, professional and financial resources. I would like to focus on the fact that this problem is certainly more relevant in times of crisis, when economic uncertainties (and not only) increase the loneliness, anguish and anger of people and - as all the studies on the effects of the economic recession on the well-being of people now clearly state - affect mental health through an increase in stress, depression, frustration and aggression, behavioral disorders and also the perception of social injustices that risk favoring small or large acts of violence. We cannot overlook the fact that there are significant statistical correlations between unemployment, financial difficulties and behaviour at risk; at risk for the well-being of the most marginalized people, as well as for urban security. These are behaviors that often occur in forms such as alcohol or substance abuse. There is also clear scientific evidence that these conditions have significant effects especially on the children of these people, on their mental health, especially when it comes to single parent families. It is a real problem with which subjective perception and objective experience seem not to coincide. In fact, street crimes do not increase, but above all - we know well - the perception of insecurity is strongly conditioned by the exploitation of the so-called party of fear at the end of consensus, unfortunately also electoral. In view of this real problem, which therefore does not want to hide itself, the solutions proposed by the decree-law, although acceptable in the choice of method of aiming to promote integrated, cross-sectoral actions, which provide for the joint responsibility of all the competent institutions - and this is an important aspect that I appreciate it - appear in my opinion partial and uncertain results. In fact, to a problem which, in the first place and in any case to a large extent, is a social problem, of risk of marginalization or of real marginalization and sometimes is a real health problem, we give an answer by favouring actions that we could call safe, with a word that does not like but that sums up well a set of actions that include administrative sanctions, prohibitions, removals, limitations of the freedoms of the marginalized who, in my opinion, will be able to move the problem elsewhere and in time and certainly not solve it, I do not say definitively, but not even partially. And perhaps they will not even be able to give a real and lasting response to the sacred - I stress - right of people, of those not marginalized, not to see their freedom to live in a decent environment, in which their tranquillity and their night rest are protected, important goods, on which we must watch, but in my opinion with instruments also and above all different. Also because - let us remember - decorum should often be ensured in the first place in public structures, in public administration, in particular in those intended to accommodate people, starting from schools, hospitals, courts, public offices. How many disused public administration structures are allowed to degrade and are often used by the marginalized as meeting places or as places of residence? This is primarily our task. The draft law also provides for a series of measures which, in my view, do not call on local authorities to bear their responsibilities in the exercise of their responsibilities in the field of social policies. They renounce to counter growing indifference and disengagement towards the rights enshrined in the Constitution. Indifference and disengagement that we see in many of the welfare policies at all levels of government, with particular regard to Article 3 of the Constitution, which says that it is the task of the Republic to remove the obstacles of an economic and social order, which, (...) prevent the full development of the human person and not simply remove the people who fail to enter the community. A series of interventions that give up support to local authorities and the local police so that they are able to distinguish the marginalized from the small crime, which must certainly be combated, but above all from the actual crime, on which action must be strengthened. Once again there is a risk of underestimating the issue of inequalities, of which there is no mention in this country with due attention and which are growing in our country. On the other hand, we give up putting ourselves on the side of the weakest, not with goodness, but with adequate policies, also because there is now clear evidence that the negative effects of the crisis can be significantly mitigated by building and helping to build communities with higher levels of social cohesion and when specific intervention programmes are put in place, in a cross-sectoral perspective. The cross-sectoral perspective is stated and must be appreciated, but then it must be supported with concrete programmes. Furthermore, I cannot forget that, although the objectives listed in Article 5 in the text as amended by the House of Deputies indicate the need for urban security to be pursued with positive actions to promote inclusion, protection and social solidarity, this happens just a few weeks after the National Fund for Social Policies has been drastically reduced and the Government has appreciated the commitment to restore the resources that have been cut, a commitment that I ask the Government to be maintained in good time. Otherwise, we end up combining security interventions with very few interventions aimed at promoting better social cohesion. Finally, I would like to focus on a number of more technical aspects. I would like to point out that, in relation to the amendment of Article 50 of Legislative Decree No 267 of 2000 (introduced by Article 8 (1) (a) of the text today before the Assembly), it would certainly not be easy to read the amendment, it would be appropriate to clarify better what is introduced, in order to avoid misinterpreted interpretations and unnecessary litigation. It is introduced for the mayor, as representative of the local community, the new faculty to issue ordinances that can be counted and urgent, in relation exclusively to the need to protect the tranquillity and rest of the residents, as is written in the text. Also in relation to article 8, paragraph 2, which allows to act in contrast to the rules on sales hours, also for taking away, and the administration of alcoholic and superalcoholic beverages, I stress that the interpretation and the concrete use of the orders should be monitored, as we have specified in an agenda at the first signature of my colleague Lo Moro. As they have been introduced, in fact, such ordinances may not exceed the principles enunciated by the judgment of the Constitutional Court No 115 of 2011. Finally, I would like to ask the Government for an annual report to Parliament on actions to protect safety and promote social inclusion put in place by public administrations in application of the legislation we are going to vote on today, including in order to identify possible changes and corrections. I do not think that this sensitive issue can be dealt with with with emergency interventions, without carefully assessing the effects, especially because they concern sensitive aspects of our community, which affect social cohesion and which we would like to improve. [[Applause from the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and ……]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-04-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-807.ana.u47	He's enlisted to speak Senator Floris. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-04-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-807.ana.u48	Mr President, Mr Vice-Minister, ladies and gentlemen, I think I should ask for permission to leave the text of my speech to the record, because I shall be doing a very different report than I had prepared.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-04-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-807.ana.u49	The Presidency authorizes it to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-04-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-807.ana.u50	FLORIS (FI-PdL XVII). The reason for this change of relationship lies in the feeling that I have felt in a number of colleagues that I have heard coming out of the Chamber saying that some of the senators who preceded me, rather than as legislators, have spoken as mayors, almost as if they were not in tone with the subject we are dealing with. Well, I too have had this experience, having been mayor of a medium-sized city for ten years, with 160,000 inhabitants, which is Cagliari. I have dealt with security issues more than once and more than once I have met with the prefect, who was the head of security and public order, with whom I have often found a great harmony. And we would also be in tune with the provision made by the Minnite Interior Minister, who strongly wanted it, if he did not have a great flaw. It presents in fact an original sin, with which of course we cannot agree, original sin determined by the economic resources to which the decree-law refers. Indeed, it connects directly with the financing for the investments and the infrastructural development of the Country, referred to in article 1, paragraph 140, of the law n. 232 of 2016. In this Article, the measures to which these resources are directed are taken into account. In the course of this funding, there are: transport, road, mobility, infrastructure, research, soil protection, hydrogeological failure, high-tech industrial activities, computerization of the judicial administration, prevention of seismic risk, removal of architectural barriers and also investments for urban regeneration and for the safety of the suburbs of the metropolitan cities or of the capital municipalities. To this measure of an economic nature, the amount of which is certainly not sufficient for the objectives to which it is destined, the aim was to add, with this decree-law, the redevelopment and recovery of the areas of the most degraded sites, the elimination of the factors of marginality and social exclusion (as if they were problems that need only a few resources), the prevention of crime, in particular of predatory type, the promotion of respect for legality and higher levels of social cohesion and civil coexistence. Now, just to deal with what is the subject of urban security, according to Minister Minniti, additional resources would have been needed, in our opinion. And where are these resources found? They are found by administrative sanctions. But you know, Minister Minniti, how many people are subjected to violations and how many of them pay the same fines? Definitely less than 50%. Moreover, these are administrative resources ranging from EUR 100 to EUR 300 and certainly do not constitute a resource with which the municipalities can deal with what is required of them in terms of order and public security. To this I would like to add that the blockage of the turnover (due to previous laws that I am not quoting here) forced the municipalities to see their organic endowment of local police reduced to the minimum terms. Since I mentioned Cagliari, I take exactly the example of my city: in 1990 the municipal police endowment was 340 employees, while today there are less than 230. Therefore, we want to add powers to the local police in a situation where they cannot meet their current obligations. That said, I would also consider the small accessory fact that in the meantime this local police has aged. Today the average age, in the local police of my city, is about fifty-four years, and most of these people, (being there agents almost sixty-five years old), carry out its activity mainly in the offices. A decree-law of this kind, Mr. Deputy Minister, should have provided for an important release of recruitment in order to repulse the presence of the local police. Moreover, new recruits require training and when the time comes for training, some policemen leave the workplace and therefore the situation would have assumed a completely different direction. As Mrs Bernini said earlier, who referred to the questions referred for a preliminary ruling, and Senator De Petris, although she shares the aim of Minister Minniti, of the decree-law under consideration, we cannot appreciate the content, especially because of the financial scope that she envisages, and we can certainly not vote in favour of it. That, at least, is my opinion, and then I will return to what my Group says, which I do not think is a different position from mine. In fact, it is aware of the problem because many times it has been discussed and because it has been the subject of laws enacted by the Berlusconi Government, from the introduction of the policeman of proximity to many other regulations that have been produced in the years of the Government of center-right. I do not mean that the centre-right is the only one interested in the security of the city, because I think that security is not center-right or center-left, but those measures were full of content and resources. On the other hand, this measure does not contain the essential prerogatives, i.e. it does not contain resources. [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-04-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-807.ana.u51	Senator Uras is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-04-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-807.ana.u52	Mr President, I would like to begin my speech by making a statement of recognition addressed to our security system, to the Security Forces, to the Chief of Police, to all those who are working and working daily on the streets to guarantee Italian citizens a life that is as serene as possible and the conduct of all activities, including those of value and political and democratic sense. I think this recognition is due because we are talking about a safe country. Italy is not an insecure country. It is a safe country, which I think would have been even safer, if we had won our personal bet: I am referring to the people of my generation who wanted to build a better, more pacifist and peaceful world, not violent, more just and, therefore, more attentive to human suffering, to counter poverty and discrimination, to decisively combat social marginalization. That was unfortunately not the case. We have been coming for decades in which, with a responsibility of the media, press and information operators, communication has been violent and has built a cultural hegemony - so would have called it Antonio Gramsci - where the worst was taken as an example; the worst, not the best. This responsibility is not only of those who communicate, but also of those who work culturally and politically and therefore certainly of the entire ruling class, of the political class and not only. This communication has objectively built a risk condition in Italy and around the world. A risk controlled in our country thanks to the professionalism, matured in these many years of hard work, of our police forces, of our security bodies. This measure - Senator Floris is right - also contains an appreciable methodology, but it does not contain the tools for that methodology to be effectively distracted, as we all would like. I say this because the question must be attacked precisely from the point of view of the feeling, of the impression that we all live when we acquire the reality that is proposed to us: that of a society in danger, in which the question of security becomes essential for the performance of its activities. This is what must be attacked; let us remove it. A methodology is useful, it's okay that we talk about integrated security, but this also goes through the actual representation of the state of risk that the country actually runs, not what is supposed to be. We have seen many crimes consumed over the years: let us think of the robberies that have occurred in the most varied circumstances. From this point of view, the weakest were those who carried out activities towards the public: the workers of the shops, the gas stations, people, that is, who live in an objective risk condition, that arises from the fact that their profession puts them on the road, in the relationship with the people in a condition of difficulty. The answer in that case must be the one several times indicated: the control. In this measure there is: when it comes to surveillance service and the use of image recording technologies, it is undoubtedly a useful step forward. I would like to remind you that one of the many crimes that are consumed with a certain frequency is attacks on public administrators, who are called upon to act as security officers against citizens. Well, the use of video surveillance is one of the measures called for by the Commission of Inquiry into the phenomenon of intimidation against local administrators, chaired by Mr Lo Moro. We have done a job in this respect, I do not know where the interventions that the Ministry must put in place, but I hope they are at an advanced stage. However, I have the impression that, precisely because of the economic resources that, instead of giving, we are taking away the system of local autonomy, this type of work has not been done. Therefore, the one indicated in the measure is a right methodology; it calls not to responsibility but to participation the mayors, with a role that they have always had; it integrates the local police forces with those of the state; it does a just operation also from the cultural point of view, in the sense of identifying lines of intervention for the fight against poverty, marginalization and degradation. However, all this needs resources, investments that are not to lose but to earn, both from the perspective of the perception that citizens have of security, and from the economic point of view: it is a useful public expenditure, which guarantees those who work in economy and reassures those who have to work and produce income and wealth. So this measure is fine, but it lacks financial resources. Next week we will examine the DEF and an additional labour and we always have this kind of problem. Those who say that we must make a qualitative leap in economic policies, which must also accompany this type of intervention. It must be noted that the path of investment and therefore of public spending, which must be directed, not wasted and strengthened in that direction, is the right way to overcome the conditions of widespread economic difficulties, unemployment and so on, and it would also be a way to overcome this perception of insecurity, which is more perceived in our country, than really lived. [[Applause from the Misso-SI-SEL Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-04-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-807.ana.u53	Senator Mauro Mario is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-04-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-807.ana.u54	Mr President, I am speaking with a few words first of all to highlight a political fact: probably no measure, during this parliamentary term, has ever been able to benefit from a non-prejudice look by the centre-right oppositions such as that at our examination, namely the measure on urban security, which is moreover wanted by a minister to whom we recognize good will and competence, which, in addition, has repeatedly reproduced, in his speeches, the scheme previously stated by my colleague, Mr Floris, according to which security is not the subject of the left or the right. Why, then, given these premises, do we not reach a consensus on the measure, on the contrary, we take the distances with certainty and we want to represent, instead, a problem, this time yes, of method, that we think is the main problem of many measures adopted before by the Renzi Government and today by the Gentiloni Government? Because while the titles remain acceptable, the chapters are written not only approximate but almost counterproductive. The Democratic Party, in its legislative activity, seems marked by a sort of curse that is a legal nominalism misunderstanding: taken as a point of reference a certain objective, all the measures taken to achieve that objective, produce the opposite result. Proof of this is that Article 11 is written in such a way as to represent an objective reduction in the protection of private property and establishes factors of method and merit that, over time, will not only make evictions more complicated, but will produce a new conflict between the institutions. In fact, that splash of authority that has been wanted to incardinate within the measure, creating a potential conflict between prefect and magistrate or between prefect and mayor, represents the figure of a legislative gossip that gives the measure of what, behind the logic that must withstand measures of this scope, of this importance, there is, in reality, an approach that remains first of all communicative. And here I come to the second criticism. Federico Cafiero, officer of the Regia Marina Siciliana, already passed to the Italian one during the realization of the unitary State, was surprised on board his boat by an admiral from Piedmont extremely intransigent and punished because he slept while in service. He organized himself, therefore, for the successive times and gave disposition that on that ship everything was, in conjunction with the arrival of a superior officer, preceded by the order: "Facite ammuina" (Facite ammuina), a mechanism, that is, that it made possible, constantly moving, without any measure of substance, what happened on the ship, to make the authority understand that the ship was, precisely, in service. It seems to me that the logic of this measure is in line with the same principles. And the lack of resources that justify the possibility that those measures have positive results gives a sort of almost caricature note to the fact that you think of constantly moving those accused of begging or being part of small rackets from the center to the outskirts of a city, as if this can be really imagined as the spell that will solve the problem. Therefore, because there is legal nominalism and because there is only a communicative approach, which does not take account of the reality of the facts and does not take seriously the need for security denounced by our citizens and our communities, we are forced to distance ourselves from a measure that remains a profound disappointment. This is not so much, I repeat, for the merits that can be ascribed to the seriousness of the Minister, but because the Government and the majority do not emphasize with equal seriousness what should be a peculiarity of the legislation at this time, namely to ensure the same degree of intensity in the approach that our law enforcement forces and our security forces are taking to make our nights and our days more serene and certain. [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-04-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-807.ana.u55	She is registered to speak Senator Bisinella. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-04-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-807.ana.u56	Mr President, Mr Vice-Minister, ladies and gentlemen, even in our view, this measure, while taking a step forward in terms of security and control of the territory, risks remaining a measure-manifesto, a dead letter. In fact, in analyzing the various norms contained in it, although adopted in the form of the decree-law, therefore with extraordinary necessity and urgency, it absolutely does not respond to the demand for security and effective control on the territory that is raised by the local administrators, the mayors, the Forces of order present on the streets, the local police. This risk therefore to be another missed opportunity, although waited for many years now in terms of greater powers and possibility of intervention, also for the Forces of the order and for those who constantly, as local administrator, find to have to give the first answers of security to the citizens. This is a measure on urban security and therefore had to be thought of for security in cities and cities. However, although a good proclamation is made in the talk of a pact between the State, territorial authorities and local authorities for the control of the territory, the measures envisaged are substantially devoid of real scope, both innovative and, above all, substantial, in content and effectiveness. I refer in particular to Articles 9 and 10 of the text, where there is talk of expulsion, which can take place by order that is non-countable and urgent issued by the mayor, in order to deal with various situations, which may be of incivility or delinquency towards infrastructures, goods and works of the municipal reality and, in general, for all the various activities that can be put in the field against urban degradation and acts of crime and illegal acts. These measures are absolutely out of reach, if we think that a simple administrative sanction is imposed, ranging from 100 to 300 euros, or that a few hundred meters away from the place where the person who committed the wrongdoing is found can be arranged. We are aware that, in its practical deployment, the removal from the committee is an absolutely ineffective measure. All the more the payment of the administrative penalty is in fact meaningless if it is often imposed on people who are certainly not able to pay then and who, in order to avoid payment, depart. I am speaking of a lost opportunity, because in fact, even in the Commission, even with the cooperation of the opposition forces, who have always expressed their intention of helping to finally write clear and certain rules that can give answers, they did not want to hear the suggestions, which could be improved by the text. We who are part of a movement in Parliament that represents local administrators, who in their ranks have mayors and people who deal with these issues on the spot, in the cities, we have pointed out the need to give the police - and, in particular, the local police - the possibility of accessing georeferenced databases and of interconnection between the various video surveillance systems, with direct connection to the SDI and with the databases of the Ministry of the Interior. It is a proposal of common sense and logic, but in fact, to date, it is still prevented. We have also proposed much more incisive measures, for example to combat begging, including that done through the abuse and exploitation of children, animals and people with disabilities. Again, the powers left to the mayors are completely useless. I refer, moreover, to incisive interventions that provide for the arrest in flagrante or, at least, the possibility of holding the criminal for a prolonged period until all the necessary investigations are carried out, always in connection with the databases of the Ministry of the Interior. Basically, we have missed the opportunity to accept proposals for amendments which could have made the content of a measure which - I repeat - has been awaited for a long time, which certainly marks a minor step forward (but minimal) and which remains yet another missed opportunity to really offer this Parliament the opportunity to tackle together the real security node in urban territory. This issue cannot be left and put back only to the minimal possibilities of intervention that mayors today have. I conclude with a consideration, also this pragmatic, in terms of the economic possibilities that the municipalities have today to intervene, also in the light of the beautiful principles that are introduced in this decree-law. I am referring to the budgets, which are becoming increasingly difficult, especially in the small municipalities: local administrative police are being held responsible for the municipalities, which they cannot cope with, because in this measure the juice, the core and the substance, that is, the resources appropriate to enable them to intervene, have not been foreseen. I reserve the right to speak in the explanation of vote. The idea of trusting this measure seems to be around: it is an opportunity lost not only in its content, but also in its modalities, because in the Commission and in this House, with the right and proper times, which perhaps could have seen even a few days of debate, without wasting any more time, the text could have been improved and enriched. [[Applause from Senator Fucksia]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-04-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-807.ana.u57	Senator Zuffada is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-04-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-807.ana.u58	Mr President, until recently demonstrations by citizens who referred to centre-right parties were being challenged by the centre-left; as if we were the victim of an optical illusion, when we systematically argued that there was - and there is - a deterioration in the condition of the security of citizens and that in our cities and our municipalities there is a worsening of urban decorum, with realities (places and above all certain environments and certain sections of popular houses and others) for which there seems to be no rule, no rule and no rule and no law, because they consider themselves areas in which everyone dictates their own rules. I have noted - with sympathy, from a certain point of view - a certain differentiation of behaviour on the part of the current Minister of the Interior with respect to the previous Government, then chaired by Matteo Renzi. He spent his days not dealing with the concrete problems of our cities, but doing press conferences, slogans and communications that did not, however, lead over time to greater confidence, but to a distrust of the citizens towards the State and the Government. The only positive fact that is found today is the behaviour of the Minister of the Interior, who does less press conferences, appears less and has stated - I have read it in today's newspapers - that security is not a fact; it is a feeling, a proposal, a certainty and that there is a difference between real security and perceived security. And data is brought along that shows a reduction in thefts and complaints. It may be true, but this is also due to the distrust of the citizen who, when he suffers theft in homes and other abuses, almost no longer turns to the police or police to make a complaint because he believes that he has not followed so much. The measure that involves the greater involvement of the mayors is certainly very positive, but (as my colleagues mentioned earlier) it is good intentions because in reality if we do not allocate the adequate resources in terms of personnel and economics it will not lead to any result. Once again, it will be a policy of facade and, above all, there will never be certainty for the citizen: when an order is issued, even if it is counted and urgent, in the end it will not find practical implementation. From this come the discouragement of the citizens, the insecurity and the lack of confidence in the administrations and the state. This is the most deteriorating aspect. The last facts of the news have even more determined this sense of insecurity towards the State because when you read that subjects who have received sheets of street for four or five years and are still on the national territory, it means that you give indications and rules that the State does not enforce. Citizens who pay their taxes, on the basis of this, would expect guarantees for their safety, tranquillity and compliance with the rules. This is unfortunately not happening and if you do not take the appropriate measures, as they are suggested, things will not change and the feeling of insecurity instead of decreasing will tend to increase. [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-04-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-807.ana.u59	Senator Favero is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-04-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-807.ana.u60	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the objective of the decree-law before us is to increase the security and freedom of citizens by means of effective means through the involvement of the institutions. To do this, the person is placed at the heart of government action. I am referring in particular to the populations of the outskirts and areas of the city that are degraded and less safe, where there are social tensions and where these have increased since the crisis that is continuing. There are disused areas and there are grey areas where disused buildings and factories are occupied. We have data from 2015 that tell us that 26.6 percent of the thefts actually took place in the metropolitan cities, both in the North and in the South of the country. In 2016 (these are the data of the other day provided by the chief of police Gabrielli) we had a decrease in crime of 8.6 percent, confirmed also in the first months of 2017, and in Italy the crime is lower than the average of Europe, especially in the murders: of this we must take note. But there is a perception, that of security, that among our communities instead tells of realities that are in the hands of criminals and criminals and for this there is a strong and serious responsibility of the mass media. There is a decrease instead and we owe it - I say it loud and clear - precisely to the efficiency of the Forces of Order. This measure then deals with prevention and repression and does so not only by tightening up criminal administrative sanctions, as has always been the case. There is article 1, dedicated to integrated security, to which paragraph 2-a - which has been inserted by the Chamber - it is expected that contribute to the promotion of integrated security the interventions for urban redevelopment and security in the outskirts of the metropolitan cities, for which we have allocated resources for 8.5 billion euros. When we talk about a lack of resources, we may not understand that there is integration and that we are talking about integrated security. With the 2017 budget law, we approved for the period 2017-2019 the urban suburbs redevelopment programme (it was presented here in the presence of Renzo Piano and the Renzi Government): for it we have allocated 2.1 billion euros that are already operational for 124 cities, in addition to the metropolitan areas. Piedmont has already enjoyed 128 million. We support this decree-law because it clearly defines urban security, which is a public good, and is linked to social redevelopment. It concerns the livability and decorum of cities that are obtained through urban, social, cultural redevelopment, the recovery of degraded areas, the elimination of social exclusion factors, the prevention of crime, the promotion of culture and respect for legality. The measure improves the institutional structure by defining who does and what does. The State, through its prefects and quaestors, deals exclusively with public order and security but, on the other hand, it promotes agreements with the regions and municipalities to achieve integrated security, define clear competences and ensure that there are no overlaps. Then it is clearly recognized the important function of the local police that is not of series B (different tasks are assigned to the Forces of the Order) and that becomes with all police force of proximity. Pending an organic reform, information exchange, cooperation between local police and police forces, access to databases, interconnection with operating rooms are envisaged, and this promotes updating, exchange, but also vocational training. To move on to the topic of the work that we have analyzed in the Commission, the decree-law restores for local police officers the fair compensation and reimbursement of the expenses of stay for reasons of service: 2.5 million euros since 2017. Other resources that were not there and that had been eliminated by the Monti Government in 2011. The fair compensation relates to death, unfortunately, for reasons of service and physical, mental and sensory impairments related to the performance of the activity: a forecast that had been cancelled. The danger of the valuable work carried out by local police officers is therefore concretely recognised. In addition, Article 7 also recognizes the municipalities that have achieved a balanced budget of hiring local police personnel without a time limit in order to strengthen the activity of control of the territory. Moreover, the decree-law increases the power of the mayors and therefore of the municipalities in the prevention of crimes, that is the rule of the urban Daspus that strengthens the role of the mayors. It is therefore a useful tool to prevent those who are relapsed on certain types of crime from staying in some areas of the city for a certain period. Then there are the deferred arrest and intervention in the matter of arbitrary occupation of buildings, by which we define the paths through which the authority can make available the public force to proceed to the eviction in execution of measures of the judicial authority. Finally, in the context of urban decorum interventions, measures are envisaged to combat, in particular, the phenomenon of so-called writers. In conclusion, I would like to point out that security is the result of measures to prevent and suppress discomfort and crime; to requalify the suburbs and degraded areas improves safety and we are laying the foundations for this measure with a total of 5.6 billion which have been allocated in the last four stability laws that I have had the honour to vote in this legislature; before, unfortunately, cuts had been made which had resulted in a reduction of 4 billion in the defence and security sector in three years. These 5.6 billion allocated by the stability laws that I voted for are deeds and not words. Security is a right that must be guaranteed by the State; it allows citizens to live and be freed from fear. That is why I hope that the decree-law we are debating will soon be converted into law, in order to fully implement these measures which are expected of the mayors, but above all of our citizens. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator Council is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-04-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-807.ana.u61	Mr President, if we were to ask the Italians - if there were ever any need - what are the main areas that the government should address first, I believe that security would, moreover, be, for a long time, among the main indications expressed. Among other things, one of the main effects of this attention of the public opinion is the increasing diffusion of the idea that personal self-defense is legitimate and ethically acceptable. We are not talking about rejecting the idea that we should compensate those who have been hit for damage caused by access to their homes and their safety. In this country, the time it takes to design a theft is greater than what you would spend in prison if you were arrested. Those who have suffered a home invasion know well that, if the thief is arrested, in less than 48 hours he is free and for those who have been raped at home, considering his domicile, his particular personal matters, forty-eight hours do not even serve to dispose of the shock: for the ill-headed robbed two months are not even enough to put the house in order and meanwhile the thief is definitely elsewhere. There are 200,000 properties robbed in a year, one blow every two minutes, Mr President; only 6,000 people are arrested, while 97% of the thefts are unpunished, which means that 97% of the cases are not caught by the villain thief who is still serving zero days in prison. The Italian society, this country is already oppressed by mafia, camorra and 'ndrangheta and the domestic thieves and thieves of which we are already full are enough for us and we advance; certainly we do not need fresh forces coming from other countries or at least in part directly linked to that evil immigration policy of the two or three previous governments, that have not brought good political indications. Do you remember that amendment to the Code of Criminal Procedure on precautionary measures? It has not been approved in this House for a long time. Well, that was also a way, to which a different name was given, to deal in an unserious way with the emptying of prisons. How many have we done with these measures before? As early as 2006, Prodi's indult released 26,000 prisoners and in the next five years a third of these inmates returned to crime, returning to occupy the prison patriae. How many times, Mr President, have we stood up in this House to ask for effective and urgent interventions, interventions that are no longer procrastinable, especially from the point of view of the citizens, who have legitimate expectations of being protected by the person who institutionally has the task, namely the State? How often did we hear this legitimate request from us respond that it was pure populism, that we wanted only to profit for electoral purposes, that we were blowing on the fire of fear and that we were riding these fears to embarrass the citizens, especially those entitled to vote? Even a large part of the policy has accused us of over amplifying, if not irresponsible, these phenomena. Some people continue to call them small phenomena: robberies at home, many times with violence, are considered small phenomena. We are talking about safety as if we were talking about time, a warm or a cold perceived, as if citizens had a perception of the problem and of fear amplified with respect to reality. We believe that exactly the opposite is true and you have not yet fully understood the seriousness of this problem. Well, this measure, which has already been examined by the House of Deputies, comes to this House, which in its high-sounding title contains urgent provisions on the safety of cities. The decree-law consists of some articles on which we of the minority have certainly worked well, a work that both the House and the Senate saw us protagonists in an attempt to modify it, certainly to improve it, but clearly without success. Something has been done in the House; yet another confidence will be placed here in the Senate, but we will talk about it in a moment. Trust stifles the timing of the debate, not to mention the fact that all the amendments have been rejected, although it is good that you have accepted some of our agendas; moreover, an agenda is not denied to anyone. In this measure we speak of a chain of collaboration that starts from the mayor, passes through the Province, to the Regions and arrives to the State. In fact, it starts from the state, with this measure, the idea that everything goes to the mayor, the new lightning rod. Mr President, those who did the mayor - as I said in the debate in the Commission - know very well that, even without this law, the mayor has always been the first bulwark that has its own security mission. Which mayor did not take care of all these issues indicated in some articles, from urban furniture to lighting to video surveillance? Some mayors have come up with some sort of volunteering to make sure the territory was controlled, but you didn't like it either. Maroni himself - it is true - had valued his role, but remember when you were in the minority, how many screams did you send him from your desks and you spoke already at the time of the mayors sheriff? And what have these mayors become by law now? What about economics? The projects and the promotion of security, as without money, without a change, make sure. The recovery of the centers, the urban redevelopment: but what is the mayor who does not want to do all this? You hungry them, you reduced them to mere tax collectors, real gabelliers. Other than doing urban redevelopment works. What about the provinces? Now you remember their existence, after you have battered them, starved them and considered useless bodies. They don't even have the money to plug the holes, anything but urban security: they can't even guarantee the safety of those who walk the road. Above all - let us be serious - it is not from them that we expect a process of security linked to a chain that we find at least scared in the motivations. Without money it does not work: safety - you have to have the courage to say it - costs, it is not free, because it is good, like health, and nobody is scandalized when they say that health costs and in it you have to invest; so it is also for safety. What do we do instead? It is dumped on Municipalities and Provinces, which are already on the gas barrel as far as budgets are concerned. Well, after four years of torpor, now we had the feeling that something was moving seriously, but the first six or seven articles are just statements of principle and give definitions that already existed. You have invented a resounding duplication of the provincial committee for public order and security with a new metropolitan committee that will never have any purpose. The Daspo - alive God! - we liked it and it seemed a good solution, so these subjects that are now an integral part of our urban furniture could be removed with an order from the mayor. Instead, if you go to read the text, you realize that you can apply the Daspus to those who prevent access to port or railway areas and airports or the free use of school complexes, museums or other. Mr. President, where do you live? Who doesn't get into a museum or church or take a train? What did you write in this provision? By train and on buses, there are those who give a shit about their mobile phone or wallet; in airports and port areas they steal the stolen one. [[The microphone is automatically switched off.]] You don't have to take my time, Mr. President. PRESIDENT. - The debate is We didn't steal it from her, we gave her more time, but she should finish. There has also been talk of abusive valets, but the law enforcement agencies have 100,000 fewer units, nothing but security! A mayor cannot hire a vigilante, except in respect of budgetary constraints: this is really good. In conclusion, the Group of the North League has set its political battle around some fundamental concepts: a different idea of urban security, with the corresponding accentuation of the use of the deterrent and repressive instruments of general law and a restoration of what has been repealed previously; we have proposed to penalize some of the cases for which the administrative sanction had been imposed and we spokesperson of the instances reported by the associations that group the local police. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-04-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-807.ana.u62	We didn't steal her time, Senator Council, we gave her a little more, as was right.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-04-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-807.ana.u63	On behalf of the Assembly, I greet the teachers and students of the State Science High School "Giordano Bruno" in Grumo Nevano, in the province of Naples, who are attending our works. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-04-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-807.ana.u64	Senator Giovanardi is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-04-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-807.ana.u65	Mr President, taking advantage of the presence of Deputy Minister Bubbico, I would like to raise a particular issue concerning this decree-law. I have tabled an amendment which, if the question of trust were to be raised, unfortunately could not be dealt with, voted on or turned into an agenda, which refers to an experience I have had, but which concerns all of Italy, historic centres and suburbs, urban decorum and people's safety. On a television show I was challenged by the citizens of the EUR Quarter Committee - which is part of the historic centre of Rome - outraged at the degradation of the area. We are talking about a neighborhood where there is a famous church and the Palace of Italian civilization, therefore one of the most prestigious places in Rome. Ingenuously, since it is my job, I gladly agreed to go and see, convinced that then there would be a way to solve their problem with the prefect, the quaestor or the carabinieri. I went one night to do a recon with them: what actually happens? It happens that prostitution is practiced in the open air. In fact, prostitution is practiced under the streetlights, right in the historic center. They explained to me, and I also went to do a verification (theoretical, non-practical, of course), that relationships are consumed under streetlights because so both viados and prostitutes of various nationalities are sure not to be attacked. And then all their needs satisfy them in the streets and streets of the area, where they throw the used condoms, of course in a reality where there are children, mothers and grandparents who accompany them home from school. I managed to arrange a meeting with the committee, the prefect, the quaestor and the commander of the carabinieri. I call upon the Deputy Minister to be so kind as to pay attention to this issue, because I am putting before her a problem that seems to me to be quite important. At the summit held at the police station in Rome, with the prefecture, the carabinieri and the committee, it was reported by all the authorities that, having decriminalized the crime of obscene acts in public place, if the bum comes to defecate in front of the door of your house or the prostitute, in fact, has relationships under your house, in front of the children, the only thing you can do is fine them, impose an administrative penalty that, of course, they will never pay. They can't stop them anymore. I do not know whether in Paris, New York, or in any civil metropolis in the world, those who conduct this kind of behaviour are given a violation then can continue their activity. I understand that this decree-law takes a step forward, saying that there is the Daspus; in the sense that those who hold behaviors of that type can prevent access to the historic center and, like the fan does not go to the stadium, they do not go to the EUR. But there is the problem of those who return to the place and again do their outdoor needs, bivouac, exercise prostitution among the people and also beat: because the Viados are rather aggressive, they threaten and intimidate. I, in fact, have examined how the subject is dealt with in the decree-law and I have seen that everything returns as before. Because for the fan hit by Daspo who returns to the stadium can trigger the handcuffs, while for those who return to the place and start practicing what I mentioned before can be imposed only an administrative penalty. Vice-Minister Bubbico, but can we, to the citizens exasperated by these behaviors, say that there is nothing to do because with the decriminalization of obscene acts in public place that is only a criminal offence and can no longer stop those who carry out these acts? But the EUR is like Piazza del Pantheon, from this point of view, and the same thing could happen in Piazza del Pantheon, where, since there is no longer the crime of obscene acts, someone carrying out these activities in front of everyone can only give a violation; if someone starts to do his needs in Piazza del Pantheon, the vigilant arrives, contests the violation and cannot stop him. You could say, "But Giovanardi, what are you saying?" That's what we found in the prefecture summit. The members of the committee protested vibrantly, but the response of the police, the prefecture and the carabinieri is that they have their hands tied because, having been decriminalized the crime, there is nothing to do in this way. Therefore, the amendment that I have tabled provides that, especially when there are minors, families and health-care risks, with serious attitudes of this kind, the gentleman or the lady can also be stopped, denounced and, as it was up to two years ago, received a penalty. Obscene acts in public places, in fact, before decriminalization were criminally sanctionable. Do we want to intervene at least in these extraordinary situations, which prevent the livability of entire neighborhoods and which drive people crazy? When the committees are hosted on television, their members accuse politics, Parliament and the Government, of addressing only theoretical issues. I am not talking here about the gigantic problem of immigration or about the epochal problems that we face and of which I understand all the difficulties. I'm just talking about some measures that allow people to live free in their own home, to go out in the evening with children and to walk, without confronting disgusting situations from a hygienic and sanitary point of view. I am sorry, Deputy Minister, that the measure reached in the Senate has already been approved by the House, otherwise a small change would have been necessary, which I advise the Government to include in a next measure to give an answer to the needs of the people and answer a more than legitimate question. That is, to prevent our streets, our squares and our places, even the most important ones from an architectural, artistic point of view and for their fame all over the world, from being reduced in this way. What can a foreigner think that goes there to visit the historic center, the heart of the EUR, and finds himself living with these dramatic situations? I went and, at some point, I saw a police patrol, which I didn't charge; I was with the people on the neighborhood committee. The patrol approached a prostitute. When she left, I asked the lady what they said to her, and she said they asked her if everything was okay. I thought, "Wow, that sounds like a decided intervention." Then he asked me of course if I wanted to consume, I replied that I had to do and I reached the committee. This is to explain the climate in which the inhabitants of the neighborhood live. I take with the benefit of inventory what this lady told me about the cops - we would miss something else - but also that evening I saw the cars of the police and police in front of this phenomenon and it is clear that citizens when they see these things, they cannot find an answer to their problems. I add more; behind this company of viados and prostitutes of various ethnicities, there will also be an organization, someone who provides them with food and who leads them there. I therefore believe that, with a little good will, we can, in addition to re-introduce the rules on obscene acts in a public place (maybe qualifying serious obscene acts, as you wish, to avoid the usual accusation of being well-thinking), also deepen the investigation of those who occupy an entire neighborhood or other neighborhood of Rome. I mentioned EUR because in the television broadcast I spoke of there was an exasperation of that reality, which is also the historic centre. I therefore hope that my intervention will serve to raise awareness among the Government - since, unfortunately, these measures can no longer be included in this measure - to improve the speech, which I welcome, to introduce a particular and stricter legislation with regard to historic centres, but remembering that there are not only the latter. However, I regret that, since the question of trust will be raised on this measure, I am in a position to vote on a vote of no confidence, and also regret that, for the umpteenth time, it has not been possible to find a convergence, because it is impossible precisely because of the vote of confidence, on rules that seem to me of common sense, that can meet the consensus of 99.9% of the citizens who risk in their neighborhoods and in their reality to live the same tragic experience that the inhabitants of the euro area are living today. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. She is registered to speak Senator Granaiola. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-04-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-807.ana.u66	Mr President, the need to address the issue of urban security is certainly very much felt not only in large cities, but also in smaller municipalities where, albeit in decline, thefts are still widespread in homes, muggings, pickpocketings and burglaries that most affect the perception of safety and that mainly affect those considered weaker as women and the elderly, in their environment and in everyday life. Unfortunately, these are crimes that, in addition to the economic and physical damage, generate deep psychological wounds that are difficult to overcome, but which are fueled by the economic, cultural and social crisis that are nested in particular in urban degradation and in the outskirts too often forgotten. This measure seeks to address the issue of security with an integrated vision that sees the State, the territorial authorities and other institutional entities contribute, each within the framework of their own competences and responsibilities, to the promotion and implementation of a unitary and integrated system for the well-being of the territorial communities, linking the prevention and the work of repression to the actions of redevelopment of the suburbs and the most degraded places of the cities. Unfortunately, in my opinion, in my opinion, nebulous and generic, urban security is defined as a public good afferent to the livability and decorum of the cities; there are some areas of intervention aimed at promoting it, such as urban, social and cultural redevelopment, the recovery of degraded areas and sites, the prevention of crime, in particular of predatory type, the promotion of the culture of respect for legality and the elimination of the factors of marginality and social exclusion. This is, in my opinion, one of the first painful points of the decree-law because it is one of the factors that should be addressed with welfare measures and not with such a measure. The concept of urban security should therefore be defined more clearly so that the areas of action are correct and do not undermine the fundamental rights of people. The government of this systemic action is built on the basis of integrated agreements and actions between the state and local governments, and in particular Article 5 identifies as an instrument for the promotion of security in cities the pacts for the implementation of urban security, signed by the prefect and the mayor, who, affecting specific local contexts, identify concrete interests to be put in place. The mayors, under Article 8, are assigned a new role and new administrative tools in addition to those already provided for in Article 50 of the TEU in case of health emergencies or public hygiene. Speaking on the power of order, when there is an urgent need for interventions aimed at overcoming situations of serious neglect or degradation of the territory, the mayor will be able to intervene in the matter of sales times (also by taking away) and administration of alcoholic and super alcoholic beverages with measures aimed at preventing and combating criminal phenomena or illegality, such as drug dealing and violence, also related to alcohol abuse. However, it should be verified that the power to inhibit such activities is actually conferred on the basis of proven requirements for the protection of public order and public security and in the event of a clearly identified damage to public interests, such as those relating to freedom, human dignity, social utility and the health of citizens. Article 9 provides for the simultaneous imposition of a financial administrative penalty from 100 to 300 euros - forgive me, but I think it is very difficult to collect sanctions - and the removal from the place of those who have prevented the accessibility and use of railway infrastructure and appliances, airports, etc.; the same applies to urban areas where there are schools, school complexes, museums, archaeological parks or places affected by substantial tourist flows, or areas with public greenery, for those who exercise abusive trade and those who exercise parking activities or abusive machinery guards. Another painful note, in my opinion, of this decree-law: compared to those who exercise the abusive trade or those who exercise the activities of valet parker or watchman abuse, it would be important to provide for local police activities aimed, rather than at the removal, at the identification of those who hold the ranks of the organization of such illegal activities. Article 10 lays down the implementing modalities of the measure (configured as a kind of mini-Daspo) but in this case Senator Dirindin is right when she says that it is necessary to distinguish whether it is people who are delinquote or who are silently asking for help. To this end, it would be more appropriate to provide for welfare measures to protect those who are marginalised and who do not only lead to unnecessary, harmful and, above all, uncivilised displacement of the problem to another place. No less important is the need to clarify as soon as possible the criteria for allocating resources for the installation of video surveillance systems. In addition, in order to avoid misunderstandings about video surveillance systems and consequent administrative disputes, it would be useful to highlight the need that such systems, installed by local administrations for the purposes of order and public security referred to in this law, fall in the case referred to in Legislative Decree No 259 of 2003 and that, precisely for the intended purposes, local authorities are not required to pay additional contributions and concession or authorisation fees. With regard to Article 14 on the single European number, competition procedures are provided for the recruitment of personnel with appropriate characteristics only for regions which have met the budgetary objectives and if there is no redundant or mobile staff. However, it should be made clear whether 'appropriate characteristics' also mean those in the field of health, given that the calls of 118 should also be included in 112. It would also be important to provide effective instruments for monitoring the measures taken to ensure that the needs of greater urban security do not clash with the protection of fundamental human rights. I conclude my speech with a strong recommendation that this measure should not bring into conflict urban security and fundamental rights of people, in particular as regards the elimination of the factors of marginality and social exclusion that cannot be dealt with through repressive initiatives, but through adequate social policies and above all with adequate resources to stem and really combat the situations of discomfort that - alas - mayors, in the absence of resources, will hardly be able to deal with and resolve. It's a matter of civilization. [[Applause from the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and ……]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-04-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-807.ana.u67	He's enlisted to speak Senator Langella. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-04-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-807.ana.u68	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the measure we are examining today at a first evaluation seems to go in the right direction, that is, a direction that takes into account the fact that there is a security problem in our cities and that, in the population, the demand for security itself is increasingly legitimate. It seems to us, therefore, that the Government wanted to strike the imagination of the Italians by focusing on the coordination between the State, Regions, Provinces and mayors who, all together, are promoting this legal good, that is, the inclusive security not only of the traditional concept of public order but also of the most aesthetic one of urban decorum. At first evaluation, the measure strengthens the powers of the mayors, quaestors and prefects, through rules in themselves to a large extent reasonable although some doubt may be raised about the extension of the powers of the mayors' order. However, it is the overall system that does not convince us. We are not convinced by the initial approach, when we read in the report that the new society, which is now tending to be multi-ethnic, requires (...) a series of measures to reassure the global civil community, aimed at strengthening the perception that public institutions contribute together to the management of the consequent problems, in the higher interest of social cohesion. It is natural to wonder whether a multi-ethnic society is the only or the main factor causing insecurity; moreover, it seems to us that the Government is more concerned with strengthening the perception of the efficiency of public institutions rather than their real efficiency, especially in terms of prevention. What does reassurance mean for public opinion? We believe that we must refer to the concrete effects of the measures that are being taken in the field, and not just symbolic ones. It would be desirable for the Government, alongside this approach, to build a further pillar of active social cohesion policies aimed at addressing at the root the risks of widespread illegality and degradation of our cities. For example, considering with serious investment and adequate resources the effects of the economic crisis, unemployment, the disintegration of the family and social fabric or at least by investing in urban regeneration, especially in the outskirts, in schools and in centres of aggregation. We think, in fact, that the effectiveness of the repression of illegality widespread in the cities or the strengthening of the feeling of security also depends on what happens in the world, not only in terms of the management of immigration, but also in terms of governance of the complex social and economic phenomena that contribute to producing individual, family and social crises and, with them, deviance and marginality. Faced with this scenario, it will certainly not be the increased powers conferred on quaestors, mayors and prefects to be decisive in the phenomena of widespread illegality that threaten the security of the cities. It would be necessary, in fact, first of all, even before resorting to repression with the financial sanctions or the interdictive measures provided for in the decree, to imagine and implement the implementation of an organic prevention strategy. It would be enough to make local reference to the specific social and Community prevention measures that are widespread in the most advanced European democracies such as the Netherlands, France and the United Kingdom, to mention the most well-known new prevention models at international level, with particular reference to those at high risk of social exclusion and peripheral areas. What creates concern is the definition of security provided for in Article 4 of the Decree, which presupposes a very ambitious welfare project, which is accompanied by inadequate operational tools. The lack of coherence between the proposed instruments and the objectives set out in the decree is clear. For example, we wonder what administrative orders, security pacts and urban Daspos, which are instruments of control, have to do with social cohesion. Certainly they are not instruments of any use in the elimination of marginality and social exclusion factors, an objective for which other measures are needed. Just to give an example, just remember that the phenomenon of prostitution can certainly not be a problem that resolves by relegating it to the category of decorum. Similarly, the abusive street trade has seen the prosecutors of the Republic and the Forces of the order committed to trace the chain of illegality that carries on the road the products for sale, whether counterfeit or not. On the other hand, the approach proposed by the measure, which is not to address upstream problems, seems to be oriented towards more symbolic than potentially effective intervention. Predatory crime, which statistically is the main source of fear in the urban area, because it can strike anyone indiscriminately, is not enough alone to explain the feeling of insecurity deriving from the perception of crime, since the fear of crime is not closely connected to the actual extent of the crimes but, more generally, to the increasing urban hardships that penalize the civil coexistence and the quality of urban living, especially in the degraded areas and in the ghettos neighbourhoods. I also recall the absence of primary infrastructure, the lack of public lighting, the problems arising from drug addiction and irregular immigration, but also the general context associated with this situation, namely the spread of situations of social vulnerability and the risk of poverty and social exclusion. Article 9 provides for the mayor to take measures to sanction the conduct which restricts the free accessibility and use of railway, airport, maritime and public transport infrastructure, which may be accompanied by a removal order. The removal can also be arranged against those who are found in a state of drunkenness, perform acts contrary to public decency or exercise abusive trade. Basically, the removal order imposed by the mayor, as a local public security authority, seems to constitute a sort of mini-Daspo, borrowed from the prohibition of access to sporting events provided for by Law No 401 of 1989. Relapse in illegal conduct involves the possible adoption by the quaestor of a ban on access (the so-called urban Daspus) for a maximum of six months. We therefore reflect on the first impact that the text refers to types of subjects addressed to urban security action that recall to memory the usual figures of social danger of nineteenth-century memory: idle, wanderers, prostitutes, drunks, beggars and so on. Moreover, the Daspus discipline does not seem to adapt to the types of deviance it intends to counter. It is in fact a tool created to limit and prevent the violent conducts of the most aggressive typhoseries, which are by their nature limited in time. It is difficult to imagine that the same instrument, aimed at people who are concentrated in certain places of our cities because it lacks other points of reference, is equally effective. It is reasonable to think that, even if they actually drift away, they will move to a different place in the city, where they will have the same conducts that they would like to prevent. In other words, the Daspus may seem able to locate elsewhere, perhaps in the outskirts, the problems related to social marginality, without any possibility of affecting the causes. Ultimately, it seems to us that this measure tends to relegate urban security within the limited scope of municipal criminal law or punitive administrative law, already experienced with Maroni security packages. The experience of the following years has shown us the lack of effectiveness of union orders in the matter of safety and the inadequacy of many local pacts for safety. Without a solid anchoring to the social preventive policies adopted at local and regional level in most European countries in recent years, the instruments provided for by the current decree-law risk making the mayors even more responsible, without recognizing them a real possibility of having a serious influence on the factors of marginality and deviance affecting their cities. On the contrary, we are convinced that social security and urban security are now equivalent. It is only to be added that in our country, as a result of social and cultural transformations, this urban adjectivation seemed the most suitable to represent a new perspective that was consolidating. In other words, security is not only a matter of public order, and therefore police, according to the equal security equation public order, but it is a good to build. Will more video surveillance and security systems be enough? Of course we need a plurality of actions that must be encouraged, but above all we need training measures that encourage forms of education to legality with initiatives of a predominantly cultural nature. We must, therefore, reflect on a set of signs of a social degradation that is advancing, causing the fall of solidarity harmony, the growth of social discomfort and the perception of risk. Too bad, because this measure misses the opportunity to address the issue in a more complete way and according to a perspective that looks above all at the removal of the causes that give rise to those behaviors that create a sense of social insecurity. We are afraid, therefore, that this measure will remain a commercial measure, unproductive of real and decisive effects. [[Applause from the ALA-SCCLP Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-04-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-807.ana.u69	She's registered to speak Senator De Petris. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-04-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-807.ana.u70	Mr President, I could give many definitions of this decree-law, but one in particular I believe that it can adapt to describe it: it is almost an assumption by the Government (and, in particular, by Minister Minniti, probably jointly with Minister Orlando), through the form of the decree-law, therefore in a completely ideological way, of what Pope Francis calls the "culture of waste," which distinguishes - alas - our epoch. The Deputy Minister doesn't mind if I say so, because, in reality, one tries to do a very heavy operation, so everything that is social marginality and social suffering (we are talking about people in a state of discomfort) is considered as a kind of rejection to be removed, to be hidden. For this reason I say that the provision is almost a way to internalize, through a legislative form, what the Pope calls "the culture of waste," certainly not in a positive sense, but to stigmatize the sign of the epoch, which considers human beings and living beings only as a waste. In fact, Article 4 attempts are made to give a definition, which I believe to be pompous and hypocritical, of urban security by saying that this is a public good that affixes to the livability and decorum of the city, to be pursued also through redevelopment, also urban, social and cultural. All sentences made and to intervene for redevelopment and make our cities livable, it is said that the cause of disqualification - I use exactly the opposite of the term "requalification" - and of degradation are the people who bother like those who ask for alms, who sleep in stations, who have problems of discomfort and, moreover, it is thought that, to do this operation, the tools to be given to the mayors to face these problems are of pure administrative nature in the worst sense of the term. The famous ordinances, even those which cannot be counted and urgent, are put back on the ground and - as Minister Maroni did, who rightly attacked the left bitterly at the time - the possibility of going beyond the powers of the mayors, therefore, beyond the ordinances and emergency measures that are today linked to public health and other interventions of this kind. This is the operation that is being carried out which, in my opinion, is completely ideological and very serious and dangerous. Before, Senator Granaiola hoped that all this would not conflict with civilization and rights. Actually, he's in a lot of trouble. The operation, in fact, that is done in order to guarantee safety, livability and decor is to make available to the mayors of the fake instruments that would give them the possibility to remove the harassed people from the good living rooms and historical centers. There will be circuits for which we will move people from street to neighborhood and from street to neighborhood, giving the mayors an illusion and responsibility. This decree tells the mayors that they now have the power and that they can deal with problems that they could not solve so far. It's a false illusion. I don't understand why the mayors didn't oppose the decree. In all these years, as a result of the succession of stability laws that they had, local authorities have been constantly lacking transfers, particularly on social matters. At the same time, due to the crisis and a number of factors, including desertification of the welfare system, social distress has increased. The problems and the number of people that ISTAT tells us are constantly in almost absolute poverty have increased. No instruments are being put in place to combat poverty and social exclusion. They are not given tools on the social and not only - then I will return - to the mayors and they are told to be quiet because with the decree they will have the possibility to remove the problems, but not to solve them. The problems would be the most difficult people: this is the operation that is being done. I tell the mayors to be very careful, because in the end this decree-law will be against them, because it does not give them the tools or the resources to really carry out a serious operation that can guarantee the livability of our neighborhoods, but they put into their hands very questionable instruments - as I have already said in the illustration of the question - from the very constitutional point of view. In fact, among other things, another operation is carried out: on the one hand it is almost an operation of criminalization of poverty, so those who are poor and those who are in difficulty are now committing a crime. This is said in this decree, because the predictions of Daspus, which had only been conceived for sporting events, extend to certain situations of poverty. We had predicted this several times that this would happen sooner or later and that these rules would be extended to other cases as well. It is therefore possible, first with these ordinances and then with the Daspus (i.e. with measures that are in the power of the mayor and quaestors), to remove people. I wonder, then, if a person is a criminal, he must be arrested, but if a person sleeps at the station, should he not intervene to try to solve that problem? If a person is evicted and no longer has a home (and there are many forced to live perhaps in a car), do not apply the removal order! Perhaps the government should take care to ensure that the mayors have the opportunity to intervene on the discomfort, even housing, that in large urban areas is still enormous today. I could give other examples, such as prostitution, since it has been widely used. I turn to Senator Giovanardi: with these ordinances we may move them from street to street, until we have made the tour of all roads and start the game again, because we are talking about this. There are no resources in this decree. The only resources have been allocated to cameras and surveillance. Let me make a joke: we hope that they are all infrared cameras, because in our cities (I am from Rome) we have a problem, for some time now, with public lighting. We have entire neighborhoods in the dark. We have seen the desertification of the neighborhoods, because with the mania and the drive of the malls, there is no more the neighborhood and neighborhood trade and this results in a severe blow to livability and security. Instead of addressing these problems and placing resources in order to guarantee really redevelopment operations, we write poems to say: look that urban security is a common good, it is a public good; we have to do urban, social and cultural redevelopment. The urban redevelopment in most cases meant only more cement and other dorm quarters and we before this give the mayors the tools to issue ordinances. The ordinances will end the same as the decree Maroni of 2008 before the Constitutional Court and we transform the ordinances into administrative instruments with implications that will end in the criminal field. Not to mention the ridiculousness of the bracelets that aren't even for the real delinquents and we keep writing a series of stupidities. The serious aspect is the ideological operation that you are carrying out, with which you criminalize poverty and social exclusion and also delude yourself to doing some small electoral operation. If they are to vote out of fear, citizens vote directly on the League, they do not vote on you. You carry out a serious and dangerous operation and, above all, risk putting in the hands of the mayors useless instruments that also risk being a boomerang against the mayors themselves. [[Applause from the Misso-SI-SEL Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-04-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-807.ana.u71	Senator Bernini is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-04-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-807.ana.u72	Mr President, I would like to use these few minutes to conclude the speeches which have characterized the position of the Group we represent, to make a sort of resumé of the reasons why we cannot vote in favour of this decree-law, of course without gratitude for the excellent work done by the rapporteur Pagliari and for his limited willingness to play, but I must say that there was on the agenda by Deputy Minister Bubbico, who might have wanted but could not, because the times were characterized by quotas and the ways of trust. Senator Malan rightly said that the need and urgency of the measure under discussion are not well understood. He recalled, for example, Mr Zuffada, who spoke after Senator Malan, that this is a rule that evokes very closely and even reports whole passages of sentences of the decree Maroni of 2008. And Mrs De Petris is right to say that some aspects of the 2008 Maroni decree have been the subject of the constitutional court's scrutiny and censorship and unfortunately, rather than taking the good aspects, those that have survived and have given good evidence of themselves in recent years, the decree-law under consideration takes exactly those that have been censored and dismissed by the Supreme Court. This is what is absolutely incomprehensible to us and this is what Senator Mario Mauro evoked in his speech. We also do not understand whether, within a context that assumes necessity and urgency, we can use manifest and propagandistic expressions, such as those indicated in Articles 4 and 5 of the decree-law, which even give a definition of the concept of urban security as if it were invented, while it is present in the decree Maroni, in the pacts for safety and, colleagues, I tell you, there was already in 1997 when the concept of integrated security was invented, so much so that it, rather than an innovation, becomes a sort of object of modernity. Once again, therefore, we do not understand - and in this case too, Mr Floris is right - how the mayors can benefit from these instruments which already existed and which, depending on the different sensitivities of the various administrations, have sometimes given good, discreet, mediocre or bad self-esteem, like all instruments that do not go beyond the capacity or inability of their users. However, what really doesn't work, apart from the manifest rule, is the discharge effect. It is a rule that assigns powerful powers and responsibilities to the municipalities (and therefore to the mayors) and to the Forces of the Order, but without giving guarantees, as we have pointed out several times to the Government and also rapporteur, but equally unable to approve any amendment on the provision, which must be approved as well as out of the House. We are surprised at the fact that delegations are given with the formula of the combined provisions of Articles 117 and 118 of the Constitution, according to which the State has competence for public order and security, except for possible delegations to local territorial authorities, such as the municipalities, when the delegation is not blank, but is well defined in the chain of powers and responsibilities and, above all, is well funded. In this case, ladies and gentlemen, there is no such thing as funding. It is no coincidence that my fellow Members, Mr Piccoli and Mr Malan, evoked Article 81 of the Constitution. In this case they are definanced and, indeed, a possible, potential and virtual financing is envisaged, I would say almost dreamlike through the proceeds of administrative sanctions provided for in this measure. Colleagues, we're overreacting. We are beyond the dumpling and the manifest norms; we are in the world of dreams and frankly we cannot afford it. We know that at this moment the Forces of Order and the Municipalities are suffering the dramatic impact, not only of the lack of security and urban decorum, but of immigration. We had 186,000 arrivals, landings of natural persons, migrants (be they economic and therefore illegal, or legitimized to ask for international protection and asylum), who had to be managed by someone, that is, by the mayors. Mayors who have suffered considerable cuts in expenditure for both municipalities and higher bodies, for example the Region, which in part feed them, in these years of Renzi Government and probably also Gentiloni, since this measure is underfunded. This fact disturbs us, because the mayors, who are those who perform the functions of first reception and must guarantee the welfare of immigrants and in the context also those citizens who pay taxes and who feel increasingly abandoned by the local administration (the mayor, in fact), do not believe that this measure - which deals with the definition of urban security - allows to acquire, in addition to the attributions of responsibility, also new tools and funds to exercise them. Once again, therefore, this Government invites the Italians to lunch and presents the bill to the mayors and this is no longer possible. Not to mention the Forces of Order, which is again required an over-performance not sufficiently funded. [[Applause from Senators Floris and Rizzotti.]] Senator De Petris talked about electronic bracelets, but as we have said several times in the Commission, it is pointless to talk about instruments that do not exist, that are too expensive and that number does not even allow a job or use, not even a measure on electronic bracelets. We were still told - we remembered yesterday - the late chief of the Manganelli Police: the electronic bracelets are very rare and in very limited number because they cost more than a bracelet of Bulgari, no one can afford them and therefore no one is legitimated to insert them in a provision making this provision dead letter. I would like to mention some of the considerations that have been made by my fellow Members before me, because they are the ones that are particularly dear to us. We have tried to bring to the attention of the Government that I am convinced has responded in perfect good faith but has shot the arrow without, as far as we are concerned, centering the target, the topic of abusive occupations. Of all the powers that are placed at the head of the authority of the government on the territory, therefore the prefect, both the municipal authority, therefore the mayor, there are also derogations (but this is not the interpretation of the government and I believe not even of the majority) to the eviction of squatters of dwelling. These are themes that we do not merely deduce from reading the text, which we find to be obscure. Yesterday I said, not even jokingly, to Minister Bubbico: in claris non fit interpreted, a legal brocardo that allows the law to be immediately applied. If interpretations begin, jurisdictional splits and jurisprudential interpretations, perhaps dystonical, apply. We have received this warning from several trade associations that have reported the problem both with regard to the abusive occupants of buildings, and the use of connection of utilities that should be cancelled by definition when the occupier is abusive and instead in this measure there are derogations. The government representative has rightly replied to me that it is not the trade associations that influence judges' decisions and that it is true, but it is equally true that trade associations live in the world and are equally entitled to be represented and protected, since they are people who not only exercise inconspicuously influence rights, but are bearers of fundamental rights such as, for example, the right to property or the right to use a property that is not understood why it should be intended for illegal purposes. I see that my time is running out, I apologise to the President and to my colleagues, and I quickly begin to conclude. These are the issues we have tried to address in this measure. We have only carried out a carrot here, and I have tried to recall the speeches made by all my fellow Members because they have been equally significant to us as to the reasons why we are voting against them. We could have improved the measure, I'm sure. There are aspects that, deduced from the philosophy of the Maroni decree, could have better inspired a security decree, which is much more programmatic than preceptive. Unfortunately, we didn't have the time. We very much hope that the next measures will be less obvious and more contentful. However, our vote will be against. [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-04-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-807.ana.u73	He's enlisted to speak Senator Mirabelli. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-04-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-807.ana.u74	Mr President, contrary to many Members who have spoken in general debate, I consider this decree to be an important measure, which was not and could not face all the policies that can contribute to building greater security for citizens in this country, although I would like to stress that this measure comes after other measures and other interventions made by this Government, which I will then refer to, and after the recent decree on immigration that we passed last week. However, I consider the measure important to our examination, because it introduces useful interventions to answer the security question and addresses the issue with the awareness that, in the country, this question is not growing because we are facing a criminal escalation. The data tell us in fact that we are not faced with a drift dictated by a criminal escalation, since the number of crimes is decreasing, but that it is caused by a widespread perception, to which contribute the anxiety linked to the crisis, but above all the urban degradation and a feeling that, due to the degradation, the carelessness and the non-government of some phenomena, nourishes a feeling of abandonment and amplifies the idea of a far west, that really exists only in some - few - urban suburbs, but it is not and cannot be the way that describes the coexistence in our cities and in our country. Faced with this widespread demand for security, therefore, it is not enough only to provide a security response, to strengthen and improve, even necessary, the extraordinary work already carried out by the Forces of Order, but also to create the conditions to combat degradation and to restore the suburbs, to give the Quaestors the tools to prevent crimes, but also to intervene in order to prevent degradation, to sanction in a concrete way the public and commercial exercises that cause disturbance, sell alcohol to minors or are attractive for illegal activities and, again, to have the tools to sanction the behaviors that disturb serene coexistence and decorum. This is what the decree-law does to our examination. We also need coordination, the metropolitan committees are introduced, but, above all, the measure we are examining is crossed by the idea - the security pacts between prefects and mayors, where they have been made, have indeed worked - that we need better use of resources and, therefore, better coordination of police forces, with local police forces, to which we attribute more powers, an integrated use of video surveillance and more efficient communications. The decree-law in question therefore intervenes on these issues, through important, concrete, not demagogic, but serious interventions. They are certainly not decisive, but they are important and help to build a regulatory framework that can ensure greater security for citizens. They are not the only interventions that have achieved the current majority, but they are part of a policy that the Government and the majority have put in place. I hear they don't invest resources. In the meantime, I would like to ask everyone to consider investment as an important issue, but not a decisive one, because I do not believe that a rule is good or bad depending on the resources it spends, just as I do not think that the effectiveness of security policies can be assessed only in this way, otherwise, since we have increased funding and investment for the security sector, against those who have cut them drastically in recent years, we could say that we are already in place and that we have already done what we had to do, having increased investment. It is true that the heart of the measure under consideration is not the increase in investment, although investment is there: the allocation of EUR 22 million for video surveillance and the possibility that is given to regions that have achieved a balanced budget to hire staff for the single European number "112" and the coordination of security activities are important measures. We have spent a lot, if philosophy is what I mentioned earlier. As Senator Favero has already said, we have allocated EUR 2 billion in a measure for the outskirts and they are not the only ones, because EUR 500 million are already "operational" because they have already been allocated to 27 cities for interventions on the outskirts. These 500 million two years ago were made available and the municipalities are using them to set up empty public homes that were a tangible sign of degradation. It's not a manifest law. They are concrete rules that give quaestors, urban supervision and mayors the opportunity to take better action to ensure decorum and prevent degradation. These are very important interventions, precisely because it is the degradation that nourishes, beyond the episodes, a perception of insecurity. Does that mean inflaming uncomfortable carriers? No. I believe, however, that it is the opposite: it means addressing the issue of degradation in an intelligent way, knowing that it also means activating answers for the disadvantaged. (13.35) (Following MIRABELLI). The alternative can not be either disorder or degradation or erase from sight and our attention the uncomfortable people. I mean, these are very concrete rules. The rules for coordinating or optimising the social and territorial control measures are concrete, as is the choice to set up the metropolitan committees. I would like to address briefly the issue of housing and the question of abuse, once again touched on by Senator Bernini, with whom we have already discussed in the Commission. I find criticism of this incomprehensible point. We're not derogating from anything. We are simply, on the subject of abusive occupations and evictions, perfecting a rule that we have introduced (and you voted against it), with regard to the law on housing emergency, with which we have said: enough! Hard fist compared to abusing! We have introduced rules, which have been highly contested, such as preventing suppliers from making contracts for the supply of electricity and water with those who are abusively employed. We said we'd remove squatters from public housing lists. We said we had to tighten on this. (Following MIRABELLI). Always, in this country, when you come to the door of a house where you have to clear out, if there are children or disabled, the judicial officer stops. It is not a novelty introduced by that notarella present in the law: it has always been so. The rule introduced, therefore, is a rule that takes note of the experimentation that we have done so far with the work provided for in the decree on housing emergency and that intervenes on two fronts. On the one hand, it says that there is a difficulty in carrying out measures; therefore, we give the prefects more role to use the Forces of Order to make evictions, knowing that the Municipalities, if there are minors or people who need assistance, must intervene to guarantee those people, not to stay there, but to have a different place to stay. In Milan a residence was opened, created specifically to accommodate families with children who are evicted. The other intervention is to act on an excess that has been done using the law on housing emergency. The excess is that of those who applied the rule retroactively and cut supplies to people and families who had already lived in those houses for a long time. This decree states that one can still not give supplies to those who occupy, but one cannot take away from those who live in those houses, especially if there are children. I know it's easy to ride the safety issue and it's easier to say that it's never enough. I think, however, that this is an important measure which, like the previous ones, is guided by the idea that the security of citizens is an issue that certainly concerns the control of the territory and the government of the phenomenon of immigration, but also prevention, the fight against degradation, the education of legality and, for this reason, we must intervene on several levels, as is being done with this decree-law. It is a measure made with the awareness that the victims of crime, but above all the people who live with the most suffering and fear the perception of insecurity are the weakest citizens, the poorest, the loneliest and the oldest. Minister Minniti is right: other than classic provisions made for the rich. We take care of security. We have a duty to do so and the State has a duty to do so precisely because we must guarantee a fundamental right to those who are weaker and more alone and cannot guarantee it for themselves. [[Applause from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-04-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-807.ana.u75	The general debate is closed. I call the rapporteur. MARTELLI (M5S). I would like to speak on the order of business. I already asked for the floor. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Who did you ask? BULGARRELLI (M5S). He's been with his hand up for an hour. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I've already given Senator Pagliari the floor. MARTELLI (M5S). The order of business shall interrupt all other priorities. PRESIDENT. - The debate is Senator Pagliari has the word, to which I have already given it. [[Comments of Senator Martelli]] Senator Martelli, please don't insist. You will have the floor after the rapporteur has spoken. AIROLA (M5S). The rules of the PD apply in this House! PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. The general debate is closed. The rapporteur has the floor. [[Senator Airola's comments.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-04-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-807.ana.u76	Mr President, I shall be very brief. I just want to make a few notes. The first is in relation to the approach of this decree-law, which I believe has an extremely significant and important element and does not matter whether it is new or not because it is very important that it be proposed at this time. I am talking about the concept of integrated security, of a system that poses the problem of integrating organic action as a problem and fundamental element, and in this logic, realizes both vertical subsidiarity and horizontal subsidiarity, in the awareness of the complexity of the problem of security. I believe that this is an extremely important political leap forward and I believe that the debate has clarified the difficulty of challenging this element. Once again, in fact, we were faced with a debate in which the higher the tone of insults, the more there was the void of alternative proposals. These proposals have not been seen in the amendments and in the discussions, in which we have simply come to completely free and offensive statements for the democratic sensitivity of the Government and the Democratic Party. To say, as has been argued, that this is an ideological manifesto of the criminalization of poverty or to say that we are faced with the violent repressive charge towards the marginalized, are statements that, while respecting differences of opinion, should never be admitted to an Chamber of this nature. I would like to remind Senator De Petris and Senator Nugnes that Article 2 of the Constitution speaks of imperative duties of social and economic solidarity and these duties are towards all citizens, not some citizens. This document seeks to achieve simply a balance or a recovery of balance of the right to live their city on the part of all. It doesn't do any discrimination, but it tries to rebalance and it does so with measures that, whoever pretends not to see, knows that they are also measures that do not concern the so-called marginality but concern those who "have" or "can". For example, orders for drinks are linked to phenomena that concern people who disturb the peace of the citizens in bars or bars. So, we're facing everything except an element of inequality. We are trying to recover a sense of legality and balance in the life of the city, which is the essential element because instead of hatred or social misunderstanding there is mutual attention. This is the only way to recreate higher conditions of integration and to attack marginalization. On the other hand, in the name of a rhetorical protection of rights, the distance between citizens is precisely the opposite: intolerance which does not help integration policies. [[Applause from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-04-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-807.ana.u77	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-04-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-807.ana.u78	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-04-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-807.ana.u79	MARTELLI (M5S). Mr President, I would like to make a point of order and a point of order. Rule 92 says that points of order or agenda have priority over the rest, so you should have given me the floor first. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. If you asked me, I'm giving you the floor. [[Comments from the M5S Group.]] AIROLA (M5S). Then it's the secretary senators' fault because he had his hand up. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. You have the floor right now. You can talk, what's the problem? MARTELLI (M5S). I was gonna tell her I didn't mean to argue about this. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. The point of order provides that one can have the perception of the request. MARTELLI (M5S). Next time I'll be like Mr. Fantastic: I'll extend the rubber arm! As regards the order of business, I would like to reiterate that the 5 Star Movement Group opposes the convening of the Commissions during the sessions of the Assembly and during the general discussion on trust.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-04-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-807.ana.u80	On the basis of which Rule of the Rules of Procedure? Can you point that out to me, please? [[Comments from the M5S Group.]] Since you always refer to the Rules of Procedure, if you indicate the Rule of the Rules of Procedure which contains this provision, it helps the work of the Presidency. MARTELLI (M5S). Commissions may not normally be convened during the work of the Assembly. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. If you make a request, you can also support it on a point of order. MARTELLI (M5S). This concerns the order of business; I am telling you that the Commissions must be convened when the House is not convened. We need the unanimity of every Commission. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I would remind you of the Rule of the Rules of Procedure which provides for such a rule. It's not like that. MARTELLI (M5S). Because then we voted in the Budget Commission and the Budget Commission did not vote unanimously and... PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. You don't ask questions; you have to give me the support I asked for your statement. It's not like that. It is an inveterate practice that when there is discussion the Commissions work. The Rules of Procedure provide for the Commissions to work and convene independently, so it is not as it says. BULGARRELLI (M5S). Not when the Assembly is convened. MARTELLI (M5S). Not if the House is working. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Who said that? Find me the Rule of Procedure. MARTELLI (M5S). That's what we've been doing for four years. PRESIDENT. - The debate is Look, one thing is to do this, another is the provision of the Rules of Procedure. I asked you to give me the article that supports your request. MARTELLI (M5S). Maybe someone else found it for me. Anyway, then, I have a third request. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I read paragraph 8 of Article 29 so that we exchange information: When the Assembly is convened, the committees in the deliberating and drafting session are required to suspend the session if the President of the Senate or a third of the senators present in the Commission so request. There is only talk of a deliberating and drafting office, not a referent or consultative one; therefore, it is clear. If the Commissions have to work to give opinions, they do so in the consultative, neither deliberating nor drafting.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-04-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-807.ana.u81	Excuse me, Mr President, you mentioned something else: discipline is regulated by deliberating and drafting. [[Protests from PD and Aut groups (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT)-PSI-MAIE.]] CARDINALI (PD). Study first! PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator Martelli, I made the point of order. MARTELLI (M5S). So let us do one good thing about this: I would ask you to convene the Rules Council to settle the matter.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-04-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-807.ana.u82	There is nothing to settle, because there is the Rules of Procedure that is quite clear.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-04-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-807.ana.u83	In conclusion, Mr President, pursuant to Rule 96 of our Rules of Procedure, I would ask that we do not proceed to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-04-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-807.ana.u84	This is a legitimate request. I put to the vote the proposal not to move on to the examination of the articles. It's not approved. He asked the Minister for Relations with Parliament, Senator Finocchiaro. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-04-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-807.ana.u85	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, on behalf of the Government, authorised by the Council of Ministers, I put the question of confidence in the adoption, without amendments or additional articles, of the single article of draft law No 2754, of the conversion of Decree-Law No 14 of 20 February 2017 into the text approved by the House of Deputies.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-04-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-807.ana.u86	The Presidency notes that the question of confidence has been put on the approval of the bill for the conversion of Decree-Law No 14, in the same text as that approved by the Chamber of Deputies. I therefore call upon the Conference of Leaders to organise the relevant debate. The sitting is suspended. (The sitting was suspended at 1.51 p.m. and resumed at 2.50 p.m.)
ParlaMint-IT_2017-04-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-807.ana.u87	The Conference of Leaders organised work on the question of trust posed by the Government on the bill of conversion of the decree-law on urgent provisions on the safety of cities, in the text approved by the Chamber of Deputies. For the discussion on confidence, one hour and fifteen minutes were allocated on the basis of specific requests from the Groups. The final explanations of vote will follow and calls it around 5 p.m. I say that the Parliamentary Committee of Inquiry into Femicide and all forms of gender-based violence is called to proceed to its constitution on Wednesday, 19 April, at 2 p.m.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-04-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-807.ana.u88	I declare open the debate on the question of trust. Senator Council is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-04-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-807.ana.u89	Mr President, it seems to me that it is time to abolish the infirmary in the Senate because one day's trust takes the doctor away.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-04-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-807.ana.u90	If I recall correctly, it seems to me that you have benefited from the presence of doctors in the past.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-04-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-807.ana.u91	COUNCIL (LN-Aut). I'm one of those guys who gave a lot of work to all the staff, which I still thank now. Apart from that, we have yet another confidence in an urgent measure. Perhaps we have only recently noticed urban security and, more generally, citizens. (The sitting was suspended at 2.04 p.m. and resumed at 2.04 p.m.) (The sitting was This is a measure that was born with good wishes. The title gave us hope and we believed that there was indeed the ability of this Government, with the new Prime Minister and the new Minister of Interior Minniti, to be able to put in line a few articles to put in condition a certain chain, recalled within the measure (starting from State, Regions, Provinces and Municipalities), in order to unite synergies and put into place an idea of security of the serious citizen. It wasn't like that. The articles are a bit bland: in some ways, they are enunciations of principles, for others of the considerations on activities that the Provinces, the Regions and especially the mayors of the Municipalities (even of the smallest Municipality of this country) already did, even in the absence of a precise law. Now they will have a frame in which to insert what they already carried on normally in administrative life. There has been an attempt to give more responsibility - if ever needed - to the mayors, without giving them a lira, without giving them the opportunity to hire a vigilante, without allocating some money to run some article that has been so clearly clarified in this measure. With regard to the issue of urban decorum, the ability to put in condition some dangerous places to be recovered and anything else, it is clearly made of demagogy, but if there is not then the money clearly becomes all more complicated. The trust has been placed, yet another, as we said before, of which we would gladly have done without. We appreciated that this did not happen in the House too, where they had a few more moments to reason in positive terms, including as a minority (my Group), to table amendments and at least to discuss them. It was not possible in the Senate: we saw yesterday a truly tiresome Commission work, because, apart from a few agendas, all the amendments were rejected. I can assure you, Madam President, that both in the substance and in the quality of the amendments, my group and the other groups have done a good job, giving the majority a series of free advice supported by a perception of the problem fairly serious. We regret, therefore, that confidence has been placed, which we have considered as a non-positive choice towards a measure from which we really expected something more. All that has been done is to put the mayors in a position to be burdened - now by law - with a series of tasks. They will have the opportunity to issue ordinances, which are free, at no cost, so you don't even attack "Article 81 of the Municipalities" if you pass me the joke. Some of the issues have not been addressed, except by statement of principles, as I said before. Urban security is entrusted to the mayors. But who is that mayor who has no intention or desire to put video surveillance in his own municipalities, at least in sensitive places, or enlightenment throughout the country? What is that municipality that does not intend to recover those parts of territory that are, to all intents and purposes, used as places of sale or of unwelcome encounters? I believe that the mayors, from right to left (because security does not have a political color, except from the point of view of the interpretation of the rules that are being approved), all intend to ensure that the security of the citizens is guaranteed. In this measure, if anyone still had any doubts (but we made it clear in the speeches we did this morning), there is none of this. We probably want to make a measure of facade, a warm cloth in the face of an increasing sensitivity on the part of citizens towards security, which absolutely is not there. You can use this thermometer: if you ask citizens what they expect from an administrative or government act, the first problem they highlight is safety, then work and so on. We are not at all satisfied, we have had the feeling that yet another opportunity has been missed to ensure that a measure with such a high-sounding title had a relapse against a problem that is increasingly seen as a social alarm and as a demonstration of the government's inability to secure citizens. If politics does not live up to this principle and this role, its ability to deal with matters will certainly fail. Then perhaps this decree-law was to be considered as a kind of unique text of all the rules that have been implemented in recent years. We approved a flood of empty prisons and practically made roundabouts in front of the penitentiary offices, where the traffic in and out almost compensated: one went in and the other went out and the latter, once out, after some time was arrested again. We have concluded nothing, except given the idea of a country that is unable to address the issue of citizens' security as one of its priorities. Some articles of this provision are really exhausting and repeat facts that mayors and local administrations know very well. You have recalled in this provision that the Provinces still exist, even if they are without money and have been degraded by the will, even if failed, to abolish them. They're provinces that don't have the money to plug the holes. In this regard, I would rather be concerned about urban security, because when you go around on a motorbike on a provincial road it is easy that safety is more dependent on luck than on the ability to keep the road on track. The regions, at the outcome of the referendum on 4 December (luckily, I add), have not been so developed and deprived of those 26 or 27 competences they had, so they potentially have the possibility to manage some issues relating to security independently. The government may have had neither the economic strength nor the interpretative capacity to manage this measure and has raised yet another question of trust. The measure will now be adopted, but we are very sorry, because, in some respects, if confidence had not been placed, we would have thought of an abstention vote. I ask the Government, if there is ever time and you will want to do so, to put this measure back in hand, because there is so much to settle, not so much as regarding the articles themselves, but on the ability of the same to affect the effective safety of the citizens. See, to make a law like this, it was enough to go around the markets and meet about twenty people who would have told you seriously what the needs were. [[Applause from Senator Candiani.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-04-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-807.ana.u92	Senator D'Anna is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-04-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-807.ana.u93	Madam President, I will also be extremely brief because, for the privacy of this House, we can well exchange some kind of courtesy: the time is late, the blood glucose levels at this time are very low and even the intellectual faculties, for those who have it (I doubt my own, for example), are quite small in size. When I undertook to intervene, I expressed my concern that I had not been able to go into the text of this measure as a matter of duty, but that I had come to greater reflection and greater determination as soon as I saw it. I then came to mind, Mr President, what I had read a long time ago about the arcane empires of Tacitus: the governor, the powerful, the king generally used three coats, the first of which was that of the public salus, so it was said that a decision had been taken to protect the health of the people. The second cloak was that of the publicum bonus, according to which a decision had been made for the good of the people. The third cloak, the most torn one, was called intent (good intentions) and was torn because it was worn frequently to justify a series of measures or attitudes on the part of the emperor. Basically it was said: this problem exists, we have dealt with it with all good intentions, but unfortunately we have not solved it. Then he was wearing the cloak of intent. I appeal to the Government to know if it really believes that with such a general measure we can deal with the problem of the emergency security in Italy. Do you really believe that the mayors, to whom we cut 70% of state transfers from Tremonti to Padoan, can have tools and weapons in order to be interested in something that is primarily the task of the State? In health care now 60% of the people pay the ticket when they can't find the private accredited to turn to. After all, unable to wait for the kilometers waiting lists of state-run public health, he puts his hand to the pockets and pulls out the money. We therefore have a health system that, while costing EUR 106 billion, is assisting less than 50% of the population, beyond the magnificence with which we represent it outside. There are still security, justice and infrastructure. These are the great tasks of the state. As for justice we know well how we are combined: we live in a country in which the certainty of law is random or at least diluted on some lustre, which - I tell myself - is not the term deriving from the verb illustrate, but that is the one used to indicate a five-year term; otherwise someone makes the end of the peasants of the novel "Fontamara" of Silone, to whom instead of saying that they removed the water for fifteen years because they gave it to the gentleman, they said that it was just three lustres. We therefore have a trial that lasts from two to three lustres, that is, from ten to fifteen years, in civil for the truth we do not know. Therefore, we have about 20,000 inmates waiting for trial, half of whom will be innocent, so we have 10,000 people in detention and also in the matter of justice we are doing water from all sides. Then there was the school, which was another of the great interventions of the state, and we know how it ended with the law on good school, an excellent legislation that however has been applied pedestally, so much to displease even those 100,000 people who, after so many years of wandering, have been stabilised. Today the state, with the present pseudo-provision, a measure of good intentions, wants to delegate a part of the control of legality and security to the local authorities. We have already stripped ourselves by creating the Anti-Corruption Authority of Canton, to which we are about to give - I say to the few remaining colleagues - the power and the power to supervise all the contracting stations of all the works that will take place in Italy. Quis custodiet custodias? Who will watch over the keepers, who will have white paper? School: five less; justice: three and a half; health four less; safety we are giving it to these bodies, pletoric, among other things, and the State is giving it to local authorities, with all the good intentions (even the one wearing the cloak of intent had a good intention). I therefore ask myself, Madam President, rhetorically and with rather low blood sugar levels, what is the use of this state, which comes to the fore every time because it tends to interfere in the lives of individuals, tends to regulate, prohibit and organize. In America they have chosen another path: people defend themselves, with all the excesses of defense, so those who offend or threaten their lives or integrity know that they can lose their integrity in turn. In Italy, why don't we do something that increases and qualifies the salaries of carabinieri, policemen, financiers? Why don't we increase these people's endowments? What can the mayor or committee do? What do we have to discuss? We must powder our faces and say that the Government and Parliament have produced a measure by which the margin of security of citizens is improved. I hope it will be so, but unfortunately my long life, which is incomprehensible to me in many ways, has taught that if you change and move a function from those who are in charge of those who are not, you already make a mistake, let alone if we entrust it to subjects such as the mayors or representatives of other local authorities who hardly "destroy" it, as they say, with what the State transfers for the ordinariness of the functions that are theirs. Finally, last but not least, I come to the question of trust. For months we have been raging around the principle of legality, we are raging to understand what kind of electoral law can vivify the moral custom and civic sense of citizens thus rehabilitating Parliament and parliamentarians to this function that is now unknown, having been vulgarly attacked for political purposes by certain political movements operating today in Italy. However, if Parliament every week, every ten days it is called upon here to vote for the government's confidence in a measure presented by the Government, it means that the legislative chambers should not be reduced from two to one, but both should be abolished. It would have been enough, in fact, to directly elect the President of the Republic and directly elect, by universal suffrage, the President of the Council, who would then have chosen the Government he wanted. It would have been possible to invent a repealing referendum with just 50,000 signatures or propositives with 200,000, thus reaching what are proposed by the parliamentarians of the 5 Star Movement: a new type of democracy, permanent assembly, realized through the clicks on the computer. In fact, if you propose that we vote on a vote of confidence a week, all we spend is really useless and it is Parliament that receives a vulnus, because whoever is in the government cares and says: Now I'm gonna smash it. But as my friend John Maynard Keynes said, the only sure thing in the medium to long term is that you will be dead. The Gentiloni Government will not last twenty years and therefore you will leave to the next President of the Council a custom - as Renzi did that made us vote about sixty votes of confidence - a praxis that is the denial of democracy and that will allow others to "put your demands under their feet" when you are not in the government. This practice, in this Chamber, is based on the small maneuvers and small interests of an asphyctic government, which must be maintained and which ultimately disproves it, since it does not need a qualified majority - and this is another "imbecillation" that should be corrected - because the oppositions are split and with 140 or 145 votes out of 320 senators brings home the result, which was packaged at Palazzo Chigi and which, with the application of the question of trust, has been decomposed by all forms of parliamentary intervention through the amendments. Then, gentlemen, Tacitus was right: the most torn of the capes is still the intention, that is, the good intention, which is contained in the document at our examination, but which does not change the nature and tyrannical vocation of this Government, with respect to which we cannot, we must and do nothing but say no. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator Crimi is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-04-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-807.ana.u94	Madam President, I would like to begin by pointing out that the remarks made earlier by our Parent Company referred to the situation in which I myself was, having the Commission of which I am a member called for an important hearing on an act by the Government and having to run here in this House, leaving the audits behind, in order to intervene in the debate. This was the theme of the speech that our Parent Company had tried to submit to the President earlier, without being listened to. I would just like to say briefly that the measure in our examination is only "fake" and I will do so by bearing in mind the classic example of a case, contained within the measure under consideration, which shows that it is of no use. I am referring to the establishment of the metropolitan urban safety committee. In essence, there is already the provincial committee for security and public order, which is present in all the Provinces, including the metropolitan cities, and is composed of the prefect, who presides over it, the mayor of the capital city or of the metropolitan city and the quaestor, the commander of the carabinieri and the commander of the Finance Guard. This organ has important functions. Well, for the urban security of the metropolitan cities, a new metropolitan safety committee is set up, which does not replace the other body, but remains alongside it. Well, this committee for the urban security of the metropolitan cities is constituted and co-chaired by the prefect, by the metropolitan mayor: the composition of this committee is exhausted in these two persons, except the possibility of widening the participation to some mayor of municipalities possibly interested in the topics dealt with, which is already foreseen for the provincial committee for safety and public order. It is a useless organ, which simply serves to justify interventions on urban security in the metropolitan city, which in fact do not exist. It is like imagining that the mayor of Rome and the prefect of Rome, in order to meet and discuss the problems related to urban security, for example the events related to the renewal of the Treaties of Rome, must meet and co-chair themselves, with an agenda, a minutes and a secretary who minutes. This is the absurd provision in this provision. For the rest, they are very dangerous standards. I would like to point out that, with the audience of the mayors that we have today throughout Italy, giving the mayors the power to apply administrative sanctions (as they have defined them, but in fact they are criminal sanctions in all respects, such as the Daspus and the expulsions) is dangerous, because we do not have the protection of the judiciary, which should be the judicial authority that protects against possible abuses. There is no mention of how, for example, this power can be abused. Therefore, we could have mayors sheriffs, mayors who are instrumentally using the weapons you have put in their hands, not to do their duty, not to protect citizens, not to protect the public safety of citizens, but simply to carry out policies that may be aggressive, which instill in citizens an idea of insecurity, so as to support their re-election as mayors sheriffs. That's the risk. Nothing is said, then, that, if 8,000 mayors were to impose an expulsion order on an Italian citizen, where would he go? Nothing prohibits, in fact, that a citizen is removed from a municipality for a year, (this is the minimum expected), and that then the neighbouring municipality, where perhaps it goes to reside and establish its own home, issue a similar measure. I expect it, because the act will certainly be chained and within a few days 8,000 mayors will declare an Italian citizen unwanted. Can you explain this citizen to me where he's going? What's your situation? Become an apolis, do we find a border territory within Italy, send it to the border or have we already foreseen a specific area? We are talking about Italian citizens, because it is obviously to Italian citizens that this type of rule can be applied, because for the foreign citizen there is repatriation. That is why this is a dangerous decree-law, which does not solve the problems, which does not meet the needs of the degradation of the periphery and which, in essence, does not address the problem at the source, does not go to find out what the causes of the discomfort are, does not go to solve the causes of the discomfort, but serves exclusively to put the dust under the carpet, to pretend, when foreign guests, tourists and maybe foreign authorities that everything is fine. And everything is concentrated in the historic center, in the areas of great value, cultural and artistic, but nothing is said about the urban suburbs, nothing is settled and everything is left to the mayors, without giving them an extra euro to do what they have to do. Now, interventions to solve urban degradation, so to secure, to make more beautiful and clean up an area serve to ensure greater security. Good lighting, for example, or a nice and clean park are interventions that make the environment safer. Of course. And did you need a law to tell the mayors? Did you need to write that in a decree-law? Perhaps the mayors would have expected money, in order to be able to implement those measures that can already be mandatory to ensure greater security: first of all, lighting. Attention: we do not refer only to the beautiful cities, to those of the North or to the capitals. I come from Palermo and on the outskirts of this city there are areas where, there is no public lighting. What are we talking about? That's what we're talking about, and then here we come to talk about Daspos and the removal of people. But let's start with ABC, civilization, and then we can start thinking about taking action against citizens! [[Applause from the M5S Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-04-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-807.ana.u95	He's enlisted to speak Senator Floris. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-04-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-807.ana.u96	Madam President, I had no intention of intervening, and I would not have spoken except to point out what is now a well-established practice of this Government, namely the use of confidence in an almost constant manner. This is in fact the forty-fourth trust that the Government places in this House, on the basis of reasons to which confidence should be exceptionally reserved, that is, of contingency and urgency, which, on the other hand, are often not proposed according to the constitutional dictates, as in the case of the topics being examined. This, however, is only a part of it. In fact, by relying on confidence, the Government eliminates that important phase of the legislation that concerns the discussion of measures, in the Commission before and in the Assembly later, through the amendments. This way of proceeding is interpreted by me - but I think by many - as a weakening of the role that the Senate plays in our Parliament. More than that, I was moved by Mr Pagliari's reply, who gave me the right to judge the amendments, saying that there was no improvement in the proposals he considered either on the part of his colleagues - I think that majority amendments have been tabled - or on the part of the opposition. Well, this leads me to consider the position of the Government, in its attempt to diminish the role of Parliament, with even greater importance for the fact that this delegitimation also starts from within our Parliament. When I am told that no request has been made, that no useful suggestion has been made, I would like to remind you that the first suggestion is that, in the case of important measures - such as this one on the safety of cities - which are not the prerogative of either the right or the left, we must equip them with that amount of resources to enable the law to be applied. As I have already pointed out this morning, security is a context of important issues, such as the redevelopment and recovery of degraded areas and sites, the elimination of factors of marginality and social exclusion, the prevention of crime, in particular of predatory type, the promotion of respect for legality, higher levels of social cohesion and civil coexistence. This, according to our Minister Minniti - and we can certainly support him - is the heart of urban security; this is the subject of urban security. I would ask Minister Minniti, without entering into the substance of the article and without giving judgment on the merits, how he proposes all this mass of important issues relating to public security, the security of cities, without adequate resources. Moreover, I am sorry because I see the positive will of the measure, also through the repetition of instruments that the center-right had adopted during the Berlusconi Government, with Minister Maroni, with legislative acts that have succeeded. Therefore, we are in favour of these interventions, but where there is the possibility to discuss them extensively within the Senate Assembly; where the subjects called upon to contribute or to apply the law, that is, the mayors, and where the provision is equipped with adequate financial instruments. In fact, we are giving considerable importance to the function of the mayors who lead Municipalities who, as a result of the Stability Pact, cannot hire the Municipal Police and cannot use the resources at their disposal, not even those that are the result of donations, as we have seen recently with regard to the municipalities affected by the earthquake that receive donations and cannot use them. Well: to these mayors we tell them to do what they are told without having a euro in order to carry out the heavy tasks that we entrust to them. That is why I have spoken, especially after the rapporteur's reply, which I think is completely out of place.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-04-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-807.ana.u97	I declare closed the debate on the question of trust posed by the Government.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-04-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-807.ana.u98	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-04-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-807.ana.u99	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-04-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-807.ana.u100	Bisinella (Misto-Fare!). Madam President, Minister, Mr Undersecretary, ladies and gentlemen, I regret having to debate - and I say this at the outset - a debate on a subject so strongly felt by the citizens and long-awaited by many, such as the debate on urban security in cities, in an almost deserted Chamber. This shows how much it is at the heart of all parties, even of those who make so much demagogy and populism, really carry forward the demands of the citizens. What has already been said in general debate is reiterated in an explanation of vote: this measure remains only a political manifesto, a decree-law that, in reality, is lacking in real and effective modifi cation given the impact it will have on the issue, strongly felt, of the fight against crime and delinquency on the territories. It is a measure that puts the mayors and local administrators in charge of a huge responsibility: to meet the demand for security and urban control, to combat degradation and all forms of conflict with the civil rules of coexistence without having, however, real powers of intervention and even less resources, especially when it comes to the situation of the minor municipalities. The mayors of the municipalities are therefore once again left alone to manage uncontrolled immigration and an increasing presence of crime at local level. I also remember the measures contained, for example, in Articles 9 and 10 on the urban Daspus, so much praised, that in reality they are absolutely inconclusive because those who have a little practical sense and understand how things work know very well that they do not lead to anything. In fact, this is a removal measure that already today a mayor can arrange, asking for the intervention of the prefecture, but that absolutely does not solve anything. Moreover, it is expected that a financial administrative penalty will be paid to those who we know very well will not be able to provide, in addition to having absolutely no intention of doing so. Those who know the Italian rules and laws know very well that nothing will happen to them if it is not established, as we have also asked for our amendments in the Commission, that there should be arrest in flagrante and detention in prison. It is the only way to give sure answers to the question of security, justice and certainty of the penalty that comes from the citizens. Such measures remain only a good statement of principle. Certainly this measure marks a modest step forward but, I repeat, it is completely ineffective and devoid of real modificative scope, as well as unable to really respond to the demands raised also by representatives of the Forces of the order and the local police on the territory. For these reasons, our vote can only be one abstention. [[Applause from Senator Bellot.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-04-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-807.ana.u101	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-04-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-807.ana.u102	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-04-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-807.ana.u103	CANDIANI (LN-Aut). Madam President, of course the debate is about confidence and not about the substance of the measure, on which our colleague, Senator Council, has already expressed the position of the League. It surprises us, but not so much, that the Government puts trust, because we have become accustomed to considering the action of the Government as not aimed at the declared interest in the title of the law, but rather to give citizens feelings, messages that are, in the perspective of the Government, as persuasive as possible. The next item is the conversion into law, with amendments, of Decree-Law no. 14 of 20 February 2017: who would have been impressed by a similar title? Of course, if you add: ', with urgent provisions on the safety of cities', here is the title of the newspaper at once. It is the same criterion with which the previous Government, the Renzi Government, had tried to convince Italian citizens to vote yes to a change of the Constitution that in the titles said one thing, but in the content and in the merit it said much more. Madam President, our Group would have gladly wished the Government to take the measure forward in the amending phase, because we would have liked to participate by modifying, increasing those powers to the mayors who are merely mentioned in this measure, or by giving a serious turn through the amendments we have tabled. This would have allowed us to get to a vote, not to say positive, but certainly not to prevent this measure. It wasn't like that. We saw in the Commission - and the Government immediately stated this - that there would be no willingness to share the terms of the content, as confidence in the measure would be placed, thus frustrating the proposed amending proposals not to obstruct. Never as in this provision have we inserted and made pro-active proposals, to interpret requests that come from the territory; that our mayors have suggested to us; that the Forces of the Order also addressed to the Government as wishes; that the citizens who live in everyday life the problems of the cities have suggested to us. All these amendments have been made in vain. You have adopted some agendas, but unfortunately the amendments did not want to consider them. I am even more surprised that the specific agenda presented by us was rejected and that it concerned a very simple matter: the request to the Government to implement an existing law prohibiting anyone present in the demonstrations with the face covered or misrepresented from being able to enter impunity to create devastation or attack the Forces of Order and citizens. We did not ask anything else: we asked for an existing law to be implemented. I read for my own benefit, because I want to remind you over the years, what we have asked for with an agenda: It commits the Government to implement any circumstances necessary to prevent phenomena of violence or risks to the safety and safety of citizens, due to the failure and full implementation of the rules providing for the prohibition of concealment and misrepresentation of the face in a public place or open to the public. You also said no to an agenda of this kind. Madam President, we know that on the calendar the government left has included measures that want to restrict the ability of the forces of order to operate: I am thinking of the identifier and other measures on which the government has already ventured. In the face of all this there is an odd rule: to prevent those who want to protect the Forces of order and those who want to protect the security of being able to do so with the law of their own part, guaranteeing instead impunity, or even, in the specific case, the violent who fit in the manifestations of being able to carry out their devastations while remaining unpunished. This is what is lacking in the provision: the will to share these choices. You wanted to put trust and our vote will be against, because we cannot share the choice of a government that will entrench itself behind a measure that mentions interventions, but does not have the strength and courage to go all the way. This is because it comes from a left that does not share actions that are useful to give security to the cities, but from the political opportunism of a Minister certainly more skillful and capable of his predecessor Alfano, even if, frankly, it did not take much to be more capable of Alfano. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group]] The Minister, with opportunism and with what in other times would be called Realpolitik, presents a measure that wants to give citizens security, or rather feelings of security. In this is the scientific vision that certainly does not lack Minister Minniti: one thing is security, another is the feeling of security. We do not agree to give citizens an illusion; we want our cities to be safe, we want the mayors not to have limited powers or, in any case, to mask, under some regulatory change, an inability to operate, but we want to have measures at their disposal to deal radically with the problem of safety in cities. The Daspus and the rest are all useful things; but you did not have the courage to go all the way, to deal with the amendments we have tabled in this House, because the Government could have gone under and because the majority of the Government would not have kept the amend ments of common sense tabled by us. This, then, is a measure unfortunately collected, which as a whole also describes the characteristic of this Government: a bad copy of the previous Renzi Government, which does not have the courage to take positions, but tries to wink at a public opinion stove of the perbenism of the left, that does not fight crime and that leaves our cities in the midst of degradation. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-04-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-807.ana.u104	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-04-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-807.ana.u105	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-04-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-807.ana.u106	MAZZONI (ALA-SCLP). Madam President, today we are called to give or deny confidence in a bill of conversion of a decree-law that presupposes the existence of the conditions of necessity and urgency in the matter of the security of the cities; there is therefore the taking of action by the Government that we have, as a country, an urgent problem of security within the cities. There is no doubt that the problem is very much felt by the citizens: it is a real problem. The key word of this measure is urban security, which is defined as a public good, which affixes to the livability and decorum of the cities; a sure primary good, because from it come down all the fundamental questions of civil coexistence. There are many areas that are the subject of action to promote urban security, such as the recovery and redevelopment of degraded areas, the elimination of social exclusion factors, the prevention of crime, in particular predatory crimes, which create strong social alarm. The aim is to achieve a model of governance between different levels of government, thanks to agreements between the State and the Regions and the establishment of pacts with local authorities. I remember that the safety pacts date back to 1997, so it's not a big innovation. In order to prevent phenomena that adversely affect the safety and decency of the city, this decree-law uses mainly a system of administrative sanctions and the prohibition of frequentation of certain public establishments and urban areas to persons convicted for crimes of particular social alarm. A series of good intentions, therefore, but nothing new under the sun: many of the things just listed, in fact, were already foreseen in the measures presented to Parliament in 2008 by the then Interior Minister Maroni and the original in several points was better than the copy that is proposed to us today. We aim, for example, to protect in a more incisive way the valuable areas of our cities, those with high tourist influx and those crucial and more frequented, but we totally forget the outskirts, condemned thus to an increasing marginality and a growing degradation. In the same way the marginalized are marginalized, including the new poor, the people of the old middle class impoverished by the crisis, who today find themselves asking for help from others; it is not moving them to the periphery that solves this very serious social problem. There is provision for greater collaboration between local police and state law enforcement, but it is always fair to ask, in the face of rules of this type, what is their effective applicability. The extension of the Daspus from the stadiums also to some urban areas towards subjects of established danger is a measure shared, but could be frustrated by the fact that the violation of the ordinances of the mayors is not sanctionable from the criminal point of view, but only through administrative sanctions. The ANCI, for example, had strongly called for the abusers, in the most serious cases, to be explicitly provided for the crime of extortion, but there is no trace of this in this provision. It is expected that the Urban Daspus will be triggered in the face of the recurrence of crimes of particular social alarm, but the local police are not yet able to verify it, since they do not have access to the Viminale database and therefore cannot carry out the necessary cross-checks. The hope is that the Ministry will provide quickly, but surely it will take months and, therefore, a fundamental part of this decree-law is destined to start with the handicap. But the most relevant vulnus, in our opinion, lies precisely in the underlying philosophy of this decree-law, which moves almost entirely the protection of urban security on the local authorities and, above all, on the mayors, creating a system of responsibility without real powers, with an important spill over on the local police bodies. There are very high social issues in the area of security, such as promiscuity services, the fight against all forms of abuse, the abusive occupation of property, the sale of counterfeit goods and invasive begging. All issues that, written in a legislative text, become part of the institutional competences of the local police forces in a stable form, without the direct involvement of the state police forces. When it comes to security, the priority need should be to provide adequate instruments to the law enforcement agencies and give real powers to mayors and local administrators with concrete economic appropriations, not merely with rules-manifesto, as this is. How can people be expected to be reassured by a security measure that does not allocate even one euro to the Forces of Order, so much so that there is a special article that provides for a clause of financial invariance? This decree-law was also an opportunity to give a more modern and stable structure to the local police, which in its current connotation remains a sort of hybrid, to renew the discipline of their working relationship, to ensure forms and modalities of protection of the autonomy, compensation and professional dignity of this body, which remains fundamental for the safety of the cities. The fair compensation for the pathologies contracted because of the service has been recognized and it is certainly a step forward, but also the institutes had to be previewed of the ascertainment of the dependence of the infirmity from cause of service and the privileged pension, in addition to the suspension of every limitation of the turnover. In short, even if the draft law goes in the right direction, the appropriate resources are lacking, especially for the part of the organic plants of the local police, which remain insufficient. Another point that has made much discussion is Article 11 which, according to some, in fact provides support for the squatters of houses, palaces, real estate of private citizens, making craps of the constitutional right to private property. According to the Government, the article prevents occupational occupiers organized in the rackets from using minors or the sick to avoid evictions, but in fact introduces a new bureaucratic passage that risks creating confusion and different interpretations. The positive figure is, finally, the introduction of the arrest in deferred flagency also for public demonstrations and not only for sports. In this way the pockets of impunity are avoided, as it is possible to bring violent people to justice quickly. The latest episodes of urban guerrilla warfare have shown that the relationship of force between violent antagonists and the Forces of Order is changing against the guardians of public security. Again, however, the opportunity was lost to allocate the resources necessary to overcome the criticalities that afflict the mobile departments that with the current staff, constantly decreasing for many years for the cuts to safety, have arrived under the level of guard. For these reasons and, first of all, the obvious and enormous gap between the objectives of the measure and the lack of instruments made available, ours can only be a vote contrary to the decree-law and the confidence that has been placed on it.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-04-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-807.ana.u107	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-04-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-807.ana.u108	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-04-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-807.ana.u109	WAR (Art. 1-MDP). Madam President, the decree-law deals with the issue of the safety of cities on which mayors have long been required to intervene, which are the first reference of citizens on the territory and are often faced with security needs without adequate financial resources and staff. This need for security must be taken seriously. It must also be aware, however, that it is often based on fears fed and exploited in art for the purposes of electoral consensus, fears that risk bringing to closure and rejection towards the most fragile subjects and on the margins of society. It is necessary to reflect on the fact that the perception of insecurity in metropolitan areas, as Minister Minniti also recalled, increases precisely during the period when there is a significant decrease in crime (9.4 percent less in 2016 than in 2015; 23.2 percent in January 2017 compared to January 2016). The decree-law seeks a difficult balance between a necessity, perceived as an emergency, for which non-ordinary instruments of intervention are required, and the will to prepare and strengthen interventions necessarily longer period that rest, on the one hand, on the co-responsibility and sharing of all institutional levels of government, on the other hand on the need to strengthen the instruments of social cohesion, inclusion and removal of the factors that determine the marginalization of increasing groups of population. It is precisely for this approach, which is also reflected in the search for organic interventions of a preventive nature and which marks the main difference with the purely safe and repressive approach that had been followed in 2008 by the then Minister Maroni, that the Group Article 1-Movement democratic and progressive decided to vote in favour of the measure. However, the bad habit of transforming into a monocameral the process of analysis and conversion into law of decree-laws that should instead be bicameral and that prevented us from intervening on aspects that we consider critical of the provision, those contained in particular in Articles 8 to 10. The mayor's power of order which allows him to intervene in derogation from the ordinary regime, in compliance with the principles deriving from the judgment of the Constitutional Court No 115 of 2010, must in fact take place due to exceptional events, within defined time limits and motivation. Orders therefore represent a restriction of the principle of legality in circumstances not foreseen, therefore not confrontable with ordinary instruments, but the more the assumption for their use is indeterminate, as could be the case in the cases referred to in Article 8, with reference to concepts that appear not sufficiently typical to us, such as that of livability and urban decorum, the more the restriction of legality risks being wide. Therefore, our concern is that this new power, provided for in Article 8, will remain, on the one hand, confined to the element of exceptionality that justifies it, and, on the other hand, be closely monitored to prevent abuse and misuse. I am also saying this because in the text of the law it would have been appropriate to correct a passage in which, strangely, it is expected that an order, which should be activated in emergency situations, can be used as a means of prevention for the emergence of certain crime phenomena. That's hard to understand. Obviously, the other elements of restriction of freedom, such as freedom of access to places for particular subjects, are also tools to be used in this emerging perspective. In our overall assessment of the decree-law there is, on the one hand, concern about the possible misuse of these instruments and, on the other hand, the recognition of the fact that a step has finally been taken in the right direction, trying to build a collaboration in the institutional network. We count very much on the fact that it is the second aspect that prevails, but we do not hide that the mayor may be in an unequal situation with regard to these two horns of the problem: on the one hand, an additional instrument is made available to him, but of a repressive type; on the other hand, there is not enough attention - but it is a more general issue, which concerns local authorities and which cannot be addressed only in this decree-law - in providing the mayors with financial and human means to cope with the problems, which are largely social inclusion. [[Applause from the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and ……]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-04-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-807.ana.u110	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-04-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-807.ana.u111	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-04-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-807.ana.u112	PANIZE (Aut (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT)-PSI-MAIE). Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, representatives of the Government, also thanks to the work that has been done in the House, we believe that this decree-law can be hailed as a positive novelty, because it introduces a more modern and effective vision of the concept of security, focusing on the objective of integrated security. In our country there is a sense of insecurity for thefts in the apartments (about 200,000 a year, one every two minutes), for the muzzles, the pickpockets and, more generally, for the impossibility, in particular for women, of being able to shoot alone during the night hours. It is a sense of insecurity exacerbated by impunity that accompanies certain crimes: 97 percent of the apartment thefts remain without a culprit, while, of the remaining 3 percent, it is just over 0.5 percent the percentage of those responsible for more than a month's imprisonment. Pursuing these crimes with determination is the matter of the Forces of Order, which must be helped with more resources, tools and personnel. Our thanks and our solidarity go to those who risk their lives every day, but it is clear that this cannot be enough, as their representatives continue to denounce. A chapter in itself deserves drug dealing and prostitution. Prostitution is no longer an issue for citizens who call for action by the authorities, who, in turn, do not have the necessary tools to combat this phenomenon seriously. On drugs, especially in the big centres but now unfortunately also in the smaller ones, the drug store gets to occupy real portions of territory, streets and squares that become nobody's land, and, unfortunately, the use of drugs has become practice even among the very young. The garrison and police patrol performed an embankment function. I am thinking of what, for example, happened in Trento in front of the station, where, thanks to the constant monitoring of the Forces of Order, a legality has been partially restored, but it is now based on a very fragile balance. Safety is a primary right that must be guaranteed and it must also be guaranteed as regards the abuses that many citizens are forced to suffer every day: from the lace paid to the abusive valet for fear of damage to their car, to the expenses to clean the windows of their shop targeted by some writers, to the windows broken or damaged. For too long the latter have been considered as marginal facts that did not require general attention, yet, for those who suffer them, they are real unbearable violence, especially if repeated, whose damage weighs financially, especially in a period of crisis such as the present, which end up conditioning or limiting personal freedom. The repressive action of the forces of order cannot therefore be undermined, but it can be accompanied by a series of instruments and measures that extend to the mayors and citizens the functions of prevention and protection of the territory as well as repression of the phenomenon. For this reason it is important that the measure under consideration provides new and concrete tools to the mayors, who are the subjects on which the concerns of the citizens fall, but also who have the greater knowledge of the territory, able to identify the type of intervention necessary. It is good, then, to introduce the Daspus for drug dealers, with the quaestor who can arrange for the prohibition of access to the premises where the offences have been committed for those who have been convicted of drug dealing. Positive is also the possibility to adopt orders aimed at overcoming situations of neglect or degradation of the territory, in particular to protect the tranquility and rest of the residents, as well as those to prevent the emergence of criminal phenomena or illegality, including begging with the exploitation of children and disabled people, the illegal occupation of public and private spaces. Also positive is the involvement for re-educational purposes, but also in contrast to social hardship, of volunteers who can make a significant contribution, because we must nourish the culture of legality. Security is a subject that needs the contribution of all, institutions and police forces, but also of citizens, who must take care of their territory and operate, in their small, to promote their action. From this point of view, the economic resources allocated by the decree-law for the outskirts and their development from here to the next few years are to be emphasized. As the Group for Autonomies, PSI-MAIE, we welcome this measure because, as we have said, it introduces a different and hopefully more effective vision. As the Minister has rightly pointed out, it is a measure for the weakest and most exposed, because the strong subjects security are able to assure themselves privately, provided of course that, even in the next regulatory interventions, we proceed along the road that has been drawn and do not go backwards, as we have seen too many times in this country. We welcome this measure, not least because it comes a few weeks from the immigration measure. Italy, as we have said several times, cannot manage alone to face such a great and epochal phenomenon. Accelerating return procedures for those who do not run away from war fronts also means preventing the emergence of possible social tensions and also reducing pressure on the territories most exposed to the phenomenon. In short, we believe that the two measures travel together, on a road that must be pursued without hesitation, with determination, in order to increase the security of our cities, of our countries. I therefore declare the Group's vote in favour of the measure for Autonomies - PSI -MAIE.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-04-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-807.ana.u113	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-04-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-807.ana.u114	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-04-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-807.ana.u115	MANCUSO (AP-CpE). Madam President, the Group of the European People's Alternative welcomes this decree-law and will vote in favour of it, because the measure contains a number of measures which certainly aim at better coexistence, especially in the peripheral areas of the big cities, where the greatest social tensions lie. Precisely thanks to some measures present in this decree-law, we believe that it can be restored, especially in degraded areas, where it is difficult to make certain rules prevail, a better civil coexistence and restored a better dignity to people. This decree-law allows us to do so through measures that are not merely repressive, as someone wants us to believe, but that must be directed absolutely towards the involvement and social inclusion, the elimination of all those phenomena that determine the exclusion of certain social categories, which are understood and perceived by civil society as a burden when they are not and to which human dignity must be restored. The measures concerning urban regeneration and regeneration of the outskirts, even if we have some concerns about the financial cover, are certainly based on common sense and have serious aims that must certainly be strengthened and fed. Besides that, we talk about the mayor sheriff and the power of the mayors, but who knows better than the mayors the reality of the community that governs? Who has better tools than the mayors, who are the ordinances? The armed arm of the mayors and local administrations are the urban and municipal police, those who have contact with the people and know the territory well and better than any other can be witnesses of what happens within a peripheral context: who more than they need adequate tools to be able to carry out an activity of control and denunciation, when is the case? The mayor acts through the instrument of ordinances and measures that have been provided for in this decree-law, such as the provisions to protect security and urban decorum, the order of removal and the prohibition of access, conditional suspensions with prohibition of access, measures against arbitrary occupation of buildings are all measures aimed at giving the citizen the certainty that the State is present and not only through their institutional channels, which are the prefects, the Quaestors and the Forces of order, but also through integrated security mechanisms between institutions and local authorities. 15.15 p.m. (Follow-up). It is precisely there that we must act and that is precisely the issue: the local authorities - whether they be the Provinces, the metropolitan cities or the municipalities - through their own channels and the tools at their disposal must be able to restore the culture of security to citizenship. In fact, security is certainly culture, because it means livability and is indispensable for a good civil coexistence. I believe that this decree-law brings absolutely innovative and useful elements and measures to make coexistence more dignified, especially in the outskirts of large cities. Since the last report of the Ministry of the Interior we have seen that Italy is certainly not the last place in Europe with regard to the incidence of crimes and, indeed, is in the penultimate place with regard to the incidence of murders. So there is something that works from the point of view of intelligence, prevention and land control. For Italian citizenship to be safer, at a time when this problem has been overly emphasized by the media and certain channels of information, it is good to avoid that there are phenomena of particular psychosis, because this is what it is about. I realize that we are at a difficult time for everyone, but the decree-law under consideration will serve to restore to the people the serenity and the certainty that the State is close and is present and not only with repressive measures, but also with measures that face recovery, inclusion and the possibility of improving coexistence. Therefore, the Group of Popular Alternatives - Centristi per l'Europa will vote in favour of the conversion into law of the decree-law under consideration. [[Applause from Senators Albertini and Alicata.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-04-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-807.ana.u116	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-04-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-807.ana.u117	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-04-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-807.ana.u118	MORRA (M5S). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, representatives of the Government, in many Italian dialects there is the proverb that we cannot have a wedding with dried figs and it seems to me that it can immediately give the idea of the measure that we are examining and on which - as seems obvious from my beginning - the 5 Star Movement will express a vote of absolute opposition. I would like to say at once that there is still something to be saved, namely the reinstatement of municipal police workers - and it is hoped that this measure can be extended in the future to the provincial police - of the recognition of fair compensation for any infirmity, injury or more serious consequences caused by the service provided, as well as the relative pension treatment. I say this because, as usual, in Italy we approve of certain measures to favour some, without thinking about all the others, so if, in the fulfilment of his duty, a military of the Carabinieri's weapon or a policeman, unfortunately for him, is faced with a certain incident, he is treated in a certain way by the State, whereas if similar case happens to a municipal policeman, the State thinks differently. This is Italy, Italy that we must inherit, because sooner or later, we will replace you with the Government and change some things. Another point I would like to highlight is that we are finally talking about the involvement of local authorities in security management. The Minister spoke on several occasions, even when he gave an important interview following a controversy triggered by Roberto Saviano, claiming that no longer leaving to the state apparatus alone the determination of preventive and repressive decisions in the area of local security would certainly have been a conquest of democracy. Personally, I believe that the involvement of citizens can only be the wish of all, in the prevention and possibly even repression of the act. But how do you do all this? First of all, investing not in simply security equipment. On the contrary, it seems to me that the only real investment introduced is that aimed at strengthening video surveillance in some areas of particular tourist value and, therefore, economic; in areas where it lives or, however, lives population that is not defined by sociologists "a marginal risk." So, we spend (at least this is the understanding of the Government) so that externally we give ourselves a polite and decent image, without perimeter at all concepts that will then be decisive, in their application, in order to avoid that there can be abuse as it has, with intelligence, noticed my colleague War. In fact, if the concept to which the member of the provincial committee for public order and security must be invoked - where, in this case, and it is meritorious, the mayor is also involved, along with representatives of voluntary institutions and associations that have been working on the territory for a long time in favour of the common good, which is the whole city - it is typed in an absolutely generic way, then "decoro" can mean everything. And if it can mean anything, when the law is not easily applicable it becomes as easily interpretable. This can generate those situations of arbitrariness for which, perhaps, in Padua we act in a certain way and in Verona or Vicenza we do in a different way, remaining in the Venetian sphere. I remember that a former Padua minister, then became Minister of the Republic, when he was mayor of the city of Saint Anthony, decided to erect a wall to avoid dealing problems. A democratic conscience should first work in order to understand what it is to generate the discomfort that leads more and more to seek satisfaction in another world than to that in which one should have full satisfaction. Then let us say what we are like: we should, Minister, operate a urban revolution, so that the suburbs should no longer be suburbs, but should be fully integrated by becoming noble parts of the civil assembly. Then you can say that the historic center is located in that part of the city, but there can be a citizen of series A, who lives in the historical center or anyway in areas of particular value, and then the suburbs or villages particularly degraded. I would like to remind everyone of what Chiara Appandino said in the settlement speech, when he reiterated that the task of the administration that was going to settle would be to recompose after decades of laceration, to suture rather than, in fact, intensify the division. Unfortunately, we have an attention that too often even local politics reserves only and only - excuse me - to profit, to business, to the flow of trade and tourism. If we want to try to change the country, we must attack first of all a cultural perspective that requires attention to the Parioli or Monti district, and distracted, perhaps, towards Tor Vergata and Tor Bella Monaca (these are names that everyone knows). With regard, then, to Article 8, on which the controversy was triggered, the one in which the Daspos is feared preventive and so on, I know, Minister, that you certainly did not want to allow an interpretation to Roberto Saviano, but I also know that certain things are not done either to the right or to the left, because the law of the State such is everywhere. Therefore, I want to see unacceptable legal practices pursued everywhere. I would also like to remind ourselves, all of us, that certain phenomena of marginalization and degradation are fought mainly by investing in social services policies; policies that for too long those who manage local authorities, especially the mayors, are obliged, year after year, to reconsider, to reduce, to decrease because, because of the decrease in transfers of resources, there is not the possibility, for example, to combat the phenomenon of school dispersal, which is then what in Naples leads many minors to be protagonists of microcriminal episodes, on which we then engage. Well, an intelligent and forward-looking policy - it is not up to me to put down right, centre and left categories - a policy that wants to be at the centre of the debate the citizen, especially the weaker one, must do nothing but invest in culture, education and the prevention of degradation. Let us all ask ourselves, then: but, for example, the introduction of citizenship income, which could be an important tool to allow many families to indicate in education and social inclusion the way to become citizens in all round, is not to be preferred to an article 8 in which we return, meritoriously, to tackle the problem, but still - let me say - to Don Quixote? Those are the policies we have to make, Minister, and that is the bar we have to overcome. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-04-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-807.ana.u119	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-04-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-807.ana.u120	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-04-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-807.ana.u121	De Cristofaro (Misto-SI-SEL). Mr President, Minister, we express a very strong disagreement with the decree-law in question. It really seems to us that, once again, the only answer that politics can give is to bring back the hands of the clock of history, let me say so. This time, however, Minister, the clock is brought back even further than we have been accustomed to seeing in the past months. It does not come back a hundred years ago as, for example, it was done with the jobs act, with the abolition of the protections that the world of work had conquered at the price of hard struggles and sacrifices, but if possible even further behind. In short, you are really returning the clock of history to the dark times when poverty was a crime and when someone committed an act against decency, public morality or religion, a gathering of men pronounced the judgment of a summary court, which acted very often on class or census interests. Here, we are not surprised, frankly, that it is the League that rides these instincts and determines such a profound cultural regression and I am not surprised, on these issues, even the ambiguities that we too often detect also in the 5 Star Movement, for example in its mayors and in the choices that sometimes make, too interested, in our opinion, on these issues, to pursue surveys and a common sense that unfortunately, for a thousand reasons, crosses the country. On the other hand, I am very impressed that this regression has now broken even in those parties which, at least in words, refer to the ideals of the left, of democracy and of progress. You see, Minister, I learned, when I was younger and I was beginning to attend the circles of the political left, that the so-called decorum, let's say, was first of all a matter of substance, that we had to try to give social answers to those phenomena that produce marginality and insecurity. For the left a homeless person or a poor person who rumbles into a dumpster were never a public order problem, but a fragility to be assisted, to be supported also, a fragility that called for a social practice, a design of complex networks made up of associations, social services and volunteering. Yet, I would like to say, the social crisis gives us dramatic figures that we should be able to read beyond the cold statistics, not only when we talk about that, but also when we talk about the so-called urban decorum: five million people live in absolute poverty - five million! - and nine million in conditions of so-called relative poverty. Faced with these numbers, we should always remember that the law and, with it, every abstract call to formal legality, without social justice becomes overwhelmed and sometimes, even, authoritarianism. I have to say, Mr President, that this fundamental trend which is now common to a large part of Italy's policy is really too much squealing. We also saw it a few days ago in the Senate, we see it every day: we are a very guaranteeing country, enormously guarantorist, when we are dealing with the powerful, with us parliamentarians who are entitled to four degrees of judgment and, more generally, with those who wear the jacket and the tie, the white collar, and instead we are very judicial when we talk about poor Christians, the homeless, when we talk about migrants, when we talk about the poor and the Roma. Towards them, instead, we think of applying the institute of preventive police, really with a cultural twist, as well as political, which for decades, however, has been a trademark of the opponent, of the thought of the right, in Italy as in other countries of the world. Of course, I do not miss at all that the basic inspiration is to give answers to a so-called common sense, but in doing so, however, we renounce what should always be the highest task of politics, which should be precisely the attempt not to supinely follow the dominant opinion, but to make also cultural hegemony, to build a common sense, capable, for example, of measuring itself with the new phase that now, at least for a decade, crosses our country, that of a social crisis that produces precisely that war among the poor as its most immediate consequence. I tell the government with the utmost clarity that I am capable of: riding the reactionary impulses and chasing the right on its ground will not bring you any benefit, not even electoral. We have told you this in unsuspecting times, when in the past we have denounced many times the danger of a repressive drift that would invade society. We said that when special legislation, the so-called Daspus, was introduced into the sports field, which, in our opinion, constituted corruptive elements of constitutionally guaranteed freedoms. At the time, we said that we started with sporting events and we would arrive at the country and at the integrity of society and we believe, precisely, that the decree-law at our examination goes precisely in the direction we feared: the aggravated continuation of a line, moreover already seen in all these years, mentioned, for example, by Law No. 125 of 2008, that of Minister Maroni who then, fortunately, was dismantled by the Constitutional Court. We should have listened much more to the words of Pope Francis but, it is known that the call to the Pope, which is much abused in recent months, then, when it comes to putting concrete policies into the field, remains a formal call: to welcome, protect, promote and integrate. Instead, you say the opposite: punishing, punishing, imprisoning, excluding. It is as if, in the face of the social crisis, we chose the easiest and most hypocritical path: not to socially address the big and complex issues before us, but to confine ourselves to turning our eyes to the other side. It's a bit like in those South American cities, when you build those big hotels for tourists, and to hide from the sight of the moneyy customers the shacks of the poor, you build those walls that are used not to make people look any further, not to spoil the mood and maybe even to prevent some sense of guilt. In the same way, you move the problem a little further, move your gaze out of the good living room of the cities, out of the eyes of the thinkers. It is a shortcut without breath, as well as dignity, lords of the government. It is too easy to declare war on the poor and not on poverty, on the addicts and not on drug addiction, on evictions and not evictions. This time - and I would like to say this very loudly in this House - we will not limit ourselves to dissent in Parliament and parliamentary opposition. With social workers, voluntary associations, even those mayors - because fortunately there are, and they are more than you think - who do not share this approach, we will try to create what will not only be an opposition, but will try to become a disobedience to a propagandistic and muscular approach, to a safe and repressive concession of urban security. We really feel a sidereal distance from this approach and believe that this so profound cultural failure that is put into effect with this decree-law, makes this distance every moment, day after day, ever deeper. [[Applause from the Misso-SI-SEL Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-04-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-807.ana.u122	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-04-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-807.ana.u123	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-04-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-807.ana.u124	Gasparri (FI-PdL XVII). Mr President, Mr Minniti, our Group will vote against, both because trust has been placed once again, both for reasons of merit, and in summary terms I will try to sum up by giving an overall assessment of the interventions that have continued in the House today, in the examination of the immigration measure, which has taken a parallel path to this on security. And I go to the credit for the things that are wrong and the things that we would do if we had the chance to be heard. We agree on the strengthening of the role of the mayors and have always pursued this line; however, we believe that in this measure there is a theoretical and not practical power, because also the famous Daspo, the possibility of removing people, is not supported by measures of criminal nature, so it risks being a Manzoni cries and to download expectations on the mayors. In fact, the citizens will say to the mayors: have they given you powers and what do you do to clean up my neighborhood, to put order in the city? Actually, there's no penalty. Once again, Minister, the subject of the local police has been eluded. The role of the mayors is strengthened, but it remains a resistance also of the apparatuses of Government and also of the Viminale - let me tell you, because I have known these events for many years - to the valorization of the role of local police. The latter, moreover, aspire, to a large extent, to a different location. We cannot expect the local police to play a more prominent role and then leave it out of the security and defence sector, leave it under the contract of the local authorities and not allow, even in terms of rights, a series of recognitions that go with fair compensation to the privileged pension. These are also the problems of the staff, it is not that we can ignore them. We therefore believe that, sooner or later, local police should be exploited. Their characteristics are different from those of the Police and the Carabinieri, but we believe that, in response to a request for greater intervention and action, there must be a different recognition: normative, social security and contract. You can't see anything about this. We are also concerned about immigration. Mr. Minister, I'm being vetted by a troubling series of hearings. In this regard, I would like to thank President Latorre for accepting the request of the Forza Italia Group to carry out a survey of non-governmental organisations operating on the Mediterranean Sea. Minister, most of the hearings lead to you, or more precisely to the Viminal. This morning in the Defence Commission there was a hearing of representatives of a Spanish non-governmental humanitarian organization (which is not among the main ones), who told us that, when they receive the calls, they call the Coast Guard and the Viminal tells the Coast Guard where they have to go: they made a terrible impression on me. And it ended a quarter of an hour ago the videoconference hearing of the executive director of Frontex from Warsaw, who said that there has never been such a strong presence of naval means in the Mediterranean: there is Frontex, there is EUNAVFOR Med, which is a European mission, there is NATO, there is everything and more. There has never been - and this was said by Frontex's manager, who was connected with the Italian Senate just now on videoconference from Warsaw - such a high number of arrivals and deaths, which have arrived, as we all know, at almost 5,000 in 2016. We have been described as a disaster, with these NGOs telling us that, in the end, it is the Viminale who tells the Coast Guard whether it is necessary to land in Augusta, Palermo, Reggio Calabria or elsewhere. It's a disaster that can't go on. You have assumed the responsibility - and we acknowledge this - to create detention centers; you have had to rename them, to overcome some resistance on the left; but if in some days they land 1,000, 2,000, 3,000 people it is useless that you make enemies on the left for 1,600 places of detention: let alone, because it is a drop in the sea, it is the case to say. In fact, the number of additional detention and recognition posts that are intended to be carried out is absolutely surpassed by daily landings. You, therefore, make enemies to the left for nothing, because the measure is insufficient. The Senate Defence Committee's cognitive investigation will provide additional evidence to understand that it is a disaster. We have brought the State Forestry Corps into the Carabinieri Army; we also change the name of the Coast Guard and call it the Coast Board. I have great respect for the staff of that body and I also spoke to the commander, but I must tell you that the conversation I had did not reassure me at all. Moreover, the political, national and international directives are wrong. People continue to transport and all this is reflected in urban security and the number of crimes, which are not an exclusive of foreigners. In Italy, unfortunately, we have mafia, camorra and 'ndrangheta, so we are not in a position to make morale to too many people in the world; however, just because we have these crimes, we do not see why import another number, so high, of people who, having no place and stability, increase the number of crimes. We do not, therefore, agree with the lack of serious measures. The other day, the Head of the Swedish Government, after the dramatic incident in Stockholm (one of many), said that 3,000 people must be expelled in that city and they can't do it. I therefore turn to Parliament and the Government: it is not just a problem of Minister Minniti and the decree-law, but an international problem. There's a declared war. Immigration is not all criminal, we know very well, but it has altered problems: Sweden is a country that is very open and today it is with what is found. We must, then, create faster expulsion mechanisms, because expulsions are very complicated. Frontex told us just now that in 2016 he did 11,000 expulsions: what do you want them to be? The first problem is not to let others in, because when too many of them come in, it's complicated; it's complicated in Stockholm, where they can't expel 3,000 people, and it's in Italy, where we should expel so many. There is a need for extraordinary measures at international level: on border controls, on stop traffic in the Mediterranean, aggravated by non-governmental organisations that are fueling criminal activities. There is also a problem of combating terrorism, which is connected and requires extraordinary means. I summarize proposals that Forza Italia has made in a thousand locations: we need more metalectors, we need cameras, we need more controls, we need to resume the policy of policemen and neighborhood carabinieri, we need to encourage (as has been done: very well, we take note, we started that policy) the use of the Armed Forces in the streets to increase the number of presences. I was very worried to know that Amri, the Berlin bomber, who was then stopped in Sesto San Giovanni, was known and had also been in prison for a considerable number of years. The Uzbek of Stockholm was known. Almost always those responsible for these attacks are people who had been recorded and identified. Perhaps we need to start questioning at international level if we do not need very special measures. It will be said that there are constitutional principles of democracy. But we are in a war and in wars there are also need for defense exercised by the means proper to the times of war. But this is a subject that, as you see, goes far beyond the decree-law under consideration. We are very perplexed about the issues that have become common in Parliament today. Humanitarian protection is also a concept that in Italian practice has been extended to a great extent, which serves to keep many illegals. The Law on unaccompanied minors, which was passed a few weeks ago, as Senator Rizzotti said on that occasion, is too generous. He did not want to introduce medical monitoring mechanisms that could make us more sure that we are facing minors and not presumed minors. We have an immigration situation which continues to be very serious in terms of arrivals and landings. How are we going to solve this, then, if we use hot cloths as mini decrees? We don't solve anything at all. We are very ready for a national and international confrontation on special measures and also on expenditure. You must also make the kitchen with the ingredients you have. The European Union must decide that security costs go outside the famous deficit parameters or we cannot fight a war against internal crime, against international terrorism, against the disorder of cities by ordinary and economic means. That is why we have always said from the opposition that we are ready for a political, financial and legislative battle in Europe because we cannot do things with limited means, so it is true that the 80 euros of staff have not yet been paid out. Let's hope they arrive in April. On the contract we see the announcements. The then President Renzi, a few days before the referendum, promised everything: he committed himself to 5 billion spending. It was a referendary promise that did not help him to win the referendum or to appease the anxieties of the staff. Minister Minniti, we are very pleased that a maneuver has been frustrated, even for our commitment, to put the famous codes of identification. Instead of taking action in favour of the police forces, they consider themselves enemies to be branded with a number in order to be able to report them. [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII]] Minister, we have also talked about this: let alone this purpose, even with reference to department numbers. It's a mistake; it's a wrong message. Colleagues, when we discuss the draft law on torture in the next few days, we will of course be against it. Who can be in favour? But be careful, because we put aside that text - as President Zanda will remember - because the rules must be well written to prevent there being some kind of aggression against the police forces when, in order to guarantee public order, they sometimes have to make legitimate use of force. I also saw the images from a few days ago when they stopped that immigrant in Milan using firearms. Minister, why didn't you introduce the taser, that weapon with electrical impulses that we propose and that in cases like that could allow a less serious and risky intervention and at the same time able to block the deed? Gentlemen of the Government, we have made a series of proposals that both the vote of confidence and the lack of listening to the Government in general have not allowed us to introduce in the previous two decree-laws and in this. These were measures of an economic nature, contesting at European level to have more means, more appropriate technical means, more staff, policemen and policemen in the neighbourhood, more protection of local police, cameras, cameras, metalectors, reductions in house security costs. Many people today defend themselves and, therefore, tax deductions for those who make their home safer should be introduced. Even on self-defense, we don't want an armed nation. It must be the police forces who legitimately use force, but we can't even see people dying of despair after being robbed and sentenced to repay the one who wanted to rob him. It is daily Italian news, so much so that in the Chamber the proposals of Forza Italia begin to break into other groups. We don't want the far west, but we want that if someone defends their home they shouldn't suffer trials and be considered criminal and victim the one who brought violence and threats. We will reject our proposals for the Fire Departments, for the Civil Protection that, in recent months, has seen itself willing and courageous, but weakened compared to the years in which it was valued by the governments of Berlusconi and put in condition to act with a very different effectiveness from what, unfortunately, we have also seen in the seismic emergency. We believe that empty prison measures should no longer be taken. We also claim the merit in this measure - in the House our colleagues at first reading were luckier because the text was less armored - that they were able to include, thanks to the amendments of Forza Italia, the delayed arrest in the presence of obvious evidence against those who may have committed a crime. We have contributed from the opposition to the improvement of this aspect, but too many other things have been left out. They need insurance for police personnel and a new contract. Minister, in this decree-law there is a rule that risks making the clearing of occupied buildings more difficult, sometimes from social centers, sometimes from foreigners. Farraginous procedures are introduced. We must clear out what is illegally occupied, not guarantee the occupation of the occupants: that is also very serious urban violence. Therefore, for reasons of merit and for reasons of trust we will vote no, ready for comparison, because the package of safety proposals of Forza Italia is the only solution to make our nation safer and more livable. [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-04-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-807.ana.u125	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-04-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-807.ana.u126	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-04-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-807.ana.u127	I would warn colleagues who are following us, either for video or audio, that this is the last explanation of vote, and then we will proceed to the call on the question of trust. Martini (PD). Mr President, the Group of the Party of European Socialists will vote for confidence and for the measure we are considering. It will do so for the reasons of substance and analysis which have been proposed here and also for the merit of the content indicated in the report by my colleague Mr Pagliari, whom I thank for his work. As far as we are concerned, I want to do so with the arguments that my colleagues supported in the debate, both here in the Senate (I am referring to my colleagues Albano, Favero and Mirabelli), and to the House in recent weeks. I will not retrace them all, of course, for brevity and also because I think they are known, but I will highlight only the salient points. The decree-law clearly defined the concept of public security for the first time. Urban security therefore becomes a public good, closely linked to the improvement of the quality of life of cities. It may seem a subject that is perhaps too general for those who lose a little in the details of things, but I think it is a political point not to be lost. Steps to take are also indicated and are part of the security: social and cultural urban qualification, the recovery of degraded areas, the promotion of the culture of legality. We have an agenda that supports the concept of security as a public good. Secondly, there is an increased and more detailed role of the mayors and municipalities and more laxly of the autonomy, beyond the rhetoric about the mayors sheriffs. They will be able to intervene more effectively on the degradation, on the times of sale and administration of alcohol and on the times of the games rooms. It is, however, a contribution to improving the quality of cities. We have greater clarification of the competences of the State-City relationship and the institutional set-up of the Security Government is being improved. This is an issue that we should be very interested in, since we have often complained about the uncertainty of competences and the overlapping of roles: the State deals with public order and security, Regions and Municipalities make agreements with the State for integrated security. It's definitely a positive work trace. The role of local police in integrated security is recognised: not a B-series police, but a crucial structure because it knows the territory and has daily relations with citizens. The fair compensation and reimbursement of hospital expenses for reasons of service that were eliminated in 2011 are restored. Municipalities with budgets in order can hire local police officers. It is a contribution that can be made. Finally, there are new instruments of prevention and repression: administrative sanctions, such as the removal of those who prevent the use of public places, parking spaces and abusive traders, and to protect important areas socially and economically. Measures are also provided against alcohol abuse and vandalism and the delayed arrest that allows the Forces of the Order to work better is restored. On the basis of these content - which I acknowledge to Minister Minniti and to the Government - I would like to make three general considerations in order to conclude my statement. The first is this: there is an effort to link prevention and repression better. These are two elements to keep together all the time. We do not want the logic of fear to prevail, irresponsibly fueled by too many political, social, communicative and informative subjects, because it leads nowhere and does not allow us to intervene on the causes of the problems we face. The problem of security is not solved by the infinite tightening of penalties, by the creation of walls and barriers, nor by private self-defense, even if armed. Intelligent action is needed that combines prevention and repression and the security pacts will include inclusion, social solidarity and the fight against marginality. I know that many people say that these are words that will not follow, but they are a political and institutional commitment that will win us and call us all to responsibility. It is a new field on which it is worth working with conviction and it is thanks to the decree-law in question to have re-proposed it forcefully. (Follows Martini). Secondly, we return to talking more carefully about the outskirts: this is an important issue and it cannot be a matter of fashion or that is raised only by the analysts of the electoral results and the various referendums. I am referring to the subject of the peripheries intended both geographically and socially. Today most people live in the outskirts, even in the big cities, while those who live in the historic centers are the large minority of the same metropolis; many people feel themselves suburban anyway. This is the result of the growth of social inequalities and also of the iniquities present in the same economic development. I believe that having put this issue back at the centre of the debate is a political contribution that we cannot underestimate. Finally, there is the theme of the relationship between the State and the Municipalities, between the State and the Regions, between the State and the self-government. It is an important point of general value. We come from a phase in which the theme of the relationship between center and autonomy has often been lived as a divisive, for example in the debate on Title V in constitutional reform. Now we know that a contrast, a distance between state and self-government is not necessary either on security or on everything else. We therefore take the opportunity offered by this decree-law to relaunch the prospect of serious, effective and cooperative self-government and we oppose the culture of centralization at all costs, which produces neither savings nor better efficiency of the State. To conclude, Mr President, I think that this is a commitment that deserves support and continuous work. We hope that this decree-law will also stimulate a more intense social dialogue and a confrontation in the territory and is a stimulus for a reformism that grows from below together with the cities, territories and local institutions. That would be a big contribution to all of us. [[Applause from the PD Group and Senator Dirindin.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-04-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-807.ana.u128	We shall therefore proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-04-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-807.ana.u129	I refer to the vote on the single article of bill No. 2754, of conversion to law, with amendments, of Decree-Law No. 14 of 20 February 2017, in the text approved by the Chamber of Deputies, on the approval of which the Government has posed the question of trust. I recall that pursuant to Rule 94, second paragraph, of the Constitution and pursuant to Rule 161, paragraph 1, of the Rules of Procedure, the vote on the matter of trust will take place by roll-call vote. Each senator called by the Senator Secretary will have to vote before the Presidency. The senators for trust will answer yes; the opposing senators will answer no; the senators who intend to abstain will speak accordingly. I now draw by lot the name of the senator from whom the roll call will begin. (The name of Senator Candiani is drawn by lot.) I invite the Senator Secretary to proceed with the appeal, starting with Senator Candiani and bearing in mind the two requests for early voting that have been received. SCOMA, secretary, makes the appeal. The senators: Aiello, Albano, Albertini, Amati, Angioni, Anitori, Astorre Battista, Berger, White, Bonaiuti, Borioli, Broglia, Bubbico, Buemi Caleo, Cantini, Capacchione, Cardinals, Cassano, Cattaneo, Chiavaroli, Chiti, Cirinnà, Cocincich, Collina, Colucci, Corsini, Cucca D'Adda, Dalla Zuanna, D'Ascoli, D'Ascoli, De Biasi, De Poli, Del Barba, Della Vedova, Di Giacomo, Di Giorgi, D'Onghia Esposito Giuseppe, Esposito Stefano Fabbri, Faverini, Faverni, Fedeli, Ferrara Elena, Filippin, Finocchiaro, Guerrani, Fornaro, Fravezzi Gatti, Gentile, Gianni, Gianni, Maverni, Ginetti, Ginetti, Ginetti, Ginetti, Ginetti, Gianetti, Gianetti, Gianetti, Gianetti, Gian, Gian, Gian, Gian, Gian, Gian, Gian, Gian, Gian, Gio, Gio, Gio, Gio, Gio, Gio, Gio, Gio, Gio, Gio, Gio, Gio, Gio, Gio, Gio, Gio, Gio, Gio, Gio, Gio, Gio, Gio, Gio, Gio, Gio, Gio, Gio, Gio The senators: Airola, Alicata, Amoruso, Aracri, Auricchio Barozzino, Bernini, Bertacco, Bertorotta, Blundo, Bocchino, Bonfrisco, Bottici, Bruni, Buccarella, Bulgarelli Calderoli, Caliendo, Candiani, Cappelletti, Carraro, Casaletto, Catalfo, Centinario, Ceroni, Cervellini, Ciampolillo, Comaroli, Council, Cotti, Crimi D'Alì, D'Ambrosio Lettieri, D'Anna, De Cristofaro, De Petris, De Pietro, De Siano, Di Maggio, Divina, Donno Falanga, Fasano, Fattori, Fazzone, Ferrara Mario, Floris Gaetti, Galimberti, Gasparri, Giovanardi, Giro, Giro, Giotto Lezzi, Liuzzi, Lucidi Malan, Mandelli, Mandelli Senators abstain: Counts Fucksia. (Senators Bencini, Orellana, Romani Maurizio and Stefano declare that they do not participate in the vote). PRESIDENT. - The debate is I declare the vote closed and invite the Secretary Senators to proceed with the counting of votes. (Secretary Senators proceed to count votes). I declare the result of the roll-call vote by appeal of the sole article of the bill n. 2754, of conversion into law, with amendments, of Decree-Law n. 14 of 20 February 2017, in the text approved by the Chamber of Deputies, on the approval of which the Government has posed the question of trust: [[Senators present 245 Senators voting 240 Majority 121 Favorable 141 Contrari 97 Absent 2]] The Senate approves. All amendments and agendas relating to the text of Decree-Law No 14 are therefore excluded. I wish everyone a good Easter.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-04-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-807.ana.u130	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-04-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-807.ana.u131	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-04-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-807.ana.u132	PUGLIA (M5S). Mr President, with Circular No 9 of 2017, the Ministry of the Interior made a communication, referring in particular to the prefectures, in the mores of the pronunciation of the central office for the referendum to the Court of Cassation, and has therefore provided instructions. Mr President, I believe that this Government - and fortunately I am not the only one who believes this - is really working with a disarming pressoquism, first of all with regard to the legislation relating to vouchers because we know very well - and we also said so not only in the Commission but also in this House - that the dangerous opening they were doing and which they wanted to do was going to undermine the rights of many people, but above all the real institute of accessory work, which may be there. So we had already feared that many employers could replace subordinate employment with these vouchers. Having said that, Mr President, it is clear to us that money has already been spent on the publication of circulars, on the printing of posters, that already so much staff is working overtime to prepare for the proper functioning of the votes that will be held during the referendum. I would therefore ask the Presidency - and perhaps we will also ask a question to this effect - whether public money has been spent on the fact that it was already known that these regulations had to be repealed. If public money has been spent, we also want to know who is responsible for this negligence, because employee overtime, poster printing, verification, sending and reading circulars are all items that have a cost. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-04-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-807.ana.u133	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-04-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-807.ana.u134	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-04-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-807.ana.u135	BLUNDO (M5S). Mr President, in relation to what I said at the 643rd session of the Senate of the Republic on 22 June 2016, when I requested a reply from the Government to Question 4-04661 of 8 October 2015, I believe it is necessary to make the following clarifications in the same form. I never had any malign intent towards Dr. Cesare Patrone, who was the head of the State Forestry Corps at the time. In making statements in this House, I was misled by a defamatory media campaign that reported unfaithfully about its involvement in a judicial affair. These reports, coming from seemingly reliable sources, in particular that of the Autonomous Union of Forest Environmental Police, also published on its website, and solicitations from the same environment, made me, in good faith, consider the news to be truthful. Only later did I learn that these news reports had been spread in an absolutely contrasting form with reality and, consequently, I feel it is necessary to express my regret for what happened and loyally acknowledge Dr. Cesare Patrone that his behavior has been unduly distorted. In fact, I had the opportunity to personally know Dr Patrone and to appreciate the feeling of loyalty and respect he has towards the institutions.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-04-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-807.ana.u136	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-04-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-807.ana.u137	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-04-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-807.ana.u138	WOMAN (M5S). Mr President, this is yet another story of urban degradation, and it happens in Lizzanello, in the province of Lecce. I refer, in particular, to the sweeping services of urban road networks and public areas carried out by Monteco Srl, a company that, by appealing to a clause of the related contract, has started a very long dispute with the Municipality of Lizzanello and has obtained an adjustment of the amounts for the years 2006-2010 related to the waste service, object of the dispute. But it is not over here, because Monteco has always thought well to ask the administration of Lizzanello also the sums related to the years 2010-2014 and in all this the Municipality of Lizzanello what does it do? Instead of challenging this request, trying to defend itself, he puts himself on top and opts for a bonaria transaction, which can also be good for us because maybe it is a procedure that could avoid an increase in spending that would fall as always on the shoulders of the citizens, but it is not so, because in the end the citizens themselves find themselves paying at Monteco as much as 2.1 million euros, so they have not solved anything. In all this, we wonder how a municipality in pre-dissement can propose and accept such an agreement. These are choices, unfortunately, which will pay dear citizens to the sound of bills, which of course will accumulate to the previous ones. The TARI bills, from 2017 to 2020, will suffer estimated increases of 440,000 euros per year, covered financially by the TARI. We want to be clear and we have now sent a request for access to documents, to try to understand what contracts have been concluded so far with Monteco Srl, what the conditions have been and what citizens will be able to incur. We do not stop, therefore, and we expect the mayor Pedone to accept our request.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-04-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-807.ana.u139	The motions, questions and questions received by the Presidency will be published in Annex B to today's report.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-04-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-807.ana.u140	The Senate will meet again in two public sessions on Wednesday 19 April, the first at 9.30 a.m. and the second at 4.30 p.m., with the following agenda: (See agenda) The sitting was closed at 16.55 p.m.
