ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-795.ana.u1	The sitting is open (9.31 a.m.). The Minutes shall be read. Mr SIBILIA, secretary, read the Minutes of the afternoon sitting of the previous day.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-795.ana.u2	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-795.ana.u3	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-795.ana.u4	IN MAY (CoR). Madam President, I would like to ask for the vote on the Minutes, subject to a quorum check. Verification of quorum
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-795.ana.u5	I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators, by electronic procedure. (The request is supported). I therefore call on the senators to make their presence known by electronic means. (Follows the quorum check.) The Senate has a quorum. Resumption of the debate on the Minutes I put the Minutes to the vote. It's approved.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-795.ana.u6	The list of senators on leave and absent on assignment received from the Senate, as well as further communications to the Assembly, will be published in Annex B to today's Minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-795.ana.u7	I would warn you that qualified votes can be taken in the course of today's sitting by electronic means. Therefore, from this moment on, the period of 20 minutes from the notice provided for in Article 119 (1) of the Regulation (9:36 a.m.).
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-795.ana.u8	The next item is the continuation of the debate on draft law No 2705. I would remind you that during yesterday's afternoon sitting the rapporteurs' replies and the debate on the matter of trust took place.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-795.ana.u9	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-795.ana.u10	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-795.ana.u11	Mr Bruni (CoR). Madam President, we come to the vote of confidence on the decree-law on the fight against immigration after a very troubled process and a rather complicated gestation in the committees of merit, 1a and 2a and, then, even with... [[Brusio]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-795.ana.u12	Colleagues, we've begun our work. If you could turn down the volume of the chatterbox, you would do a courtesy to the colleague who is intervening.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-795.ana.u13	Mr Bruni (CoR). As I said, there was first a very long and troubled gestation in the two committees of merit and then also in the passage to the House, where it was necessary to spend a week to arrive at the formulation of a maxi amendment that basically had to take account of the work done in the previous weeks in the Commissions. This means that despite the so much emphasis on the importance of this decree-law, we have come in short-sighted and scattered order, if it is true that only to collect some of the amendments, which have already been extensively examined in the Commission, have we lost even six days. It is clear that with this measure the Government Gentiloni Silveri, with a change of course (dedicated perhaps more from the necessity than from the conviction), has decided to address the problem of illegal immigration in a more decisive, stronger and firmer way than the recent past. It is equally clear that the Minister of the Interior has shown that he is well aware of the serious problems underlying the issues of the massive migratory flows from the African continent torn apart by wars, but above all scourged by perennial famines and increasingly widespread endemic poverty. A separate speech deserves the flows from the Middle East, which in a swinging way were perhaps present for two decades towards our peninsula because of political and religious tensions that, cyclically, cross a part of the countries in the Middle East. Italy - we know - is in Europe the country that absorbs the most desperate people arriving by sea. The use of the sea route increases in line with the closure of the borders of the other European States following the adoption of a particularly restrictive visa regime and entry to the countries of those zones. Let us think of what is happening on the Balkan front and of the famous case of Hungary with the networks and walls that hinder the influx of migrants into the magician country. The phenomenon corresponds to the spread among Italian citizens of growing fears and concerns, a dignified feeling that immigration no longer sees only a problem of security and public order but also an issue that, compared to the past, has extended to a collective dimension. I am referring in particular to the perception of immigrants as a danger to national identity, culture and religion. In short, it is seen as a concrete threat to our own cultural roots, as a result of the madness of Jihad first undertaken by Al Qaeda and then by Daesh against the "cruciated" West. The situation in Italy, therefore, is increasingly dangerous both for the objective difficulties of management by the State and for the repercussions on an increasingly irritated public opinion. If we look at the data, from 1 January to 10 February of this year came to Italy 9.446 migrants, compared to 6.030 of the same period last year. The task of Minister Minniti is to take care of the problem, noting first of all that uncontrolled immigration conceals serious risks to the security of citizens and to the loss of national identity. Concerns and inconveniences are increasingly expressed also by the left-wing administrators of our cities, finally admitting that those worries and inconveniences are not relegatable to irrational fears of the people, instrumentally manipulated by the center-right to endorse authoritarian policies. Until some time ago, we were trying to represent this. So today the government is launching a measure - in addition, within a wider security package also referring to urban centers - that very much resembles the one realized in the seasons of the center-right. The measure introduces some innovations by making some changes to the management of the increasingly frequent and substantial landings of migrants also through the forecast of the opening of new and renowned centers of identification and expulsion of irregular foreigners, today become Centers of permanence for return. In this case, however, the problem is not the name. Specifically, the main objective of the decree announced by Prime Minister Gentiloni Silveri is to speed up the process of recognising the right of asylum attributed to the knowledge, with a simplified rite, of specialised sections for immigration in the aforementioned facilitation of the mechanisms of the systems necessary for the return of migrants who are not entitled to asylum. These abstract initiatives are acceptable, but the gestation of the two Commissions and the transition to the Assembly have shown that some of these initiatives, however, represent what in the language of the mass media is called commercial intervention, aimed more at striking the belly of voters than at solving the heart of the problem. This is evident from the instrument itself used to legislate on a matter as complex as it is old, the decree-law. On the one hand it is true that there is a need to pose these problems more urgently, but on the other hand we see that the effects of this decree-law persist over time. What is the urgency, for example, of setting up specialised sections on the subject, providing that they will begin to operate only six months after the entry into force of the decree-law in question? This shows that there are quite conflicting issues. How can we then think that the training of these hyperspecialized judges and their material and professional resources are cost-effective? Here's another question, finding financial envelopes to make this decree-law work. It is LaPalissian that the system, as it is designed, on the one hand will not allow the disposal of the dispute of competence of the sections specialized in the short time foreseen and on the other it will weigh on the remaining civil litigation, crushed for the umpteenth time by an illusory reform at zero cost. Moreover, only through the amendments of the various groups - including our own, not by chance made precisely by the Government, which introduced the hearing of the party at the request of the party concerned - has the production of a rule which, in the name of speed, has been avoided, which would have raised serious doubts of legitimacy in relation to the principles of the contradictory and the publicity of the judgment, laid down in Article 6 of the European Convention for the Protection of Human Rights. That breach would have been perpetrated through the tendential exclusion of the contract between the applicant and the court for the entire period of the judgment. The competence of the Chambers must also be highlighted by the continuing irrational fragmentation of jurisdiction between different judges (ordinary, administrative and peace). In the long run between the Commission and Parliament, some of these shortcomings have also been dealt with: I am thinking of an amendment proposed by our Group, which has extended the issues relating to Italian citizenship to the competence of the specialized sections. In conclusion, this decree poses problems and seeks to find solutions, but certainly this is not the answer that will allow us to stem those numbers, which cannot be arginated with such a measure. The issue of immigration, after more than twenty years that we are dealing with this subject - new until the end of the 1980s - has shown us that the best solutions are not found by guarding our coast or trying to act in the centers of stay; the decisive moment instead is the agreements that can be concluded with the other States. I am thinking of the visit of the Libyan Premier a few days ago, who showed that we must go in that direction, which has also been followed by other governments in the past. The Albanian question, in fact, was resolved this way and the same was done at the time of Gaddafi, beyond the comments of color and criticism addressed to the Premier of the center-right at that time: this shows that they could have obtained results finding solutions in Africa, especially on the northern coast and not guarding our seas, because the path is much more complicated and the solutions do not arrive, despite the decree-laws. [[Applause from the CoR Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-795.ana.u14	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-795.ana.u15	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-795.ana.u16	Arrigoni (LN-Aut). Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, Minister, in dealing with the complex problem of irregular immigration in a situation of growing emergency, there is a fundamental problem. In this Parliament, there is a large majority of political forces - the Democratic Party, the New Right Centre, the Italian Left and the 5 Star Movement - permeated by goodness and acceptance at all costs. It is serious to call into question a firm point: the international right to asylum, established by the United Nations Convention on the Status of Refugees adopted in Geneva in 1951, which recognizes international protection exclusively for those who flee war or are persecuted for various reasons. Well, instead of canceling - as we should have done - humanitarian protection, which is only present in our country, many in this House would like to grant protection even to economic and climate migrants. My colleague Cociancich of the Democratic Party is one of those who said that he wants to include and not reject the irregulars also to remedy the dramatic birthday of our country: a suicide theory totally to be rejected. On the other hand, Italian families are supported in making children. Cociancich then quotes Article 10 of our Constitution, claiming that all those who, at home, are prevented from democratic freedoms, have the right to asylum in Italy, but this is incorrect, since it does not say in the first place that the constitutional dictation on the right of asylum has not been implemented, because the organic law is still lacking, and, secondly, that the recognition of the refugee has entered into our own system with the accession to the Geneva Convention. With numbers in hand, in general discussion, I tried to describe the phenomenon in Italy. They are pitiless numbers: too many entrances, too many deaths in the Mediterranean, so many requests for asylum. It is already 33,000 to 17 March, with waiting lists of the outcome that stretch and many appeals. In the failed reception system the presences grow exponentially and there are too many. Eighty per cent of the seats occupied are provided by temporary structures: houses, condominiums and private, hotels managed by business cooperatives and failed hoteliers, often identified by prefects overtaking the mayors, with expenses incurred for the emergency climbed in 2016 to 4 billion, greater than that of the corrective labour, with an EU contribution of only 112 million, less than 3%: other than costs of the reception that the Italians do not pay. Europe not only gives us the problem, but it gives us crumbs: it is madness. Illegal immigrants entering the country do not ask for asylum: they disappear, we do not know where they are and what they do. Only 20% of the two thirds who, on the other hand, ask for protection and we assist for two, three or even four years obtain international protection: the majority of those who seek asylum and who are assisted with food, accommodation, cultural mediator, wi-fi, tablets, are economic migrants, therefore irregular and therefore illegal. Reflections. His decree-law, Minister, is a timid change of pace compared to the disastrous three-year Renzi-Alfano. Lately, but we take note of the very long periods of examination of asylum applications and appeals. They hire 250 officials for the commissions, wanted by the League to speed up the talks. In the judicial process, the specialised sections for asylum are replaced and the appeal is removed and, after closing them, the CIEs are reopened, even if under another name, the detention centres for return; this measure, introduced more to respond to the EU censures of the Council of Europe on the weaknesses of the Italian system than the detention of irregulars waiting for return. But this is not enough, because with the few resources allocated (8 million for this year, 26 in the next year) and with the same number of magistrates, it is likely that the processes of evaluation of the questions will not be speeded up. In this regard, we have once again reasoned by applying Article 81 of the Constitution to contain expenditure and then with this mismanagement of immigration we have forgotten that the cost of immigrants increases from year to year by about 600, 700, 800 million: that is the truth. But the decree is not enough, especially because in the Commission it has been watered down and emptied. Too much has been done to strengthen the guarantees and protection of immigrants. Amendments have been accepted, as Mr Buccarella of the 5 Star Movement said, aimed at reaffirming principles of legal civilisation. The members of Grillo would have liked even more guarantees for immigrants, such as talks in committee with two interviewers and even with the presence of the defender; such as the repeal of the crime of illegality, their old battlehorse. Unbelievable, but you grills opposed our amendment, approved and wanted by the mayors, which provides for automatic and immediate cancellation from the municipal registry of an asylum seeker impossible from the reception center. No, we're not. The League is for a different immigration policy that we will implement when we go to the Government, based on the rigour, legality and deterrent that discourages departures and, consequently, also deaths at sea. We need to reduce the attraction factors in our country, the so-called pull factor. Also Frontex, with its annual report, Risk Analysis 2017, pointing the finger against the NGOs that are causing so much clamor, affirms that the operations H24 of search and rescue at sea carried out from the 13 ships to the limit of the Libyan coasts act as pull factor, encouraging the migrants to undertake the crossing of the Mediterranean Sea, where many lose their lives on board inadequate boats. The North League has tried to improve the text by tabling several amendments and agendas, which have mostly been rejected. I am thinking, for example, of the amendment on the elimination of humanitarian protection, which is not provided for in the Geneva Convention, and the amendment on the introduction of more border controls. We have cholabrodian land borders, as demonstrated by the more than 10,000 Pakistanis who entered Austria and Slovenia last year and then applied for asylum. These irregular entrances must be blocked with effective controls at the borders of France, Switzerland, Austria and Slovenia, countries all belonging to the Schengen area, demanding the application of the Dublin Regulation on the principle of the first port country and, therefore, operating the so-called active re-entrys. I am also thinking of the other amendments on detention centres, since the capacity which you, Minister, have envisaged is far from sufficient to hold back the huge number of irregulars waiting to be expelled or rejected. The detention time is also insufficient, as they had to be in line with the 2008 Return Directive. The rejection of our amendments confirms the will of the majority and Government to frustrate the expulsion procedures and allow the irregulars to escape the return, which must be increased instead. Those carried out are in fact too few. Over the last three years, the average number of projects implemented has been between 7,000 and 8,000. Too many do not comply with the quaestor's order. Bilateral agreements are therefore needed with third countries of origin and, above all, the return fund needs to be given more resources. Again, with the rejection of one of our agendas, you have unleashed the real intentions of the government. Serious agreements are also needed to block the flow of so-called refugees from Libya - a country of transit and not of departure - which now accounts for 85% of the entry into Europe after the closure of the Balkan route. It is enough to passively suffer the effects of the agreement between the European Union and Turkey, financed with EUR 6 billion (our own money), which has stopped flows mainly towards smart Germany. Let's be serious. The one I signed recently in Rome with Serraj is worth a little more than zero. This is demonstrated by the landings, which increased by more than 50% in 2016, and which will make 2017 even more black. Needless to make arrangements with Serraj, head of a government not recognized by the Parliament of Tobruk. Much more than him, General Haftar controls the country. If one of the four objectives for the next ten years signed last Saturday in Rome by the 27 countries concerned is a secure Europe, with an effective, responsible and sustainable migration policy, then Gentiloni Silveri insists that the European Union makes available to Libya resources comparable to those granted to Turkey, so that action is taken to block illegal migration flows to Europe. After the attack in London, you, Minister Minniti, talking in general about Islamic terrorism, said that there is a connection not with migrants, but with non-integration. But, Minister, with the regular migrants who want to impose their cultures that differ from our values carved in the Constitution, what integration can there be? With the hundreds of thousands of irregular migrants, that is illegal, present in our country (you want because they have not asked for asylum, you want because they have been rejected the application for protection and have not been returned) what integration there can be? This majority and this government do not pursue legality! You have certified this by rejecting one of our agendas which called on the Commission to step up the tracing of irregulars and you have confirmed this by approving a crazy agenda of Senator De Petris which provides for the reduction of the use of removal of migrants. For all these reasons, thanking the rapporteurs Cucca and Mancuso, the Group of the North League will vote against the confidence and against the measure! [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-795.ana.u17	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-795.ana.u18	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-795.ana.u19	GIOVANARDI (GAL (GS, PPI, M, Id, E-E, MPL, RI)). Madam President, I would like to take advantage of the presence of Minister Minniti - whom I thank - in order to carry out some calm reflections that derive from having participated in all the phases of this affair: first with Napolitano when he was Minister of the Interior, then with the various successive Governments, until the adoption of the Bossi-Fini law. In this respect, in order to clarify and give clarity to the dialogue, I would like to point out that that law led to the regularization of 700,000 immigrants; therefore, when the Left sometimes accuses the Centre-Right of having had a repressive approach, I remember that the greatest regularization of immigrants who had a job (colf, caregivers and workers), but in black, which led in a few months to guarantee the payment of arrears, the putting in order and to satisfy a social need of families and businesses, made it a center-right government. Then, from that point of view, nothing has been done, I imagine for ideological preventions, such as those, Minister, which I found in the Commission. I was very surprised by the rejection of two agendas that I signed, one of which referred to news that the newspapers are full of: if it is true that there are NGOs that work in cooperation with human traffickers and are in contact with them, once this has been established, the Italian Government must break relations with these organisations and not give more funding. It seemed to me to be the discovery of hot water, but the Ministry of Foreign Affairs gave an opinion against it and Parliament rejected this proposal. The other agenda simply asked for further details on the following subject: is it really compulsory that all people gathered at sea should come to Italy and not to Malta or to a French port or other countries? It was also rejected on the recommendation of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. I do not know what the Ministry of the Interior thought, but it seemed to me to be two intelligent solutions that Parliament proposed to the Government. Now I see Mr Cociancich and it is clear, Minister, that if we start from the principle of the colleague for whom everyone comes to Italy has exactly the same rights as Italians, like the 60 million Italians who in the past went abroad, it is clear that we will never solve the problem, meanwhile because it is not true that the 60 million Italians who went abroad did so without being invited in some way, called, in order, because if one appeared in the United States as a clandestine they sent him home quickly; and we do not talk about Switzerland, or Australia. There has been a centuries-old process that has allowed non-wild immigration to those countries that also, like the United States, had immense territories. I remember, moreover, that even today the United States has special rules and if a person is not born in that country he cannot become President, even if he has lived there since he was six months old until he was sixty years old. Therefore, each country raises the question of whether those who come from another country have the same rights as their own citizens. Then I agree perfectly that when he becomes an Italian citizen he will have the same rights as the Italians. I would like to come to the crux of the matter. With the Napolitano law something had been done in my opinion intelligent, that is, the answer of the order had graduated to what was at the time the problem of Albanians. It was a different immigration, it was a different historical phase, but I remember that Minister Scotti, implementing the refusal, one day picked up on a ship, some thousands of Albanians who had been taken to various camps, and brought them back to Albania. This is called rejection; it was a choreographic initiative to show that the State did something, but it used that instrument that is still under discussion today. I have always opposed the crime of illegal immigration both as Minister and as Undersecretary, because - I say this to friends of the North League - it only serves to aggravate the problem of immigration. In fact, if I have hundreds of thousands of immigrants and all those who land must be tried, with all the guarantees that there are in Italy (first, second and third degree), so they cannot be sent away from Italy as long as there is the trial and everything results in a fine (in the end this happens), I would like to understand what a mechanism of this kind is needed, since I do not think there is a person who has ever paid the fine. What, then, is the problem? We had said: first the refusal or the expulsion because to those who come to Italy, irregular or illegal - let's call it as you want - that therefore is not in compliance with our laws, simply, they are told to return to their own home. Then, if that person violates a legitimate order from our public administration, our state, and comes back for the second time, then you get the penalty triggered because you say: Dear Lord, I warned you: you are irregular, go home; you have not fulfilled, so I condemn you. After that, Minister, if the subject returns more than once, there will be a time when the order defends itself and for the relapses that are in Italy irregular or illegal sooner or later will also come a sanction of prison type. There must be this progression. On the other hand, someone still disputes the CIEs, the places where immigrants are kept because - it is said - they had to be identified first in prison, but because in prison they did not identify them and they are people who delinquote, who traffic with drugs, who do robberies, pickpockets, some beautiful soul should explain to me if we should perhaps run every policeman or policeman, inside our cities, behind these people who delinquency or, since they are the ones who do not decline their generalities, they are the ones who are violating our law, they must be held back waiting to expel them. Of course, I understand the problem too, Minister: to expel them where? We always find ourselves faced with the same question: Tunisians do not want them, Moroccans do not want them, Algerians do not want them; no one recognizes their citizenship. However, this cannot make us give up because, from justification to justification, we should come to the conclusion that in fact those 100 million Africans - let us add the Chinese and others - who want to come to Italy should be able to do so. Well, thinking as Mr Cociancich - I am not mad at you, my colleague, but I want to highlight the consequences of certain arguments - we would have Italy flooded with millions and millions of people; which would lead to despair, xenophobia, racism and conflict, especially in the popular classes, because it would certainly create an unviable situation for everyone. I say this also for those two, three million non-EU people who have been in Italy for twenty years now, who work in our country, whose children are Italian and who are desperate for the competition of these people who arrive who are making them lose their jobs. We must consider the drama of these Italians, whose children were born here, as they are the first to suffer the competition of tens of thousands of people who every month enter our country and cost us four billion euros, inevitably increasing everywhere - I speak for my Modena - the robberies, the muggings. After all, how do they eat, how do they survive if they don't have a job and a family to support? Who is responsible for public order will clearly have to pose these problems, or not? I think Minister Minniti put them down. I have always been in favour of the CIE and say: Bravo, you did well to fight local ideologies and egoisms and to give an instrument to the administration to empty the sea in which the criminal labor also puts itself at the service of the mafia and the 'ndrangheta'. Do we always fill our mouths with the problem of organised crime but, in your opinion, do not organised crime exploit this labour of despair to increase its trafficking? Evidently he exploits it because it is subordinate and sometimes he can do nothing else, in those Regions, but settle for those who allow him to survive. Minister, once again we have been faced with inexplicably rejected agendas. Those people know what is going on and if they go to see the parliamentary acts they will be surprised that the Italian Parliament has not opposed that our Government continues to fund NGOs which, by violating our law, even have contacts with traffickers. That is the result of that vote. Or the Italian Parliament wants everyone, when they are rescued, not to be taken to Malta or to the nearest port and insists that they be taken to Italy. Who said that, where is it written? If a person is picked up by a French or Maltese ship or a ship flying the flag of I don't know which country and the nearest port is Malta or the ship is flying the flag of France, why should people who have not been taken into the Sicilian Channel but into Libyan international waters be taken to a Sicilian port and not to Marseilles? PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Conclude, please. GIOVANARDI (GAL (GS, PPI, M, Id, E-E, MPL, RI)). But is France part of Europe or not? Is Slovenia part of Europe or not? Is Spain part of Europe or not? I would conclude my reasoning with the Minister, if the colleague who is entertaining him would allow it. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator Capacchione, don't distract the Minister. GIOVANARDI (GAL (GS, PPI, M, Id, E-E, MPL, RI)). My colleague, I would like to conclude the speech with the Minister, since I am addressing him. We are in Parliament, this is an opportunity for dialogue on certain problems which seem serious and which I am putting to him and I would like the Minister to tell me in his reply whether there has been a misunderstanding between the Ministries of the Interior and Foreign Affairs; Maybe they didn't understand each other, but they seem to me to be focal issues: where to bring the ships, where the NGOs collect them, if to bring them here... (Senator Puppato approaches the benches of the Government). I understand you have to be patient. I'm finishing, partner. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Please do not disturb the Minister who is listening to the debate, Senator Puppato. GIOVANARDI (GAL (GS, PPI, M, Id, E-E, MPL, RI)). I hope that in his reply he will give me this answer, but inevitably, having put your trust, our vote can only be against, but giving the Minister a qualitative leap in dealing with this problem with realism.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-795.ana.u20	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-795.ana.u21	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-795.ana.u22	LO MORO (Art. 1-MDP). Madam President, Minister Minniti, the decree-law in the process of conversion is a concrete attempt to address critical issues that seriously endanger the effectiveness of our responses to the issue of immigration. It does so with structural measures and this is already acceptable, because it would be wrong to continue to consider the issue of immigration as an emerging issue and, in particular, the problems related to the growing influx into Italy of immigrants fleeing from wars, violence or, at best, poverty and misery. It would mean ignoring that we are faced with a phenomenon of epochal scope which requires structural and long-term responses. The Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats welcomes this effort and will vote for confidence, partly because it would not have been hesitant to approve the text dismissed by the Joint Committees on Constitutional Affairs and Justice. I will focus on some of the issues dealt with by the decree-law and the bill of conversion: the need to speed up international protection procedures and to speed up procedures for identifying immigrants and to ensure adequate and widespread reception. These are the key points of the measure. These are urgent problems which require action that cannot be postponed and, above all, is effective. On the procedure of speeding up the responses in the matter of international protection, the decree intervenes, with Articles 1 to 6, strengthening the administrative procedures in front of the territorial commissions and previewing that the eventual judicial phase is entrusted to specialized sections that decide with decree not reclaimable. We (and the majority of Senators of the Constitutional Affairs and Justice Commissions) accepted the challenge of the Government and did not question the key points of the government's provision. We intervened, in particular, to ensure the possibility that video recording is avoided in the administrative phase in the presence of a reasoned application of the applicant (the request on which the Territorial Commission decides by non-appealable measure) and, in the judicial phase, in compliance with the uniqueness of the judgment of merit, provided for in the decree-law, in order to ensure the collegiality of the judge, the spread on the territory of the specialised sections, which will be established in the ordinary courts of each court of appeal, the provision of the hearing of the applicant in the presence of a reasoned request made in the application and assessed positively by the judge (by the judge who is responsible for the treatment of the proceedings at the essential hearing for the purposes of the decision). With the amendments voted in the Commission, therefore, the system has been maintained which the Government and, in particular, the Ministers of the Interior - which is here and which I welcome - and of justice have assumed the responsibility of proposing to the evaluation of Parliament; but it has made everything more acceptable from our point of view and above all more compatible with the general principles and with the system of guarantees that qualifies our system. Articles 17 and 19 laid the foundations for speeding up the procedures for identifying foreign nationals who were tracked in the position of irregularities in the national territory or who were rescued during rescue operations at sea and strengthened the reception system, with the spread, throughout the national territory, of detention centres for returnees, the former identification and expulsion centres (CIEs), of which, in addition to the designation, the reference legislation and, above all, the management should be amended. There are so many other points in the decree-law that could be valued. Of all people, for example, I would like to refer to the rule that applicants for international protection should be involved in activities of social benefit. This is the way to give answers. The measure is very analytical on some subjects, and this applies in particular to the discipline relating to sections, their competences and related procedures, and it could only be so since there are absolutely innovative rules, but it leaves unresolved some problems that are also annoying but also urgent to deal with. On these points, on which it was particularly difficult to intervene in an amendment in the context of the conversion of a decree-law, we presented an agenda, approved in the Commission, precisely because it was clear, during the discussion and approval of a draft law on such sensitive matters, that the Government (and Parliament as far as its competence is concerned) must feel committed to regulating the regular flows, because it is not possible to maintain a situation that does not allow it to arrive in Italy if not irregularly, to a revisitation of the discipline of hot spots (no longer can we refer to a law of 1995, the so-called Puglia law) and to an effective transformation of the former CIE (the name change is not enough), of which several parties have been calling for closure for a long time. We therefore vote for confidence in a complex measure of which we have shared the objectives, with the hope that we will soon be able to intervene on the unsolved aspects, starting with the repeal of the crime of clandestineness on which there is a delay difficult to understand and to justify. Madam President, Minister, we had tabled a number of amendments which were declared inadmissible and what was reported yesterday by the Presidency does justice to all this because our amendments, and not just those of the Group I represent in an explanation of vote, could not be unrelated to this matter. We will vote for confidence knowing that this vote also serves to strengthen the credibility of the Government, which is also engaged on this issue on different fronts from that of national legislation. In order to cope with such an influx of immigrants heading to our coasts, also because they find the other roads blocked, we need more Europe, more diplomacy and more solidarity. And we know that Italy is doing and will do its part well. We also know that values such as altruism and solidarity, on which we have already measured and distinguished ourselves, need to be accompanied by greater effectiveness. The decree-law goes in this direction. One more reason to express itself positively. We will therefore vote for the confidence and the yes of the Article 1 Group, democratic and progressive movement, will be a yes to the maxi amendment that collects the contributions of the Joint Committees on Constitutional Affairs and Justice, but also a vote that marks a path and says no to the walls and indifference and yes to respect, solidarity and acceptance. [[Applause from the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and ……]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-795.ana.u23	On behalf of the Assembly, I greet the teachers and students of the Liceo Scientifico e delle Scienze Humani (High School of Cossathes and Strona Valley) in Cossato, in the province of Biella, who are attending our work. Welcome to the Senate. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-795.ana.u24	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-795.ana.u25	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-795.ana.u26	MAZZONI (ALA-SCLP). Madam President, the decree-law before us is clearly intended to bring out from the emerging approach a structural phenomenon such as immigration in order to distribute more homogeneously and less invasively migrants arriving on national territory. In 2016 alone the landings from the Mediterranean route were more than 181,000 and the data of the first months of 2017 indicate a continuous trend to the increase. So, something had to be done, and the new Minister of the Interior has shown a much more incisive approach to the problem than previous governments. This is in the absence of real support from the European Union, which, by shielding itself from the Dublin Regulation, has in fact disregarded all the commitments of relocations made at the many unnecessary summits that have led only to an endless series of directives which were subsequently punitive for the first port states such as Italy and Greece. The ratio of this decree-law therefore goes in the desired direction by a large part of the public, in the sense of welcoming those who are entitled to it, accelerating the decision-making process on asylum applications and making more sure the times of repatriation for migrants who are not entitled to international protection. In the three-year period 2014 - 2016 the average time for the decisions of the territorial commissions, which in the meantime have increased, has been two hundred and sixty days of waiting, much higher than in the other European States. A very long period of time, to which must be added that determined by appeals, in the presence of an increase in asylum applications by more than 60%. In 2016, finally, the migrants hosted in the different types of our reception centers were about 176,000, 70 percent more than in 2015. This decree therefore arrives in a very complex situation, which has found a partial improvement thanks to the agreement with the ANCI that provides hospitality to three migrants every 1,000 inhabitants and according to which the municipalities that adhere to the SPRAR system enjoy the so-called safeguard clause so that the prefects can no longer concentrate hundreds of migrants in very small territories. Something is therefore being done, and we acknowledge to Minister Minniti the commitment he is putting into managing a framework that has very important social, integration and security implications. But this measure too, unfortunately, risks falling into the meshes of unconstitutionality, as many experts in the Commission have pointed out. We start from the sections: there has been a general appreciation for the establishment of these sections, a choice aimed at strengthening the specialisation and skills of those who are called upon to evaluate applications for international protection. But the intention to ensure a single and specialized jurisdiction in charge of the ordinary judiciary appears irrationally contradicted by the lack of concentration in the new judge of other competences concerning the same matters that today remain scattered between the judge of peace, administrative judge and ordinary judge. We already have special sections in our courts: those of companies, for example, but they are sections established by subject matter. Here, instead, we are faced with specialised sections for a category of persons, so-called irregular migrants, for whom it is already foreseen, and only for them, administrative detention. The point is, in short, that the efficiency of the system cannot go to the detriment of the guarantees of a category of persons, asylum seekers, who enjoy in accordance with Article 10 of the Constitution a full subjective right, because the right of asylum is considered as an inalienable right of the human person. The new ritual for judicial appeals in the field of international protection also appears to be lacking in terms of constitutional legitimacy. The prediction of a single degree of merit in which the hearing is only a possibility and has a chamber form, for many constitutionalists violates the principle of contradictory and publicity of the trial, guaranteed by Article 111 of the Constitution. The elimination of the appeal certainly does not violate the Constitution, but it certainly represents an anomaly in the Italian law, in which the guarantee of the double degree of merit is also provided for civil disputes of far less value than the ascertainment of whether or not there exists at the head of the foreigner a founded risk of persecution in case of return to his country. The elimination of the appeal, moreover, will end up burdening heavily on the burdens of the Court of Cassation. Turning to another point, the use of video recording for the hearing of the asylum seeker, potentially replacing the hearing of the foreigner by the judge, does not comply with the objective indicated by the European Union legislator, whose right enhances the full and direct assessment of the judge of all the sources of evidence for which direct and personal listening of the applicant would always be essential, since his statements are often the only elements on which the application is based. In this regard - this is a point on which to reflect from a practical point of view - the rule according to which the hearing before the judge will instead be due if, in the appeal to the court, the party invokes elements not deducted in the course of the administrative procedure of the first instance, even risks encouraging instrumental defensive tactics, aimed at obtaining the fixing of the hearing: while today the change of version from the administrative phase to the judicial one is reasonably considered an element of less reliability of the story of persecution, in the future this evaluation will not be possible, because justified by the exercise of a defensive faculty provided for by law. Thus the foreigner will have an interest in lying in the appeal to the court in order to obtain to be heard by the judge about what he told the commission. The danger, in short, is to lengthen the times instead of shortening them. Madam President, I would like to make two final comments on the opportunities lost in the conversion of this decree into law: the permanent centres for repatriation have changed their name from the CIEs, but in fact they are the continuation of forced returns in recent years, the number of which has been almost independent of both the length of detention and the number of places available. In this sense it is wrong to choose not to provide any discipline of these centres defined points of crisis, for which operation refers to normative texts (such as the so-called law Puglia of 1995) which do not contain any clarification on the legal nature of these places and the functions that take place there, in violation of the reserve of law in the matter of foreigners and the absolute reserve of law in the matter of measures restrictive of personal freedom. Due to the limited regulation of their function, these crisis points risk introducing an element of inconsistency in the complex architecture of the Italian reception system. Last critical point, already pointed out by those who preceded me, is the decision not to include in the decree-law the repeal of illegal entry and residence offences, punished as mere infringements, which have unnecessarily increased the number of criminal proceedings, moreover almost never reached the conclusion without obtaining any deterrence of irregular immigration, which indeed has increased. The repeal would have transposed what already provided for the delegation law on decriminalization and welcomed a wish expressed several times before the Chambers by the Minister of Justice himself. But inexplicably the President of the Commission has declared these amendments inadmissible or further to the text. For all these reasons, our vote will be against.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-795.ana.u27	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-795.ana.u28	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-795.ana.u29	DE PETRIS (Misto-SI-SEL). Madam President, the Senators of the Italian Left will vote against confidence and this decree-law, in line with the battles they have waged in the Commission and with the negative judgment expressed on the measure, on its content and on its approach; this is also in line with the values we profess, not in chatter. In fact, it is always very convenient and hypocritical to talk about solidarity and acceptance and then to do operations that have nothing to do with these values. Our vote is a clear and clear vote. It is easy to understand why we are going to vote no, and then I am going to say no even more about it, but we have some difficulties in understanding some of them so that they are given. Above all because, having listened to some explanations of vote, we realize that they come from those who in recent weeks have spoken of the promotion of the international day of reception and of demonstrations in this sense, and who continue hypocritically to speak of solidarity. The problem is very serious. I call all of you to the fact that there can be no sense of responsibility for trust when, in fact, an operation like this is being carried out. Why are we against the decree-law, Minister? I take advantage, among other things, of his presence, which I requested yesterday, not only for this measure but also for him to report on the serious events that took place yesterday in Melendugno, on the very violent charges against some citizens who were only defending their own land, demonstrating their dissent towards an absurd work. We are opposed to the substance, because you have attempted an operation, in conjunction with the other measure, that on urban security, aimed almost to caress the fur of the beast: in the sense that there is a sort of public opinion in this country (fortunately, not by the majority, but still by the minority) that has fear and aversion to immigration and perceives an idea of urban insecurity. And these decree-laws attempt a reassuring operation to show that you have a firm fist. In fact, both measures, in particular the immigration decree-law, are purely emergent and secure. I believe, Minister, that this is once again an emergency measure for a very simple reason; you have given up on doing what was necessary, that is, a comprehensive and organic review of the strategies for governing migration flows and the revision of the rules of the Single Text on immigration. I would like to remind you that we still have the so-called Bossi-Fini Act. In our view, not making this operation really means giving up the government of the phenomenon itself. In fact, we believe that not to review the rules deeply prevents an orderly programme of regularization and controlled integration of migrants. You did not want to take note of the failure of all the gestures made to date and continue with the same logic, the logic of the decree-law. A decree that thinks that it can shorten the times perhaps for the recognition of international protection, but that in reality has the aim - not even so hidden - to decrease the number of recognitions of international protection in order to transform the applicants into simple economic migrants and then move to the phase of expulsion. In doing so, however, you produce two results which are not only unacceptable from our point of view, but on which I believe the Constitutional Court will also intervene heavily. You, in fact, always with this logic of emergency, produce a kind of special right. In fact, although the increase in the number of special sections in committee is positive, there is still a disorder and fragmentation of the subject, so we will have special sections not specialized on the subject, but on the subject. This is the first vulnus that has not been eliminated in any way from the work done in the Commission, which has made some improvements. As far as procedural guarantees are concerned, it is useless for us to turn around; those which are guaranteed by our Constitution to all subjects and to all persons are questioned. As far as contradictory matters are concerned, it is fortunate that the Commission has made a change so that the hearing, even if requested, may be there and will of course always decide on it by the judge, and as far as the possibilities have increased, it will always remain a possibility. It will not be the norm, it will not be the cognitive summary process and the rule of contradiction that presides over the appeal against the territorial commissions. This point is not trivial. All this is based on video recording, with everything that this entails and will involve. A degree of appeal is eliminated; it is said that in other European countries this is also produced. There, however, is another arrangement. You know better than I do, Minister, that in our system the double degree is foreseen for the vast majority of civil disputes and I remember that we are intervening here on vulnerable people, most of whom risk, among other things, their lives. We are intervening on very sensitive issues; they are persecuted political and religious, who run a very high risk for their freedom and for life itself. You say that we must be quick; it will not be done soon and the result will be to cause serious injury to the guarantee system; procedural guarantees that are recognised by all the parties in the Italian State. So you give up on the real question of how you govern this process. I ask you, in fact, how you enter this country regularly. We continue to use the category of illegal immigrants. But someone has to explain to me how to get into this country regularly. It is clear that in the end the only channel is protection, because you do not want to deal with the problem. The agreements will not be enough, of which we will also see the last fact with a piece of Libya, with all the consequences and risks it produces. The matter had to be dealt with seriously. We have allowed ourselves to table amendments and agendas. The fact that we do not really want to deal with the revision of the single entry text is reflected in the declaration of inadmissibility of the amendment for the repeal of the crime of clandestineness. We have all filled our mouths with words - that is why I do not understand the hypocrisy that reigns in this House - and then we have declared the amendment inadmissible and we continue to move forward with a decree-law that is of a securityist and emerging nature. The CIEs - all of which we have said, including your party, Minister - are not places where people's freedom is put at risk and they are horrible places, but they do not close, as all the Commissions have said: they change their name. They are called CPR and continues the very sensitive issue from the constitutional and arbitrary point of view of administrative detention. Madam President, you are under the illusion that we can take a step forward with this measure. This will not be the case and, on the other hand, our legal civilization and the values of solidarity and acceptance are once again put at risk. For all these reasons, we will be proud to vote against it. [[Applause from the Misso-SI-SEL Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-795.ana.u30	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-795.ana.u31	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-795.ana.u32	CRIMI (M5S). Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, a few days ago in the Capitol, as part of a robotics demonstration, I attended a performance by a group of young people from a Roman school who, combining robotics and theatre, have staged a narrative of man's history since prehistory. They reminded us that the most accredited theories indicate the first traces of human beings in the area between Ethiopia, Kenya and Tanzania. From those lands, in Africa, with migrations that have taken place over millions of years, the human being has moved all over the planet, even in Europe. The conclusion of the children, in their ingenuity and incontrovertible logic, was to wonder why, if those migrations have led to modern civilization, as it is today, we raise barriers and walls. We too join the logic of the kids wonder why. Today Italy and Europe are facing this phenomenon that is not new, but it is the natural shift of human beings from some lands to others, sometimes for climatic reasons, sometimes for economic reasons and today more than ever for reasons related to their own security, to escape from wars and persecutions. International law recognizes those who run from war and persecution to be welcomed and protected. And I don't think any of us have any doubts about that. No laws are needed to say that, if there is a person in the street who suffers or who is in difficulty, it must be helped. This is what Italy is facing today: brothers and sisters, human beings like us, who see their lives threatened and flee to other lands to save themselves, their families and their children. To these people we must guarantee the welcome and there is no need for any international standard to tell us. The economic conditions of our country today do not allow a general reception - this is a fact - for all those who come from other parts of the world. We do not hide it and there is no doubt about it either. This is because our country also suffers: behind the smokescreen of a country that self-celebrates as a world economic power, there are millions of poor. Let us not be ashamed to say so, let us call things by their name: poverty. Until structural measures are taken to lift the fate of this country, until we can guarantee that all Italians can live a dignified life, until a citizen's income is launched that truly allows us to say that no one must remain behind, until then we will not be able to guarantee the welcome to anyone who wants to come from other parts of the world in our country. It is for this reason that we are forced to limit the welcome to those brothers and sisters who flee from certain death. In order to guarantee the welcome that these brothers deserve, however, it is necessary to define clear rules to assess who is entitled to this reception and who is not. In order for the reception to be guaranteed - and in the best possible way - to those entitled to it, it is necessary that all those who have no right should be denied it. It's a painful choice, I want to say it, but it's necessary. If we cannot guarantee the welcome of all, we must confine ourselves to those for whom we cannot do without them. Knowing how to identify them among the hundreds of thousands of migrants and to know who needs them and who has less is a painful choice, I repeat, but necessary. Otherwise, the risk is that you will not be able to guarantee the minimum level of assistance and reception to anyone, at least until this country comes out of the darkness in which you have led it, without realizing it, as drivers of a blind locomotive that leads a train to a dead track. This decree-law, however, is not a solution, but yet another smokescreen, yet another weapon of mass distraction. In view of the increased demand for international protection, the response does not envisage setting up an efficient and effective selection and screening system, which can quickly assess who needs and who does not and can give the answers in terms of the reception they serve. The answer of this decree-law is wrong: it is the wrong answer to a real problem. It intervenes by limiting to the maximum the recourse to the judicial authority, assigning to the decision of the territorial commission the function almost of a final judgment, reducing the constitutional guarantees that should be guaranteed to every citizen present on the Italian territory, and not only. The degree of appeal against decisions refusing international protection shall be abolished. The judgment will be carried out by a judge, fortunately collegiate, as requested by us, but with a possible hearing. This decree-law, therefore, serves exclusively to deflate judicial litigation. A country that respects itself, faced with a problem of excessive judicial litigation, provides the answers of justice that serve, tools and men to deal with it; instead, as already done in the past, you decide to surrender the weapons, throw the sponge and reduce the possibility of access to justice. It is a drift that has already been taken in other types of interventions, in which, instead of giving the justice responses they serve, you only think about reducing access to justice, transforming it into a path to increasingly burdensome obstacles. You have set up the sections to deal with them by specialised sections on the subject, but in fact - it is useless for us to hide it - these are sections for applicants, for persons, based on the person rather than on the subject. Is this general evidence of a reduction in guarantees and the establishment of special courts? Then there are the CIEs, the centres of identification and expulsion, an all-Italian shame: real and proper no places, in which there are no forms of respect for human dignity; real lagers, where even the minimum conditions for prisoners have been guaranteed. Commissions of inquiry, judicial investigations, deaths and violence have not been enough to make you realize that it is a system that does not work. So what did you guys make up? Let's change his name, give him a paint job, and pretend they're something else. And so, from now on you call them permanent repatriation centers. First of all, as always, words do not follow the facts. We have heard, Minister, that they would have been one per Region, so 20 centers with 80 seats (1,600 total), his words: well, nowhere in the text of the decree-law - I assure you - I find this written; nowhere in the decree-law is there talk of a fair distribution on the national territory, which we had also asked with amendments, but only of the extension of the network of existing structures; nowhere is the closure of the current CIE. There is no point in hiding it, Minister: if we open these return centres, we must respond to those ICIs, those realities which have been submitted to parliamentary committees' inquiries and to judicial investigations, in order to put an end to this negative example of managing people's detention. Not one of the requests we had made was accepted. We had asked for these centres to be managed directly by the public administration and not by private individuals or, at most, if managed by private individuals, that these should not be the same persons who already manage other types of reception. We had asked for transparent management trust procedures to be guaranteed and for the identification of minimum characteristics necessary for respect for human dignity and not just a general reference to it. We had asked for certain protocols to be identified for the allocation to the various centres, which take into account the risks of coexistence of these entities. None of this has been accepted and everything has been left in the vague. Today we have one minister, tomorrow we may have another and everyone will be able to interpret the rules as he thinks best. Nothing is said about the return and how these will happen, but only the money is spent; nothing more absolute about the causes that lead thousands of migrants to escape from their lands to find refuge from us. Not a word is found in the decree and not a word in the whole debate, because perhaps it would mean admitting one's own mistakes and the responsibilities of those who say they want to export democracy and instead export war, death and suffering. It would mean admitting that, behind the façade of contributing to the development of the poorest countries, instead hides the unconditional exploitation of their resources that makes them even poorer. There is the silence of Europe in all this, the inertia of those who talk about the Union only when it comes to money, but nothing does to share even the emerging situations in which a country, like Italy, finds itself. If it really is to be Europe, then Italy must be treated as a European border and as such access for applicants for international protection must be addressed by the whole of the European Union and not just by Italy. The Dublin Regulation really needs to be exceeded and the obligation for the country of entry to manage the whole phase of the reception of asylum seekers needs to be revised, otherwise this is not a community. Europe must decide to sanction those countries that refuse to fulfil the obligations of mutual assistance and acceptance of the planned relocation quotas. [[Applause from the M5S Group and Senator Cervellini]] If it is not a community of peoples, then the European Union has no sense of existence. It's a fact. Finally, returning to Italy, who is comfortable with the continuous emergency of the migratory phenomenon and the reception? Definitely to unscrupulous subjects who speculate on the business of migrants and reception. But let us not forget the role of politics: the politics of the left that of the reception makes its flag and that of the right that of the defense of the borders makes its flag. The migrant emergency is used as a banner in battle to gather their electoral armies. But in front of this distorted use there are people who suffer, people who flee from wars and persecutions and ask only for a place to live. Living: All they ask is to live. [[Applause from the M5S Group and the Senators Cervellini and Molinari.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-795.ana.u33	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-795.ana.u34	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-795.ana.u35	ANITORI (AP-CpE). Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, first of all I would like to thank the Presidency for the opportunity it has given me to speak. The measure on which we are called to confirm the confidence of the Government assumes a fundamental value if it is framed in a broad reasoning and dating back time. Italy has been, for most of its history, a land of emigration, and many lands from which before fled from hunger today are among the most powerful locomotives of Italian and European development. However, the development of Italian legislation on immigration seems to have remained faithful to the first approach, that of Italy as a land of migrants. Until the mid-1980s, in fact, the entry of foreigners into Italy was regulated by laws dating back to the fascist period. This state of affairs was set out in clear antithesis with constitutional dictates, expressed by article 10, paragraph 2, which states that "The legal condition of the foreigner is governed by law in accordance with international norms and treaties." The first law of the Italian Republic in this matter was Law No. 943 of 1986, which addressed the issue of immigration, however only in relation to the subject of work, in an emerging and non-organic way. In order to have the first real organic law in the field of immigration, also dictated by emerging motivations, we will have to wait for 1990 and the Martelli law, which introduced social interventions towards immigrants for the first time in Italy, outlining a system of migrants' entry based on programming of entry flows through the provision of maximum quotas. For almost all the nineties it went on with the structure adopted by the Martelli law, until 1998, the year in which the law n. 40 of 1998, so-called Turco-Napolitano was passed: this law, the first in Italy concerning immigration and not approved in emergency situation, although far from perfection, was however shown as the most coherent and organic in the matter of immigration approved until then. Among the positive points that it is possible to write them there was the provision of delegation for the approval of the legislative decree that created the so-called Single Text on immigration, which reorganized the matter in all its components and which, despite the numerous changes that took place to modify it over the years, is still in force. The decree that we are called to convert into law today seeks to put some clarity in this whole system, with a view to greater rationality, effectiveness and speed of judicial proceedings. The macrothema of the massive migratory flows exploded in recent years involves, in various dimensions and for various reasons, almost all the countries of our world. Italy is at the centre of one of the major crossroads of these flows and must constantly update its model of reception and treatment of migrants on a functional level. This daily evolution serves to keep up with the times and give concrete answers both to the humanitarian demands of migrants and to those of peaceful and balanced coexistence of the society that receives them. In this process we must stand firm and be guided by certain principles, such as that set out in Article 10 (3) of our Constitution, which reads: The foreigner, who is prevented in his country from exercising the democratic freedoms guaranteed by the Italian Constitution, has the right to asylum in the territory of the Republic, in accordance with the conditions laid down by law. Therefore, all those who cannot benefit in their own country from the democratic freedoms guaranteed in ours have the right to seek asylum in Italy. This also prevails over all international conventions which, however, recognise a right of asylum, even if under more restrictive conditions. But our country and our constitution, which has been called the most beautiful in the world, guarantee this kind of right. On the other hand, the legislator must take into account that the reception system cannot ignore certain characteristics, such as the efficiency of bureaucratic passages, the social sustainability of inclusion, the safety (including perceived) of the population and the determination of the final destinations that migrants intend to reach, and the latter is a point that requires an urgent revision of the Dublin Regulation. The decree-law in question deals with many of the issues that have been mentioned so far. Provisions are laid down for speeding up proceedings on international protection, with the creation of specialised sections on migration, international protection and the free movement of citizens in the European Union. The examination in the meeting of Commissions allowed to extend the list of seats of these sections, bringing them to a number corresponding to that of the offices of appeal court in Italy, then to 26. The judges assigned to these sections will have to demonstrate that they possess, acquire and maintain special skills in the field of immigration, including through special courses organized by the High School of the judiciary, in collaboration with the European Asylum Support Office and the United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees. To anticipate an extremely high level of specialization for these magistrates, also guaranteeing their continuing training, responds to the need to have professionals prepared to face and solve the problems that in everyday life are presenting themselves in the relationship with migrants. In addition, I would remind you that disputes concerning the recognition of international protection, previously decided with a summary of cognition, will be dealt with by a chamber ritual to a written contradictory and at a possible hearing. However, special cases in which the judge must always assess when the hearing is to be held are safe. The examination in the referee has improved the original text also on the question of the refereeability to the Court of Cassation for the measures of the court, introducing measures that avoid a delay in the use of such protection, also in order to prevent a flood of the operation of the Court. Another very important objective of the legislative novelties is to promote the speed and certainty of the notification system and to facilitate the conduct of the talks, using video recording, also according to methods to protect the privacy of migrants, introduced during the examination in the Commissions. Compared to the other set of objectives I mentioned earlier, concerning the needs of security and peaceful social coexistence, I recall two rules. The first provides that those who have irregularly crossed the border or have been rescued at sea will be taken to specific points of crisis at the centres of first reception and that they will be subjected to fingerprinting and photosigning. The second rule requires the applicant for international protection pending the execution of a refusal order to be held in the centre where it is hosted when it is considered that the application has been lodged only in order to delay or prevent the execution of the refusal. At the same time, I would like to recall the absolutely virtuous arrangement that introduces prospects for the employment of migrants who, voluntarily, can contribute to initiatives of social benefit to the local communities that host them. Starting work and feeling part of a community are fundamental factors for the full respect of the human rights of migrants and, at the same time, are the deterrent to those situations of marginalization and exclusion at the basis of the social tensions we experience in the areas most affected by the migration phenomenon. The measure, on the other hand, strengthens the administrative bodies which examine applications for international protection and provides for the recruitment of officials with legal-pedagogical professionalism, social service and cultural mediator to support educational interventions and integration into work. I could cite many other positive provisions, such as the one that provides for a new short-term ritual hypothesis in the event of appeals by those who have been expelled for reasons of public order and national security and for reasons of prevention of terrorism; or the interconnection of ministerial databases and law enforcement agencies or the suspension of taxes for businesses and self-employed persons on the island of Lampedusa, a territory that has always been at the centre of migratory pressure. Finally, ladies and gentlemen, the measure responds urgently to issues related to the management of migration that have become increasingly complex in recent months. The rules introduced by the Government and perfected with the precious work of the Commissions gathered 1a and 2a, whose members I thank sincerely, represent effective and balanced solutions in ensuring effective coordination of the interventions to be organised with regard to the incoming migrants, in guaranteeing the protection and rights of the same and in offering to the citizens of the areas most exposed to the migratory phenomenon the testimony that the State is present and is at their side. For these reasons, I am voting in favour of the People's Alternative Group for this measure. [[Applause from the AP-CpE Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-795.ana.u36	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-795.ana.u37	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-795.ana.u38	CALIENDO (FI-PdL XVII). Madam President, Minister, Madam Undersecretary, the Forza Italia Group is shocked by this request for confidence. Mr Minister, we very much appreciated - and you know when I personally did so - your statements on immigration and we would have liked, as we did with the amendments, to help the Government so that there would be a measure that would have effective consequences for immigration. We are therefore a little shocked by this legislative text, which has some lights, but many shadows. We appreciated the fact that you introduced the identification and expulsion centers of the dimension in which they were built. You have determined in 250 the increase of the territorial commissions. We had given indications that there were 400, but the government's logic of expressing the opposite opinion forced you, yesterday afternoon, to correct the maxi amendment for trust. The opinion of the technical file has led you to introduce a correction for which those 250 must be considered as members of the committees. It was enough to accept the amendment of Forza Italia and you would not have made a bad figure. Secondly, I have very much believed in the will to speed up the time needed for the verification of those who actually have the right to asylum, of refugees. And we were immediately concerned to say that, if in every district of court of appeal we realize a section specialized, it is right that in each Province there is a territorial commission, so as to reduce its time, and we had proposed to increase that number from 250 to 400. At the same time, however, we must lead the fight on immigration on some fundamental points. It lacks in the measure under consideration - and I hope you, Minister, will take your hand - any clarification on legal entry into our country. We must correct the Bossi-Fini law: as you can remember, according to this legislation the foreign national who is already in our country must return to his country of origin. Something, then, doesn't work, so you have to think about it. Once we create a legal entry, however, we must not allow - as you rightly said - the reception of all economic migrants and have the necessary regulations to return to their countries. Where, then, is the provision really insane? With it we introduce a distonic legislation with respect to the existing legal order. We're talking about subjective rights. We are convinced that even foreigners, those who arrive, have subjective rights that must be respected, and to do this it was necessary to take account of the organization of our order. In all matters relating to the subjective rights of Italian citizens, even if an administrative committee recognizes or denies a particular right, that provision can be challenged - there are dozens of cases in our system - before the appeal court. You've been stubborn with the courts, with a logic of specialization. I am addressing you, Minister, because a Undersecretary at the Ministry of Justice should know what I am about to say to you. No longer are decrees of the President of the Republic necessary or legislative changes, since the Minister of Justice, by ministerial decree, has the possibility to determine organic plants by modifying them, in relation to the flows of workloads, even twice in a year. We had therefore proposed that the Minister should determine the organic plants of the sections. But we have been told no and that it is already in the system. What did it mean to determine organic plants? Determine how many people had to be in each of the sections and thus have the opportunity to reuse those who really have an experience. Instead, we were told no. And the consequence is that this legislation, as it has been written, is a detailed provision, i.e. the President of the Court, like any other Chamber, will have to determine which judges are and the Board of Governors, in the evaluation of the table, will take into account what the President of the Court has said. But, after twenty years of discussing these arguments, the magistrates who have dealt with the matter have specialized and have such an age that they must appeal. You can't block them. What, then, is the reason why you introduced a system that, even to those who read it, regardless of what I said (i.e. that rights should be protected in our system in that way) appears to be less guaranteed? Yet, we fought terrorism in our country, without altering the rules that are the foundation of our democratic state; rules that imposed that at the appeal court we had a collegiate body, with the opportunity to delegate one of the members of the college to carry out an audience, and we had the opportunity to have a procedure - you identified it - of the council chamber, which was correct. This situation leads to absurdity. We have tabled amendments to help the government, but you put your trust in it, which means that we do not have the opportunity to discuss it here. I must tell you, Minister, that I expected another reflection, which we have called for several times both in the Commission and in this House. You know better than I that humanitarian protection has been introduced in our country by the Turkish-Napolitan law and strengthened by the Berlusconi Government, which also guaranteed what I hope you do and what you are doing, namely to establish relations with the countries of North Africa in order to achieve possible centres in those states. What happened, Minister? In 2010, thanks to the commitment of the Berlusconi Government, we reduced the entrances to our country to 2,750. Humanitarian protection had about 4,000 beneficiaries and it was right, therefore, to strengthen it. However, you know better than I do that there are no rules on humanitarian protection in all European countries. They exist only in Germany, where the phenomenon, however, is particularly small - as you well know - since we are talking about maximum numbers that are around 7,000. We're talking about 100,000 or more. We should have thought about whether that legislation is still up to date, whether it needs a re-reading or a re-writing. Now was the time. In fact, you know better than I that those to whom humanitarian protection is recognized remain in our country and, with a view to relations with other States, we cannot have any chance of sending them to other countries; not even Germany takes them, because our legislation is much wider than theirs. This is the logic with which we had undertaken to give a series of indications, which were not at all obstructive: it was only an attempt, in the face of what we have experienced in recent years, that is a series - now almost 100 - of decree-laws and of votes of trust. Patience, we will vote against confidence for these reasons, but I would ask you to engage on the issues I have just mentioned, in order to make the necessary corrections. [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-795.ana.u39	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-795.ana.u40	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-795.ana.u41	Mr Russo (PD). Madam President, fellow senators, government representatives, ministers, what we are about to vote on is an ambitious measure. Time will tell whether all the solutions chosen will be the most appropriate. But certainly in it we find the proof that there is still space and need for a policy that looks far away, serious and courageous; that it does not resign to shortness of breath and easy consensus, because we know that on the subject of immigration our continent is perhaps playing today the most decisive challenge, what will define its own social composition, the quality of our continuing to live in open and cohesive communities, our role in the world. I therefore believe that, in order to fully understand the quality and level of the bet of what we are about to approve and of the policies that the government is promoting in these weeks, it is necessary to try to change perspective. I would really like, ladies and gentlemen, to vote today looking at Agadez and Berlin. Agadez is a city in Niger unknown to the vast majority of Italian citizens, it is the mecca of the traffickers of women and men; an infernal circle through which every year at least 150,000 desperate pass who dream of reaching the Libyan coasts and then our country, not without being victims of violence, kidnapping, torture and slavery. It is the emblem of a migration phenomenon that will affect hundreds of millions of people in the coming years around the world and that forces us to develop long-term strategies, as the ones provided for in this measure prove to be. And then there is Berlin, because the diplomatic agreement between Italy and Germany signed last week, which will fortunately involve Austria and Switzerland (and, in perspective, France and Slovenia), finally sees some of the main European countries flank Italy in the management of the immigration emergency. Let's reclaim it, please, all together: these are not generous concessions to our country, but the first fruits of a fruitful diplomatic work that will see as the first result the reception of 500 refugees per month by German as part of the European relocation plan. But above all it is the recognition of the role that Italy has assumed in recent years as a country of first arrival of migrants and, at the same time, of the mistakes that many partners have made in leaving only our country, entrenching behind the European mechanisms, Dublin in the first place, delaying for too long the search for a shared solution. 11:07 a.m. (Russo followed). In this sense, what we are voting for can really be a good rule, which makes Italy and Europe a step forward to get out of the logic of improvisation and emergency; a rule that makes us more protagonists in the international context, which makes us more credible, also because it accompanies important political initiatives, such as those carried out by Minister Minniti in Libya, that push our partners to follow us on a virtuous path. And this will also happen thanks to the innovations introduced by this measure, to the fact that it provides for the establishment of specialised sections on migration, international protection and free movement of citizens of the European Union; sections in which judges, with specific competences and to whom a dedicated continuous training will be provided, will be able to respond to the need to ensure greater speed in judicial appeals. The new procedures relating to the recognition of international protection also go in this direction. We want to say this very clearly: our country will be a country that will never close the doors to those who have the right, starting with those unaccompanied minors who are the weakest among the weak, and on which we reaffirm that we will not make discounts to any easy propaganda, because we know that on these principles and values we play the dignity and profile of civilization of our country. With as much clarity, however, we want to give the Italians another message: this provision arises from the awareness that a country like ours can accept only if it is able to quickly assess who really has the right to stay and who this right does not have, and that it is necessary to get an answer to this question in a reasonable time. Overcoming the emptiness of waiting, the dead times due to procedural slowness, also offering the opportunity of a commitment to the community from which you are hosted, is an obligatory step that we owe to the dignity of asylum seekers, who cannot remain parked for years without certain news about their future. But we also owe it to the dignity of our communities who ask us for elements of certainty, starting from the fact that those who have no right or break our laws must be brought back quickly to the country of origin. From this point of view, we want to reiterate - and I also address my colleague Mr De Petris - that the detention centres for return will be distinct and distant from the old CIEs; Indeed, this procedure closes the CIEs by identifying 1,600 places reserved only for people waiting to be repatriated, people for whom it has been clarified that they are outside the perimeter of the law or that they constitute a potential risk to the security of the Country. Colleagues, it is clear that this decree-law, and even more so what we will discuss in the coming weeks, also addresses the difficult and decisive issue of security. We want to face it without taboos, because we know that only guaranteeing security will create real opportunities for welcome that enrich our country without any phenomena of rejection. Security, in fact, is one of the founding principles of a democracy and it is an issue that can and must have full citizenship on the right and on the left. It is a common good, and as such it must be protected, and above all it concerns the weakest and their rights of freedom. I want to tell some people that they think they are excited by playing with the fear of people that the country is sad that forces its citizens even to think of buying a gun or a rifle to defend their home or shop. That's the far west. It is not the culture of coexistence that we are proud of. We want to defend the cornerstones of our living in open, supportive, secure communities because they are based on mutual respect, dialogue and collaboration between different people. What we are facing - let us not hide it - is a gigantic and unprecedented phenomenon. It's supposed to be scary. I want to be honest: it scares us that we have to try to manage it with political choices that will have consequences for the next generations. Just as it frightens the many security and social workers who are at the forefront and scares the citizens, especially the weakest, who experience, sometimes with a sense of loneliness, the effects of the sudden changes in global events that often enter violently into their lives. The measure we are voting for goes in that direction, and that is why it is a good policy. Italy can and must be a laboratory and an advanced model of management of these phenomena. Our vocation is an obligatory one: our geographical location tells us so. But then we put in place all our best energies and resources. Let us give ourselves the ambitious objective of showing Europe and the world how to reconcile the reception and security, humanitarian commitment and sustainable planning of flows, the fight against economic empires living from the hateful trafficking of women and men and the integration of those who only ask to be a good Italian citizen. We are already proud of what our country has been able to demonstrate first with the Letta Government and then with the one led by Matteo Renzi, with the operation Mare nostrum and with Triton. We are proud of the fact that in Europe the voice of the Italian Government, in an isolation that has sometimes touched loneliness, has been able to remember that, before being a problem, women and men on boats were human beings, worthy like us of an opportunity for dignified life. And, if we do not do this for our common Christian roots (the Gospel reads: "I was a stranger and you welcomed me," we can remember that we Europeans share an openness to the other which is born in the humanism of so many women and men of culture, who have marked our millenary civilization, and in the French revolution, which more than two hundred years ago founded freedom and equality on the value of universal fraternity. Mr President, we would like this measure to speak to the Italians and say very simple things to them but, at the same time, very clear in a time of magnificent and terrible challenges. We must tell our fellow citizens that good politics has an ambitious idea to address an epochal phenomenon such as migration; that we do not mock citizens by telling them that there are simple and cheap recipes for such complex problems; that we are aware that life in the outskirts of our cities, in many jobs, in our children's schools, is changing at a speed never experienced and that we all need to be reassured that this will not necessarily turn into less security; that this change will not upset our habits, our lifestyles, the values in which we believe and which characterize our community being. But we would like - let me say this - to send out a signal of unity from this Parliament, despite the legitimate diversity of opinions and technical solutions, to show that the fears of Italians do not remain unheard of by politics, but at the same time we are able to make a commitment not to turn the concerns of the future of citizens into propaganda and instrumental clashes. On such important issues for everyone's future we should not be divided. It is with these convictions and with these wishes that the Group of the Party of European Socialists will vote strongly in favour of the measure before this House today. [[Applause from the PD Group and Senator Longo Fausto Guilherme.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-795.ana.u42	On behalf of the Assembly, I greet the teachers and students of the Istituto Tecnico Informatica - Falcone-Righi - Corsico, in the province of Milan, who are attending our work. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-795.ana.u43	We shall therefore proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-795.ana.u44	I refer to the vote on amendment 1,900 (correct text), presented by the Government, entirely replacing the single article of the bill of conversion of Decree-Law No 13 of 17 February 2017 on the approval of which the Government has put the question of trust. I recall that pursuant to Rule 94, second paragraph, of the Constitution and pursuant to Rule 161, paragraph 1, of the Rules of Procedure, the vote on trust will take place by roll-call vote. Each senator called by the Senator Secretary will have to vote before the Presidency. The senators for trust will answer yes; the opposing senators will answer no; the senators who intend to abstain will speak accordingly. I now draw by lot the name of the senator from whom the roll call will begin. (The name of Senator De Pin is drawn by lot.) I invite the Senator Secretary to proceed with the appeal, starting with Senator De Pin. SIBILIA, secretary, makes the appeal. The senators answered: Aiello, Albano, Albertini, Amati, Angioni, Anitori, Astorre Battista, Berger, Rosstuzzi, Bianconi, Bilardi, Bonaiuti, Bondi, Borioli, Bubbico Caleo, Cantini, Capacchione, Cardinals, Chiavaroli, Chiti, Cirinna, Cocincich, Collina, Colucci, Corsini, Cuomo D'Adda, Dalla Tor, Dalla Zuanna, D'Ascoli, Davico, De Biasi, Di Biagio, Di Giacomo, D'Onghia Esposito Stefano Fabbri, Fasiolo, Fattorini, Favero, Fedeli, Ferrara Elena, Filippi, Finocchiaro, Fissori, Fornaro, Fravezzi Gatti, Gentile, Gione, Gianni, Ginetti, Ginetti, Ginetti, Ginetti, Gionetti, Gionetti, Gio The senators: Airola, Alicata, Aracri, Arrigoni, Augello, Auricchio, Azzollini Barani, Barozzino, Bernini, Bertacco, Bignami, Blundo, Boccardi, Bocchini, Bonfrisco, Bottici, Bruni, Buccarella, Bulgarelli Calderoli, Caliendo, Candiani, Cappelletti, Carraro, Casaletto, Castaldi, Catalfo, Ceroni, Cervellini, Ciampolino, Cioffi, Comaroli, Compagna, Compagnone, Consiglio, Crimi D'Alì, D'Ambrosio Lettieri, D'Anna, De Cristofaro, De Petris, De Pin, De Sano, De Sano, Di Maggio, Divina Fasano, Ferrara Mario, Floris Gaetti, Gibino, Giovanardi, Giro Iurlaro Langella, Liuzzi, Longo Eva, Luci, Lon, Luco Eva, Luciolini Mandeli, Perli, Perli, Divio, Divio, Mingoli, Divieri, Divieri, Divino, Divieri, Divieri, Diviero, Mignoli, Mignoli, Mignoli, Migno, Diviero, Diviero, Migno, Migno, Migno, Migno, Migno, Migno, Migno, Migno, Migno, Migno, Migno, Migno, Migno, Migno, Migno, Migno, Migno, Migno, Migno, Migno, Migno, Migno, Migno, Migno, Migno, Migno, Migno, Migno, Migno, Migno, and others Senators are abstaining: Conti Presidente. I declare the vote closed and invite the Secretary Senators to proceed with the counting of votes. (Secretary Senators proceed to count votes).
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-795.ana.u45	I greet, on behalf of the Assembly, the teachers and students of the Technical Institute for Economic and Technological Studies, Gaetano Salvemini, Molfetta, in the province of Bari, who are attending our work. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-795.ana.u46	I declare the result of the roll-call vote by appeal of amendment 1,900 (correct text), entirely replacing the sole article of the bill of conversion into law of Decree-Law No 13 of 17 February 2017 on the approval of which the Government has posed the question of trust: [[Senators present 260 Senators voting 253 Majority 127 Favorables 145 Contrari 107 Absent 1]] The Senate approves. All amendments and agendas relating to the text of Decree-Law No 13 are therefore excluded.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-795.ana.u47	The motions, questions and questions received by the Presidency will be published in Annex B to today's report. I recall that the Senate will return to public session today, at 4.30 p.m., on the same agenda. The sitting was closed at 12.05 a.m.
