ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-817.ana.u1	The sitting is open (9.31 a.m.). The Minutes shall be read. Mr SIBILIA, Secretary, gave a reading of the Minutes of the sitting of the previous day.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-817.ana.u2	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-817.ana.u3	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-817.ana.u4	SANTANGELO (M5S). Mr President, I would like to ask for the vote on the Minutes, subject to a quorum check. Verification of quorum
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-817.ana.u5	I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators, by electronic procedure. (The request is supported). I therefore call on the senators to make their presence known by electronic means. (Follows the quorum check.) The Senate has a quorum. Resumption of the debate on the Minutes I put the Minutes to the vote. It's approved.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-817.ana.u6	The list of senators on leave and absent on assignment received from the Senate, as well as further communications to the Assembly, will be published in Annex B to today's Minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-817.ana.u7	I would warn you that qualified votes can be taken in the course of today's sitting by electronic means. Therefore, from this moment the period of 20 minutes from the notice provided for in Article 119, paragraph 1 of the Regulation (9.35 hours) begins.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-817.ana.u8	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-817.ana.u9	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-817.ana.u10	Gasparri (FI-PdL XVII). Mr President, in recent days Lucio Toth, who was a senator in the 10th legislature, has disappeared in Rome, but he has been above all a great patriot, a magistrate of Cassazione, a man of great historical culture, not only Italian, but European, author of essays and articles of a legal, historical and political nature, especially Dalmatian. For decades Toth has been recognized as leader of the Julian and Dalmatian associationism. So it has not only contributed as legislator to the work of this Assembly, but has contributed extensively to the debate, including legislative, historical and cultural of our country. With great authority he has constantly followed all the complex events that have led the world of politics to the official recognition of the drama of the exodus from the Adriatic lands after years of silence. [[Brusio]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-817.ana.u11	I call on colleagues to moderate the buzz in order to allow Mr Gasparri to continue his speech, particularly in the area where he sits.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-817.ana.u12	Gasparri (FI-PdL XVII). Thank you, President. In 2004, the Parliament, also thanks to Lucio Toth's cultural, political and institutional action, approved the law that recognized the memory of the foibe and the exodus with the day that is dedicated every year to that dramatic affair. His commitment to the institutions has been constant in his concern to maintain a fruitful flow of cooperation with the parliamentary committees, with the Presidency of the Republic and with the government authorities. His commitment was therefore directed to keep alive a patrimony of memories, to animate the life of associationism, to promote legislative processes and also to find in the post-war world a different way of dialogue on a border that was marked by dramatic events. Therefore, for all of us who have followed these issues within Parliament and politics, even if not originating from those lands so sacred in the memory of so many, Toth has been a constant reference, for initiatives sometimes, in a climate of peace, not to deny the memory of the past. It has also happened recently, on the unsolved issues of reparations, which this Assembly itself has dealt with discussing in recent days of the DEF, with representatives of government who have undertaken to return to this memory and with the attention of the President of the Republic, Mattarella, who just recently, after the day of remembrance, receiving the leading members of the Julian, Istrian and Dalmatian associations, confirmed the attention of the institutions and the possibilities of meeting and deepening. This would not have been possible, colleagues, without Lucio Toth's tireless commitment. All of us who have followed these issues remember their culture, balance and wisdom. He helped everyone, in so many commitments: I remember, when the public service radio and television realized the film "The heart in the well" which for the first time offered to a large audience the memory of those tragedies, like Toth followed that story, also giving a contribution to the definition of a historical framework, which was as reliable as possible. Madam President, thanking the Presidency for allowing this memory, we are grateful to him, because he must have helped to bring back, in the collective memory and in the history of his homeland, a tragedy that has been forgotten for too long. That's why we remember and thank Senator Lucio Toth. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-817.ana.u13	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-817.ana.u14	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-817.ana.u15	PEGORER (Art. 1-MDP). Madam President, the Article 1 Group - Democratic and Progressive Movement joins the mourning for the disappearance of Senator Lucio Toth, expressing its deepest condolences to the family and the National Association Venezia Giulia and Dalmatia, of which he was honorary president. Born in Zadar, a city to which he was always strongly linked and whose history he devoted a precious volume, he was among those who followed the painful path of the exodus after World War II. He became the Magistrate of cassation, a senator of Christian Democracy during the 10th legislature. Untiring protagonist of Julian-dalmatian associationism, he was president of the Federation of Associations of Istrian, Fiumani and Dalmatian exiles. Precisely as a point of reference of the associations of exiles, Lucio Toth was able to fight, on the one hand, to maintain the historical memory of the presence of Italian culture in those lands and, at the same time, recognize its historical plurality, which has always made it the place of meeting different stories, cultures, languages and traditions. His political commitment to the Senate of the Republic coincided with the phase of the unravelling of Yugoslavia and the emergence of the new state identities of the Republics of Slovenia and Croatia. It was precisely in those years that Lucio Toth grasped with great lucidity as on those lands and on the recognition of their multicultural dimension, starting from the recognition of the Italian cultural identity, a fundamental part was played in the construction of a new European identity. With the enlargement of the European Union, in fact, first to Slovenia and then to Croatia, the territory of Venice Julia and Dalmatia was recomposing in a single supranational entity: a historical and territorial area, which can only be thought of and valued in its plurality. He understood, in my opinion, how the construction of a genuine European Union, that it was a unity not only of economic laws and parameters but also of peoples, could only go through the recognition of the different and peculiar cultural and linguistic identities, as well as the history of every part of the Continent. In this sense, his contribution as a member of the Italo-Slovenian historical-cultural commission was extremely significant, which between 1993 and 2000 produced a fundamental document on relations between Italy and Slovenia between 1880 and 1956. A document that, thanks also to its contribution, has become a reference point in the relations between Italians and Slovenians and has helped to build a history that is common heritage recognized by all communities and is far from different nationalisms and dangerous exploitations. I would also like to recall his work on the path that led to the institution of the Day of Remembrance, a work aimed at restoring the historical truth of those dramatic events, so that the preservation of the memory of the exodus and the tragedy of the foibes is one of the pillars in order to build, within the framework of historical truth, that necessary process of understanding and dialogue between the Italian, Slovenian and Croatian communities so torn apart by the tragic events of the last century. It is your work, which has always valued, Madam President, the dimension of dialogue and mutual understanding as a key element to remember and understand the past and, even more, to build the future. As is well known, the Region from which I come, Friuli-Venezia Giulia, is a border land, composed of different historical and cultural identities and marked by the dramas of nationalism. Lucio Toth's cultural and political lesson is, for these lands, and for Italy as a whole, I believe, an example to be followed in order to promote a future of moral and material progress. Today, in recalling the figure of politician, historian and magistrate of Lucio Toth, we pay homage, therefore, to a personality that, with its commitment and its values, has helped to indicate the way for the birth of a new Europe founded on peace and collaboration between peoples and states. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-817.ana.u16	We greet the family and friends of Senator Lucio Toth who are in the gallery and attend the commemoration of the figure of the Senator. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-817.ana.u17	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-817.ana.u18	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-817.ana.u19	DI BIAGIO (AP-CpE). Madam President, I take the floor on behalf of my group to commemorate the figure of Senator Lucio Toth, who worked in this House during the 10th legislature. Liberal Catholic and convincedly pro-European, he exercised his political militancy from a young age in Catholic associations, becoming also president of the Christian Workers Movement, until the election in the Senate in the ranks of Christian Democracy. Those who had the opportunity to know him and work with him in the course of his experience as a senator remember him for his culture, for his balance and for his innate vocation to dialogue, so he was not a partisan. He was not only a senator, but also a leading exponent of the associationism of the Istrian and Julian-dalmatian exodus to which he dedicated all of himself through a continuous dissemination and historiographical work aimed at achieving an integration and collaboration between the peoples facing the Adriatic. Lucio Toth, in fact, was born in Zadar and had left the native city with the exodus of the Italian population at the end of the Second World War, but maintaining with the same a strong bond. Let me say that only those who have lived on their own skin the tragedy of the exodus can understand what deep wounds leave such an experience. By virtue of his strong and visceral bond with the land of origin we can say that Lucius was a patriot in the highest sense of the term, far from the drifts of nationalism. He loved his homeland, loved and defended his history, but always promoting a pluralistic approach respecting the memory of all and individual paths, in order to bring down on one side and on the other the misunderstandings of the past. Having lived directly the tragic experience of the exodus, he committed his life so that it would not be forgotten. Lucio Toth was from 1992 until his resignation in 2012, at the summit of the Julian Association - Dalmatia, member of the Italian-Slovenian Historical and Cultural Commission, which between 1993 and 2000 prepared a joint document on Italian-Slovene relations between 1880 and 1956. I would also like to recall his debate, moderated by the directors of "Il Piccolo" and "Primorski dnevnik" which he held in April 2009 with Senator Milos Budin, an authoritative exponent of the Slovenian community in Italy, who was preparatory to the historic Concert of the three Presidents in Piazza dell'Unità in Trieste in July of the following year, of which President Napolitano was promoter. In his books he left a lucid testimony of the exodus, with an impeccable historical reconstruction and free from any prejudice, aimed at the search for a historical truth that was shared by the entire country. Just this respectful approach and this balance of his made him conquer the esteem of his interlocutors who, understanding the strong bond with his homeland, even more appreciated his effort to seek unity, even where it seemed complex to reach it. Precisely to confirm this unanimous perception of the qualities and value of this man, there are many messages of mourning and respect for his person who came from many parts. In this perspective I also wanted to express the message of condolence of the ambassador of the Croatian Republic to Italy, Professor Damir Grubisa, as a metaphor for that sharing and that unity of values and perspectives of which Toth was the promoter and guarantor. Thanks to these qualities and the esteem and authority that Lucio Toth has been able to gain, he has played a fundamental role in the legislative process of the institution of the Day of Remembrance, making it perceived as a heritage shared by our national community. Lucio has left, but he has left a deep mark in all those who have known him and have been able to appreciate his talents of politician, writer, but above all of man. And with his last book, "History of Zadar." From its origins to the present day, he wanted to address the extreme act of love for his Dalmatia. [[Applause from the AP-CpE and PD Groups]] Lucio Toth was a European intellectual who wanted to reconstruct history, but above all imagine a new future for the eastern Adriatic, with a view to historical emancipation and regional and European integration. I had the honour to know him, to share with him reflections on that Adriatic sea which, as he loved to say, unites and zips, to receive its precious teachings. Our heartfelt condolences go to the family. Lucio, we're gonna miss you. [[Applause. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-817.ana.u20	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-817.ana.u21	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-817.ana.u22	GIOVANARDI (GAL (GS, PPI, M, Id, E-E, MPL, RI)). Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, on behalf of Idea-Popolo and Liberty, I first greet the family, especially the wife, and the exodus people present in the gallery. Lucio Toth has already been mentioned in the Senate and in the press as senator, magistrate, jurist, historian, writer, man of associationism (National President of the Christian Workers Movement, first, and of the Federation of Julian-Fiuman-Dalmatian Exiles, then). I want to remember him instead as an extraordinary friend, a great gentleman from whom I received priceless lessons of life. Many of those who knew him, this morning they called him a great patriot, but not everyone knows that the Toth family does not have Italian origins, but Hungarians, first arrived in Split and then in Zadar, in the early nineteenth century with Napoleonic troops. The Italianity of Toth, in fact, as that of the great families, but also of the people of Zadar, Split, Šibenik, Traù, Ragusa, the islands of Lesina and Kurzola, of Cattarus was not ethnic, but was born from the admiration of the great Dalmatian figures, such as Niccolò Tommaseo, who we remember being the father of the Italian language, or beyond the sea, such as Dante, Manzoni, Leopardi, Foscolo, Leonardo, Michelangelo, and the millenarian Italian history, and from a centuries-old familiarity with cities in Dalmatia and with villages built as small Venezies, set between the hinterland, the sky and the sea, in the shade of the lion of San Marco, where the sweet Istrian-Veneto idiom has always been spoken. A world illustrated, with the colors of his creativity, by Ottavio Missoni and by writers like Enzo Bettizza. We talk about patriots when it wasn't easy to be: Lucio always told that his grandfather, Marshal of the Austro-Hungarian army, in 1917 in Zadar, in the days after Caporetto replied to the colonel who invited him to toast the great victory of the empire over the Italians, laying down the glass and saying: "I see no reason to toast". This Italy had long been invoked by the Zaratins, by the Dalmatians, who joined it after the First World War, when the mayor, then Senator of the Kingdom, Luigi Ziliotto (his bust is here, right at the entrance of the Hall, together with Ghiglianovic, another great Dalmatian senator), sent to Zadar posters with writing: "No word, continue to weep with joy, Dalmatia remains forever in Italy." This until the tragic 1945 when the city, annexed to Yugoslavia, remained but heaps of rubble. The question of the gold medal awarded by the Head of State to the memory of the city of Zadar is still open, but not yet delivered on a matter, which we hope will soon be resolved, with our Croatian friends. The inhabitants of the city died for a third under the bombings and for a third they were killed by the communist partisans or by the German Nazis, while the remaining had to leave one of the most martyred cities in Italy. I shall conclude, Madam President. Lucio described his Zadar and his Dalmatia in his history books and his novels, as only a lover of his own land can do. Now, by his precise will, he rests in Abruzzo by the sea, in front of the Zadar of his childhood, his memories and dreams. He rested there, ideally together, for him deeply Catholic, to all the Italian Zaratins, to the many who rest in the cemetery of the Italians of Zadar, to the few remaining in that city, to the current Croatian Zaratins (for him however Zaratins inhabitants of that city) and to those scattered in other parts of the world. Hi, Lucio. [[Applause. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-817.ana.u23	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-817.ana.u24	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-817.ana.u25	CASINI (AP-CpE). Madam President, the emotional words of Senator Di Biagio and the memory of Senator Giovanardi, whom I have heard now, exhort me to retrace the salient features of Lucio Toth's life. However, I would like to associate my voice with theirs because I had an experience in common with Lucio Toth, when, as Vice President of the Commission of Inquiry to investigate the phenomena of terrorism and massacres, I found myself in that forum with the leader of the Christian Democracy, who was then Lucio Toth. I met him there, appreciating his moral rigor, civil tension and high humanity. I saw him a few months ago right here in the Senate, outside the Chamber, perhaps in one of his last appearances, and I stopped to talk lovingly with him. Lucio Toth was truly a significant personality and the fact that the Senate has dedicated some of its time to his memory is a testimony that, in my opinion, gives value to humanity and the patriotic spirit that must animate this Assembly. In his life Lucio Toth has followed a long, dense and significant path of success and above all has left us all an important witness. If today there is the Day of remembrance and we talk about the foibes, a tragedy for a long time omitted and forgotten by the books of history and the chronicle, one of the personalities that must have the tribute of honor because it has returned a historical truth to Italy is called Lucio Toth. It is good that today we, all together - majority and opposition - have remembered this in this House. Thank you, Lucio. [[Applause from the AP-CpE and PD groups and the Senators Bianconi and Giovanardi.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-817.ana.u26	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-817.ana.u27	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-817.ana.u28	Mr Russo (PD). Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, one of the most important scholars of the events of the eastern borders, Professor Raoul Pupo, who knew Lucio Toth well and for a time worked with him in the very difficult work of rebuilding a shared memory of the people of those lands, in these days summed up the profile and commitment of the senator just disappeared. Raoul Pupo said he could testify that Toth really represented with nobility of mind and competence the memory of the Guliano-Dalmatian exiles even in the not easy context of the historical cultural commissions promoted by Italy, Slovenia and Croatia, who worked between 1993 and 2000, making themselves appreciated by all for the ability to combine ideality and kindness. Yes, kindness, perhaps a strange term for a figure even political; a human trait and the recognized ability to remain jealously and proudly tied to their Dalmatian and Zaratine roots. Even in the multifaceted professional, social commitment - as has been recalled - cultural, political, these remain the best legacy of a personality who has also been able to witness, although personally marked by the events of the Julian-Dalmata exodus - let us remind the many who still in our country do not know him - one of the most terrible and painful pages of the post-war period; a dialogue, constructive style, even in the not easy relationship between the exiles and the remaining ones; an open vision that was always forced to read the events of the Adriatic-Oriental peoples in the most general European context. Brilliant magistrate, engaged in Catholic associationism, in the communities of the exiles, although forced to abandon very young Zadar in order to reach Rome, Toth was able to maintain close ties with his lands of origin. After having seen recognized its qualities with the election to Palazzo Madama in 1987 - as it has been remembered - in the lists of Christian Democracy, directed from 1992 to 2012 the National Association Venezia Giulia and Dalmatia, in years of great transformations, followed by the destruction of Yugoslavia, in which emerged its political ability, the ability to safeguard and promote in every context the riches and specificities, but also the tempera of intellectual end, endowed with historical sensitivity and narrative talent. From his commitment and style I want to draw one last lesson. Even today, on the right and on the left, we sometimes see the temptation to awaken the demons and divisions of the twentieth century - and in particular, in the North-East of our country, in my lands, sometimes still divided - to awaken the demons and divisions of the twentieth century, perhaps in order to gain political consensus. Toth, while keeping clear his inspiration and identity as a patriot, jealous of his cultural roots and the memory of the exodus, always worked in institutions and institutions so that the dramas of the last century were patrimony of all and warning for future generations. As my colleague Di Biagio also recalled, in 2009 a public dialogue between Toth and Senator Milos Budin, an authoritative representative of the Slovenian community in Italy, was a fine example of how exponents of cultures that history had led to be "enemy" - I quote this word - could be protagonists of a vision of the future, in which diversity does not deny its own history, but they treasure the mutual mistakes, learning to respect themselves in order to build a better future. This is the lesson for which we still want to thank Lucio Toth and for which we remember him with affection today in this House. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-817.ana.u29	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-817.ana.u30	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-817.ana.u31	Mr Giro, Deputy Minister for Foreign Affairs and International Cooperation. Madam President, on behalf of the Government I would like to associate myself with the commemoration of Senator Lucio Toth and the words of condolence that have been well expressed here by many honourable senators, for the person, for personal history, but also for those grieved lands that still arouse so much emotion, as we have heard from the words of the honourable senators and, in particular, of Senator Di Biagio. [[Applause from the PD Group and Senator Casini.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-817.ana.u32	The Presidency is also associated with remembrance and mourning for the loss of such a significant cultural, political and moral figure. I believe that the words of my fellow senators have also given an emotion to those who, like me, have not been lucky enough to know him personally. Of course, the Presidency is associated with the mourning of the family and friends who have suffered a serious loss, given the quality of the missing person.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-817.ana.u33	The next item is the debate on the draft law No 2639, already approved by the House of Deputies. The rapporteur, Senator Verducci, has requested authorisation to carry out the oral report. No comments were made and the request was accepted. I therefore call the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-817.ana.u34	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, this understanding is the first on the subject between the two parties, the Government of the Italian Republic and the Government of the Socialist Republic of Vietnam, and has the objective of establishing in an organic way a regulatory framework to bring back all forms of administrative cooperation in the customs field in order to prevent, ascertain and suppress customs infringements potentially related to bilateral trade relations which are increasingly increasing. I would like to remind you that Vietnam is a country in great economic development, with which Italy has excellent relations. Our country is Vietnam's fourth largest trading partner among the EU countries for total trade and has investments of 340 million dollars, and is the fifth destination market for Vietnamese products. This Agreement, obviously safeguarding Italy's obligations to be a member of the European Union, defines the modalities and procedures for the provision of assistance and for the exchange of information, and also regulates the hypothesis of spontaneous assistance that each of the two countries can provide to the other on its own initiative, in the face of serious customs violations that can cause substantial damage to the economy, health or public safety. It is an Agreement which also governs the possibility of refusal or postponement of assistance, the possibility of controlled deliveries in certain cases of customs offences and the arrangements for the confidential use of the information exchanged; technical cooperation between the parties which may include exchanges of visits, customs officials, experts, training activities, the exchange of information and experience. The draft law ratifying the Agreement consists of five articles on the authorization to ratify, on the order of execution, on the competences of the Finance Guard Corps, on the financial cover and, finally, on the entry into force. The resulting economic burdens are valued in just over 18,000 euros per year and this Agreement, Madam President, does not present any profiles of incompatibility with national legislation, Community law or other international obligations entered into by our country. That is why I propose to the House that this measure be approved.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-817.ana.u35	As you have not been included in the general discussion and as the representative of the Government does not intend to intervene in the reply, I inform you that the Presidency - and it is being distributed - has received the opinion of the 5th Permanent Commission on the draft law under consideration, which will be published in an annex to today's Report. We shall proceed to the vote on Rule 1. SANTANGELO (M5S). We also call for votes to be taken by simultaneous ballot by electronic means for subsequent articles. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Article 1. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the vote on Rule 2. I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request for simultaneous voting, by electronic procedure, is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Rule 2. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the vote on Rule 3. I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request for simultaneous voting, by electronic procedure, is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Rule 3. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the vote on Rule 4. I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request for simultaneous voting, by electronic procedure, is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Rule 4. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the vote on Rule 5. I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request for simultaneous voting, by electronic procedure, is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Rule 5. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B).
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-817.ana.u36	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-817.ana.u37	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-817.ana.u38	STEFANI (LN-Aut). Madam President, the Italian-Vietnamese Agreement on cooperation and mutual administrative assistance in customs matters is part of the wide range of agreements between our country and its partners, with the aim of facilitating the development of trade without widening the space available to those who wish to circumvent the respect of national legislation in customs matters. Let's remember that the interchange between Italy and Vietnam has reached 4,3 billion dollars in 2015. Our country accounts for more than 10% of the trade between Vietnam and the European Union. As exporters of European products in Vietnam we are second only to Germany. We support the Agreement in many parts of it, particularly as regards limiting the circulation of sensitive information. In view of this, the Lega Nord Group sees no reason to oppose ratification.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-817.ana.u39	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-817.ana.u40	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-817.ana.u41	AMORUSO (ALA-SCLP). Madam President, the ALA-SCCLP Group also announces its vote in favour because, in addition to the reasons underlying the ratification of the Agreement, we would like to point out that trade relations between Italy and Vietnam have a very important significance. Italy is Vietnam's fourth largest trading partner for the European Union and is the fifth largest trading partner for Vietnamese products. There is a great interchange; there are investments for hundreds of millions from both Italian and Vietnamese: Italian entrepreneurs are very present in Vietnamese reality, which is in great evolution. This Agreement, therefore, goes in the direction of making everything easier in order to facilitate trade even more.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-817.ana.u42	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-817.ana.u43	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-817.ana.u44	Sangalli (PD). Madam President, I am voting in favour of the Group of the Party of European Socialists.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-817.ana.u45	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-817.ana.u46	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-817.ana.u47	Sangalli (PD). We call for the vote to be taken by simultaneous ballot by electronic means.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-817.ana.u48	I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I refer to the nominal vote by simultaneous ballot of the bill as a whole. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B).
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-817.ana.u49	The next item is the debate on draft law No 2619, already approved by the House of Deputies. The rapporteur, Senator Sangalli, has requested authorisation to carry out the oral report. No comments were made and the request was accepted. I therefore call the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-817.ana.u50	Madam President, the purpose of this Agreement is to update a previous bilateral agreement dating back to 1977, by achieving a more effective and balanced distribution of the taxable matter between the two Contracting States. The provisions, as in many other agreements in this area, follow the model of the tax convention drawn up in the OSCE. The agreement applies to natural and legal persons resident in one or both of the Contracting States and limited to income taxation. The Agreement defines the concept of residence, permanent establishment and profits by accepting the general principle that profits of undertakings are taxable in the State of residence of the undertaking, with the exception of income produced through a stable organisation. The text therefore regulates the methods of taxation of property income, dividends and interest, as well as the tax treatment of income derived from employed employment and from the activity of artists and sportsmen. In the field of pensions, the Convention provides for the principle of taxation only in the State of residence, while remuneration resulting from the performance of public functions is taxed by the State at source. In order to avoid double taxation, the Agreement provides for the use of the ordinary method of charging for both parties. The bill consists of four articles. The cost to be incurred for Italy is estimated at 18,000 euros per year and, therefore, is rather low, but its importance is high, given the quantity of Italian companies that have built secondary offices or settlements in Romania.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-817.ana.u51	As you have not been included in the general discussion and as the representative of the Government does not intend to intervene in the reply, I inform you that the Presidency - and it is being distributed - has received the opinion of the 5th Permanent Commission on the draft law under consideration, which will be published in an annex to today's Report. We shall proceed to the vote on Rule 1. SANTANGELO (M5S). We also call for votes to be taken by simultaneous ballot by electronic means for subsequent articles. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Article 1. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the vote on Rule 2. I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request for simultaneous voting, by electronic procedure, is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Rule 2. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the vote on Rule 3. I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request for simultaneous voting, by electronic procedure, is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Rule 3. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the vote on Rule 4. I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request for simultaneous voting, by electronic procedure, is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Rule 4. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B).
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-817.ana.u52	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-817.ana.u53	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-817.ana.u54	AMORUSO (ALA-SCLP). Madam President, I recall the importance of Italy's relations with Romania and how this measure only intervenes in order to update previous agreements and make them more useful and necessary.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-817.ana.u55	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-817.ana.u56	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-817.ana.u57	SANTANGELO (M5S). Madam President, the Agreement in question concerns the approval of an OECD convention scheme establishing a series of pacts between the parties for the tax treatment of both individuals and companies. The previous agreement dates back to 1978 and is therefore, of course, an obsolete agreement. For this reason, I declare the vote in favour of the 5 Star Movement.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-817.ana.u58	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-817.ana.u59	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-817.ana.u60	Mr Verducci (PD). Madam President, I am voting in favour of the Group of the Party of European Socialists.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-817.ana.u61	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-817.ana.u62	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-817.ana.u63	Mr Sangalli, rapporteur. We call for the vote to be taken by simultaneous ballot by electronic means.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-817.ana.u64	I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I refer to the nominal vote by simultaneous ballot of the bill as a whole. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B).
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-817.ana.u65	The next item is the debate on draft law No 2620, which has already been approved by the House of Deputies. The rapporteur, Senator Sangalli, has requested authorisation to carry out the oral report. No comments were received, the request was accepted. I therefore call the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-817.ana.u66	Madam President, the draft law before us, already approved by the House, is the ratification of a series of transport agreements signed with 10 different countries (Qatar, Algeria, Vietnam, Kosovo, Moldova, Monaco, Montenegro, Serbia, Azerbaijan and Andorra). This is quite a singular measure, because it has the ratification of a plurality of international instruments, which are homogeneous for the type of intervention sector, namely transport, but which have been concluded with many countries deeply different from each other. However, these agreements are essentially technical in content, which regulate specific issues and move within a rather consolidated framework of international legislation. The first three Agreements concern air transport services; they have been signed with Qatar, Algeria and Vietnam and govern the ways of exercising the rights and powers of air services between the signatory countries; they lay down rules on the entry, allocation and exit from their territories of aircraft used in international air navigation. With the bilateral documents under consideration, the Parties recognise their respective certifications and licences, as well as certain customs exemptions relating to fuels, lubricants, on-board supplies and aircraft spare parts. The requirements that each carrier must have in order to meet international standards are also laid down. With regard to maritime transport services there are two Agreements signed in 2012 and 2014 with Algeria and Azerbaijan. These documents are part of the extension of the agreements signed by our country in the field of international shipping. The Agreements, in compliance with international obligations, aim, in particular, to organise bilateral maritime relations and activities, improving security conditions and cooperation for the facilitation of procedures applicable to ships, passengers and cargoes. The texts, which reaffirm the principle of freedom of navigation and the commitment of the parties to eliminate any obstacle to the development of maritime trade, shall apply to international means of maritime transport, excluding national cabotage and inland navigation activities. The Agreements also regulate the possibility of committing crimes on board ships of a Contracting Country in the territorial waters of the other Party, by establishing the application of the provisions of the 1982 Convention on International Law of the Sea. Further provisions concern training in the maritime sector. There are then six more Agreements signed with Kosovo, Moldova, the Principality of Monaco, Montenegro, Serbia and Andorra on international road haulage services for travellers and goods. The texts are aimed at regulating the activities of road hauliers, the regularity and development of journeys and the interchange of goods. They shall provide for an authorisation mechanism for carriers to transport passengers and goods between the two Contracting States or even in transit through the territory of the other Party. The texts also stipulate that the determination of the eligibility requirements of undertakings, vehicles and drivers is the responsibility of the competent bodies of the country of registration, in compliance with national legislation. The bill of ratification consists of 5 articles. The total economic costs for Italy are quantified in just over 33,000 euros for the first year, in about 13,000 for the second and in little more than 33,000 from the third. In conclusion, it is proposed that the Assembly approve this measure.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-817.ana.u67	We greet the students and the teachers of the Istituto comprensivo state Lequile in Lequile, in the province of Lecce, who are following our works. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-817.ana.u68	As you have not been included in the general discussion and as the representative of the Government does not intend to intervene in the reply, I inform you that the Presidency - and it is being distributed - has received the opinion of the 5th Permanent Commission on the draft law under consideration, which will be published in an annex to today's Report. We shall proceed to the vote on Rule 1. SANTANGELO (M5S). We also call for votes to be taken by simultaneous ballot by electronic means for subsequent articles. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Article 1. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the vote on Rule 2. I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request for simultaneous voting, by electronic procedure, is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Rule 2. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the vote on Rule 3. I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request for simultaneous voting, by electronic procedure, is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Rule 3. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the vote on Rule 4. I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request for simultaneous voting, by electronic procedure, is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Rule 4. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the vote on Rule 5. I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request for simultaneous voting, by electronic procedure, is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Rule 5. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B).
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-817.ana.u69	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-817.ana.u70	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-817.ana.u71	STEFANI (LN-Aut). Madam President, the act before us is perhaps a record. It is, in fact, a single measure which authorizes the Head of State to ratify as many as 11 treaties. It is a circumstance on which, perhaps, a reflection should be opened. However, although each of the ratifications before this House are concerned with international transport, it is clear that behind each of them there is a political vision of the relations that our Republic intends to maintain with its individual counterparts. We believe that the need for a political assessment of the state of relations with individual counterparties should have imposed a different approach. Of the eleven agreements before Parliament, two involve Algeria and one each Andorra, Azerbaijan, Kosovo, Moldova, the Principality of Monaco, Montenegro, Qatar, Serbia and Vietnam. Most of these states themselves would provide ideas for complex political assessments. The case of Kosovo is sufficient: what is the point of regulating the traffic of travellers and goods with this country if perhaps one wishes to contest the deepening of ties with that Republic itself, which has arisen from a violation of international law and is today a dangerous source of terrorist risk? On the other hand, if there were no political difficulties, why did the Agreement with Qatar on Air Services take 14 years before it was brought to Parliament's attention? Even the understanding with Moldova is even older, dating back to 1997. In our view, even recognizing the desire to speed up and the need to speed up ratification procedures, this should not be the way forward. On the other hand, it seems desirable to go back to the prevailing pattern of individual ratification. And if it turns out urgent to group the treaties, perhaps it will be better to do so in the future by choosing a criterion of at least geographical attribution, preferring the amalgamation in a single act of the close agreements with a single country. For this reason, on this authorisation to ratify, the Group of the North League will opt for abstention, also to point out its concerns about some particularly controversial agreements. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-817.ana.u72	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-817.ana.u73	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-817.ana.u74	AMORUSO (ALA-SCLP). Madam President, as the rapporteur has pointed out, the measure we are examining concerns eleven countries which are very different from each other in terms of transport matters and has the ratification of a plurality of international instruments, uniform by type, but which essentially have a technical significance and regulate specific issues. For these reasons, for the practical benefit of the measure, the ALA Group will vote in favour of this ratification.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-817.ana.u75	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-817.ana.u76	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-817.ana.u77	SANTANGELO (M5S). Madam President, I declare the 5 Star Movement Group's vote in favour of the bill of ratification when we consider it.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-817.ana.u78	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-817.ana.u79	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-817.ana.u80	Mr Verducci (PD). Madam President, I am referring to the importance of this measure, as highlighted by the words of the rapporteur, Mr Sangalli, and I am voting in favour of the Democratic Group.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-817.ana.u81	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-817.ana.u82	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-817.ana.u83	SANTANGELO (M5S). We call for the vote to be taken by simultaneous ballot by electronic means.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-817.ana.u84	I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I refer to the nominal vote by simultaneous ballot of the bill as a whole. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B).
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-817.ana.u85	The next item is the debate on draft law No 2052. The rapporteur, Senator Sangalli, has requested authorisation to carry out the oral report. No comments were made and the request was accepted. I therefore call the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-817.ana.u86	Madam President, the intention is to define the legal framework within which to develop cooperation between the two defence countries with the aim of strengthening bilateral relations, strengthening their defensive capacities and improving mutual understanding on security issues, while at the same time bringing about positive indirect effects in their respective productive and commercial sectors. The Agreement sets out first of all the guiding principles, the purpose of the agreement, the method of aggression of cooperation, and indicates the activities covered by cooperation: from security and defence policy activities to the exchange of technical-military information; from logistical support to military training. The modalities of cooperation include, inter alia, the exchange of visits, experiences, regular meetings, training activities and participation in military exercises. The Agreement provides for the commitment of the Parties to develop trade initiatives in the field of defence under conditions of mutual interest and industrial cooperation. The text states that the joint purchase of material of interest to the parties will be carried out in accordance with their national laws, in particular for Italy, in compliance with Law No 185 of 1990. Subsequent articles lay down rules on the security of classified information, on the principle of confidentiality, on professional secrecy and on the competence of national authorities. The economic burdens for Italy are quantified in about 4,000 euros every other year. In conclusion, it is proposed that the Assembly approve this measure.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-817.ana.u87	As you have not been included in the general discussion and as the representative of the Government does not intend to intervene in the reply, I inform you that the Presidency - and it is being distributed - has received the opinion of the 5th Permanent Commission on the draft law under consideration, which will be published in an annex to today's Report. We shall proceed to the vote on Rule 1. SANTANGELO (M5S). We also call for votes to be taken by simultaneous ballot by electronic means for subsequent articles. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Article 1. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the vote on Rule 2. I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request for a roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot, by electronic procedure, is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Rule 2. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the vote on Rule 3. I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request for a roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot, by electronic procedure, is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Rule 3. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the vote on Rule 4. I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request for a roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot, by electronic procedure, is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Rule 4. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the vote on Rule 5. I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request for a roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot, by electronic procedure, is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Rule 5. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B).
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-817.ana.u88	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-817.ana.u89	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-817.ana.u90	AMORUSO (ALA-SCLP). Madam President, in our examination we have a measure that goes hand in hand with what we shall examine immediately afterwards, of which I am rapporteur, and concerns Colombia. I just want to recall, in addition to the significance and importance of the two ratification measures, the situation in Colombia, in a very positive process, aimed at overcoming the old conflicts and the ancient situation of difficulty in relations with the guerrilla. We must not forget that another important moment will take place in September when the Holy Father visits Colombia. Therefore, according to the path taken by Colombia, we can only be in favour of the measure under consideration and the subsequent one.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-817.ana.u91	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-817.ana.u92	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-817.ana.u93	Cotti (M5S). Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, the Agreement with Colombia concerns a country that has through five decades of war, with a budget of 218,000 people killed, including many civilians. Colombia's Revolutionary Armed Forces (FARC) have seized 25,000 people, 11,000 have suffered the consequences of anti-personnel mines, 130,000 have suffered threats, some 75,000 have lost some good, 1,800 have suffered sexual violence and more than 7 million have been homeless. A little over a year has passed since the signing of the Agreement between the Revolutionary Armed Forces of Colombia and the Central Government, ending a conflict lasting fifty-two years; 7,000 guerrillas have begun the process of reintegration into society and the Government is progressively creating areas necessary to allow demilitarization, allowing guerrillas to deliver weapons. It is a process that has slowed down and takes time. In this context, an Agreement providing for cooperation in the military field and the consolidation of their defensive capacities, in order to carry out a stabilising action - as reported in the draft law - seems to stand in sharp contrast with the ongoing process of peace. Article 6 of the Agreement even extends cooperation to the acquisition of military endowments under joint production programmes. In this respect, the statements of the President of Colombia Santos should be resumed shortly before the signing of the Agreement with the FARC. War costs more than peace. We could have grown by two or three percent more each year in the last twenty-three years. For these reasons, I announce the contrary vote of the 5 Star Movement to the bill at our examination. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-817.ana.u94	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-817.ana.u95	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-817.ana.u96	Mr Verducci (PD). Madam President, this agreement dates back to 2010 and today, in the light of the important development of the situation in Colombia, it becomes further important. For this reason, I declare the Democratic Party's vote in favour of the measure we are considering.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-817.ana.u97	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-817.ana.u98	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-817.ana.u99	SANTANGELO (M5S). We call for the vote to be taken by simultaneous ballot by electronic means.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-817.ana.u100	I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I refer to the nominal vote by simultaneous ballot of the bill as a whole. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B).
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-817.ana.u101	The next item is the debate on draft law No 2184. The rapporteur, Senator Amoruso, requested authorisation to carry out the oral report. No comments were made and the request was accepted. I therefore call the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-817.ana.u102	Madam President, the draft law before the House brings the ratification of the Agreement signed in May 2013 between Italy and Colombia on police cooperation. It is recalled that Colombia has always been involved in countering drug trafficking and is currently committed to overcoming the ten-year internal conflict that has opposed the public authorities to the guerrillas of the Revolutionary Armed Forces of Colombia (FARC). This agreement follows the content of other bilateral agreements on police cooperation which have recently been examined by our Commission and this House. Again, the areas of cooperation between the Parties include, inter alia, transnational organised crime, drug trafficking, trafficking in persons, smuggling of migrants and arms, as well as economic crime. The text therefore defines the arrangements for bilateral cooperation, including the exchange of information and operational practices, measures for the implementation of joint operations and the exchange of experts. The following Articles govern the arrangements for requests for assistance and for their execution and cases in order to refuse such requests, which are attributable to situations detrimental to the human rights, sovereignty, security and public order of either party. A specific article, 7, is devoted to the limits on the use of personal data and classified information, while Articles 8 to 10 provide for the possibility of organising meetings and consultations between representatives of the competent authorities of the two parties, regulate the arrangements for the division of costs and costs of requests and provide for the use of Spanish and Italian as working languages. The economic charges for Italy are estimated at around 68,000 euros per year. The Agreement does not present any profiles of incompatibility with national legislation, Community law or other international obligations entered into by our country. For these reasons, the House is asked to approve this measure.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-817.ana.u103	I declare the general discussion open. He is registered to speak Senator Rossi Luciano. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-817.ana.u104	Madam President, I believe that the illustration just made by Mr Amoruso deserves particular attention because it concerns an important issue and country, a country that is apparently far away but in reality very close, in particular on the issues of security and defence. For this reason, I would like to call for more attention, in addition to declaring my total sharing, on a sensitive and important subject, which certainly deserves attention from this House.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-817.ana.u105	The general debate is closed. The rapporteur and the representative of the Government do not intend to intervene in the reply. I would like to say that the Presidency - and it is being distributed - has received the opinion of the 5th standing Commission on the draft law before us, which will be published in an annex to today's report. We shall proceed to the vote on Rule 1. SANTANGELO (M5S). We also call for votes to be taken by simultaneous ballot by electronic means for subsequent articles. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Article 1. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the vote on Rule 2. I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request for a roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot, by electronic procedure, is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Rule 2. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the vote on Rule 3. I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request for a roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot, by electronic procedure, is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Rule 3. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the vote on Rule 4. I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request for a roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot, by electronic procedure, is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Rule 4. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B).
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-817.ana.u106	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-817.ana.u107	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-817.ana.u108	STEFANI (LN-Aut). Madam President, we are talking about a situation, that of Colombia, which has presented in the last fifty years the difficulties that seemed truly insurmountable. These are disorders that, with great difficulty, have been overcome after almost fifty years. To a large extent, Colombia's serious problems in combating large-scale local organized crime, which specialises in drug trafficking management, are due to the great internal disorder. By now, we have all learned from the chronicles of past years the famous Medellin cartel, certainly the most internationally known of Colombian criminal groups. Colombia, therefore, has not only concluded a civil war, but has also managed to dismantle a strong internal criminal counterpower and is in an interesting path of growth, although unfortunately it remains a major producer of drugs and still hosts on its territory criminal partnerships with extensive international relations. This historical curriculum obviously makes bilateral cooperation very interesting also on the ground of police activities, which should take on the traditional aspects of exchanges of experience and information, using the visits of dedicated delegations, establishing direct connections and, above all, exploiting the channels offered by Interpol. Obviously, great weight will be given precisely to the specific aspect of the activity of contrast to the drug trafficking. Given the aims pursued and the continuing importance of combating international drug trade, the Lega Nord Group will vote in favour of this measure.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-817.ana.u109	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-817.ana.u110	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-817.ana.u111	BERTOROTTA (M5S). Madam President, with reference to Act No 2184, the 5 Star Movement Group will not fail to vote in favour. In fact, the Movement has always expressed its support for international agreements which seek to establish fruitful police collaborations. That said, in agreement with Colombia it was signed four years ago and it is difficult to understand such a monstrous delay, given the speed at which criminal organizations manage to evade controls. It is not my intention to dwell on the detailed analysis of the measure, but I note that the text we ratify seems to be drawn up by the method of copying-paste from the offices of our Ministry. In fact, the will to combat transnational organised crime and the production and illicit trafficking of drugs can be found in it. However, not a word is spent, not even in the illustrative report, on the situation of criminal organisations in the two countries. In fact, while aware of the regular repetitive drafting of agreements like this, it cannot fail to emphasize the total absence of references to the presence of numerous criminal associations of the mafia type in our country, dedicated, among other things, to the import of drugs, with particular regard to cocaine, produced in Colombia. Despite this, I repeat, the 5 Star Movement will vote in favour of this measure to give its support to the police forces engaged in the fight against crime and the sale of drugs, also international. [[Applause from Senator Donno.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-817.ana.u112	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-817.ana.u113	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-817.ana.u114	Sangalli (PD). Madam President, this is a measure that we strongly support, because it intervenes in a positive, but at the same time delicate, relationship with this country, as both the rapporteur and the subsequent speeches have pointed out. In drug-producing countries, Colombia is reported by all international organisations as one of the largest cocaine producers and a major participant in international drug trafficking. The fact that on the two shores of the ocean there are traffics and relationship modalities puts at the centre the need for a collaboration between our security and police services with those of Colombia, especially now that this country has reached a very difficult national pacification, which also depends much on the internal economic balance and the displacement of the Colombian economy on lawful activities, moving them from the illegal ones. For these reasons, the Democratic Party will vote in favour of the draft law under consideration.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-817.ana.u115	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-817.ana.u116	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-817.ana.u117	SANTANGELO (M5S). We call for the vote to be taken by simultaneous ballot by electronic means.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-817.ana.u118	I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I refer to the nominal vote by simultaneous ballot of the bill as a whole. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B).
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-817.ana.u119	The next item is the debate on draft law No 1828. The rapporteur, Senator Fattorini, requested authorisation to carry out the oral report. No comments were made and the request was accepted. I therefore call the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-817.ana.u120	Madam President, the House is called upon to examine the draft law ratifying a series of co-production agreements signed by Italy between 2007 and 2013 with Brazil, Croatia, Israel and Hungary. The agreements have a substantially similar content, albeit with some differences, and are all aimed at strengthening the development of cultural and commercial relations by facilitating co-productions of films and allowing access to the benefits provided by the different national production systems. The Agreement with Brazil, signed in 2008 and composed of 21 articles and an Annex, after defining the category of films in co-production and identifying the competent authorities for the application (for Italy the Directorate-General for Cinema of the Ministry of Cultural Heritage and Activities and Tourism), lists the conditions required for access to finance. The agreement also lays down rules on the approval of film projects, on shooting, on the financial contribution of co-producers and on international co-productions. A Joint Committee is also to be set up to monitor the application of the Agreement and respect for the numerical balance and the percentage of co-productions. The Agreement with Croatia, signed in September 2007 and composed of 23 articles and an Annex, is of similar content. The text also regulates multilateral productions, the hypothesis of twin co-productions and the presentation of works co-produced in international festivals. Again, it is envisaged that a Joint Committee will be set up to monitor the implementation of the agreement. The Agreement with Israel, signed in December 2013, also presents a similar overall facility. The text provides for funding for co-productions and requirements for obtaining co-productions, identifies the nationalities of the participants involved in film co-production and defines the types of languages eligible for co-productions. The Agreement also lays down the quotas to be observed in the financial contribution of co-producers, defines technical details of intellectual property rights and lays down rules on marketing. The Agreement with Hungary has more details. After defining the category of films in co-production and recognizing to them the benefits granted by the parties to their national films, it establishes the places of production of the films, the nationalities of the participants, the contribution of the co-producer of the two parties and the possibility of international co-productions. In addition, measures on the negatives and language versions of production, on the time limits for the balance of the minority co-producer's participation, on the distribution of revenue, including in the presence of a pool of markets, on the financial obligations of contracts between co-producers with regard to burden sharing. The draft law ratifying the Agreements consists of four articles, which form the basis respectively for the authorisation of ratification, order of execution, financial coverage and entry into force. The total costs resulting from the mission expenses of the Agreements under consideration are set at around EUR 16,000 per year, every four years. The Agreements do not have any profiles of incompatibility with national legislation, European Union law and other international obligations and are in line with the 1992 European Convention on Cinema Co-Production.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-817.ana.u121	As you have not been included in the general discussion and as the representative of the Government does not intend to intervene in the reply, I inform you that the Presidency - and it is being distributed - has received the opinion of the 5th Permanent Commission on the draft law under consideration, which will be published in an annex to today's Report. We shall proceed to the vote on Rule 1. SANTANGELO (M5S). We also call for votes to be taken by simultaneous ballot by electronic means for subsequent articles. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Article 1. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the vote on Rule 2. I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request for simultaneous voting, by electronic procedure, is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Rule 2. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the vote on Rule 3. I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request for simultaneous voting, by electronic procedure, is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Rule 3. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the vote on Rule 4. I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request for simultaneous voting, by electronic procedure, is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Rule 4. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B).
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-817.ana.u122	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-817.ana.u123	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-817.ana.u124	STEFANI (LN-Aut). Madam President, I declare the abstaining vote of the Lega Nord Group and ask for permission to deposit the written text of the speech. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. The Presidency shall authorise it accordingly.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-817.ana.u125	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-817.ana.u126	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-817.ana.u127	AMORUSO (ALA-SCLP). Madam President, this measure is important precisely because it is intended to develop cultural and commercial relations with the countries mentioned (Brazil, Croatia, Israel and Hungary) and it contains particular aspects that concern all the benefits provided by the different systems, which can possibly be taken into account in the various co-productions. For this reason, the ALA-SCLP Group will vote in favour.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-817.ana.u128	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-817.ana.u129	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-817.ana.u130	BERTOROTTA (M5S). Madam President, as unfortunately already pointed out during the ratification of the agreement between the European Union, Iraq and the Philippines, this draft law is the second case, in this parliamentary term, of multiple ratification. Apart from the heterogeneity or not of the content, we Members of Parliament are not allowed to express our will in the case of different opinions on the four agreements which are to be ratified. Despite this, since the agreements in title are aimed at creating an important regulatory framework for cultural and commercial relations between Italy and the contracting countries, we announce a favourable vote on this bill.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-817.ana.u131	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-817.ana.u132	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-817.ana.u133	Sangalli (PD). Madam President, we will, of course, vote in favour of this bill for two reasons, but by raising the emphasis that was now mentioned by Senator Bertorotta. They are agreements with different countries, within a unique scheme of play; they are important agreements in this case, because they are based on cooperation between countries in cultural production and, in particular, in the production of images of the countries themselves, which well represent national cultures and realities. These are, therefore, operations that have the general intention of putting countries in a position to get to know each other more and better and to have, among themselves, greater respect for each other's identities. However, it would perhaps be logical for such agreements to live within a framework of the cultural relations of our country with the countries with which we want to have this exchange and then be applied, from time to time, on the basis also of the evolution of international and cultural relations, the evolution of the cultural institutions of the individual countries and, in the case of cinematography, also of the evolution of the cinema culture of these countries. Our vote will therefore be in favour, with a call for attention, in the future, to give greater organicity to the cultural relationship between the different partners, all the more so at a time when, especially in Europe, there is a need to integrate more and to agglutinate better precisely through culture.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-817.ana.u134	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-817.ana.u135	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-817.ana.u136	SANTANGELO (M5S). We call for the vote to be taken by simultaneous ballot by electronic means.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-817.ana.u137	I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I refer to the nominal vote by simultaneous ballot of the bill as a whole. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B).
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-817.ana.u138	The next item is the debate on draft law No 2051. The rapporteur, Senator Sangalli, has requested authorisation to carry out the oral report. No comments were made and the request was accepted. I therefore call the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-817.ana.u139	Madam President, this understanding follows the typical model of agreements in this area and aims to establish the legal framework within which bilateral cooperation in the military and defence sectors can be developed, with the aim of strengthening relations between the two countries, strengthening their defensive capacities and stimulating their respective productive and commercial sectors. The content of the agreement is essentially similar to that which has just been examined with Colombia in terms of its military relationship. The agreement sets out first the guiding principles and the purpose of the agreement and then regulates general aspects of cooperation. Annual and multi-annual cooperation plans drawn up by the respective Ministries of Defence are planned to establish operational guidelines, as well as consultations between the parties to be held alternately in Libreville and Rome. Cooperation may develop in the fields of security and defence policy, humanitarian operations, training and training through mutual visits, exchange of experience, participation in training courses. Section III regulates the financial aspects of the Agreement, providing for expenditure within the competence of each Party. Sections IV and V regulate jurisdictional responsibilities and procedures for compensation for any damage caused by staff. The following Section VI regulates the possible cooperation in the field of defence materials, stating the categories of arms concerned, from ships to aircraft, up to firearms and electronic systems, explicitly excluding the instruments prohibited by international conventions, and the operational modalities for achieving them, establishing a general commitment to guarantee intellectual property. With regard to the reciprocal equipment of materials of the respective Armed Forces, the text of the agreement specifies that any re-export to third countries of acquired goods can be carried out only with the prior approval of the transferor party, in accordance with the principles of law n. 185 of 1990. Section VII lays down rules for the security of classified information. Sections VIII to XI govern the arrangements for resolving possible interpretative disputes, the date of entry into force of the text and its duration. The draft ratification law consists of five articles. The economic burdens for Italy are quantified in about 5,000 euros every other year. The agreement does not present any profiles of incompatibility with national legislation, Community law, or other international obligations entered into by our country. In conclusion, it is proposed that the Assembly approve this measure.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-817.ana.u140	I declare the general discussion open. He is registered to speak Senator Rossi Luciano. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-817.ana.u141	Madam President, I find the rapporteur, Mr Sangalli, very timely and precise. The subject of the agreement is the same as that with Colombia, as the rapporteur has rightly pointed out and concerns Gabon in this case. Of course, even in this case the delay seems quite serious: since 2011 many years have passed before ratification. It is an important area also in the possible future scenario, so we express a strong sharing on this topic, concerning the relations between Italy and Gabon. In that area of the world situations are developing of great criticality, so also in this perspective I believe that this ratification must be evaluated positively.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-817.ana.u142	The general debate is closed. The rapporteur and the representative of the Government do not intend to intervene in the reply. I would like to say that the Presidency - and it is being distributed - has received the opinion of the 5th standing Commission on the draft law before us, which will be published in an annex to today's report.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-817.ana.u143	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-817.ana.u144	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-817.ana.u145	ENDRIZZI (M5S). Madam President, I would ask you, please, to check the inserted cards.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-817.ana.u146	I ask the Senators Secretary to proceed with the withdrawal of the cards in the posts not occupied by colleagues. We shall now proceed to the vote on Rule 1. SANTANGELO (M5S). We also call for votes to be taken by simultaneous ballot by electronic means for subsequent articles. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). Secretary Senators did an accurate inspection. I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Article 1. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the vote on Rule 2. I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request for a roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot, by electronic procedure, is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Rule 2. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the vote on Rule 3. I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request for a roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot, by electronic procedure, is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Rule 3. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the vote on Rule 4. I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request for a roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot, by electronic procedure, is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Rule 4. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the vote on Rule 5. I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request for a roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot, by electronic procedure, is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Rule 5. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B).
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-817.ana.u147	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-817.ana.u148	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-817.ana.u149	STEFANI (LN-Aut). Madam President, I am voting in favour of the Lega Nord Group and ask for permission to give the floor. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-817.ana.u150	The Presidency shall authorise it accordingly.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-817.ana.u151	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-817.ana.u152	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-817.ana.u153	AMORUSO (ALA-SCLP). Madam President, the ALA-SCLP Group is also in favour of ratification. Gabon is one of the excellences of the African continent: a country very rich in natural resources. Among other things, Italy also has many commercial relations with this country, therefore intervening today also with regard to military and defence cooperation is a positive aspect.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-817.ana.u154	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-817.ana.u155	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-817.ana.u156	Cotti (M5S). Madam President, reading the report on this draft law, it is striking that among the aims indicated there is the intention to consolidate their defensive capacities, so Gabon should help to consolidate Italy's defensive capacities: interesting! The desire to achieve a stabilizing action of an area of particular strategic value and high political value is also affirmed: we are talking about Gabon. It is not understood how a Stabilisation Agreement can be a source of stabilisation which essentially limits cooperation to categories of equipment and means such as helicopters, tanks, firearms, medium and large arms, and their ammunition, bombs, mines, rockets, missiles, torpedoes, dusts and explosives (such as those listed in Section VI). Recent history teaches that the diversification and increase in the supply of arms to politically and economically unstable countries is not a solution to conflicts, if anything, the main cause. Let us now see who is doing this agreement with which we would like to ratify. The president of Gabon, Ali Bongo, whose family holds the entire wealth of the country, was re-elected in August 2016, with an advantage of less than 6,000 votes, achieved thanks to the fact that in a Province Bongo would obtain 95 percent of the votes, with a turnout of 99.9 percent: I miss in Bulgaria of the seventies! After his election as President, there should have been the election of Parliament, but the Constitutional Court postponed the elections, scheduled for 27 December, because there would be no money, which is instead there for the realization of military cooperation. Look at that. There's no money to make the election, but there's money to buy mines, bombs, rockets, missiles and so on. And then we invite African leaders to the Taormina G7 while we persevere in short-sighted and irresponsible politics to sell our weapons around the world, for the benefits of few, and then complain when we face the arrival of immigrants. And I address myself here to the League, which announced its vote in favour: well, we give money to Bongo for weapons; then, if we find ourselves, in a few years, with an avalanche of immigrants from Gabon who press on our coasts, let us not complain, because the instability caused us and continue to cause it, selling weapons around the world. It's time to stop. The 5 Star Movement announces its vote against. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-817.ana.u157	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-817.ana.u158	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-817.ana.u159	Mr Verducci (PD). Madam President, as the rapporteur said in his explanation of this measure, this is an Agreement between our Republic and the Government of the Gabonese Republic concerning cooperation in the military and defence fields. Gabon is a country that is going through a difficult political situation and this Agreement, which was signed in 2011 and which today it is right to ratify, can help the stabilisation of the Country by promoting also the path of national unification of the Country. This is the wish of the entire international community and it is our hope that this Republic will leave behind the risk of a civil war. Everything else and the controversy I have heard in this House does not apply to this measure. That is why, with the wishes I mentioned earlier, I am voting in favour of the Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-817.ana.u160	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-817.ana.u161	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-817.ana.u162	SANTANGELO (M5S). We call for the vote to be taken by simultaneous ballot by electronic means.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-817.ana.u163	I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I refer to the nominal vote by simultaneous ballot of the bill as a whole. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B).
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-817.ana.u164	We greet Dr Sharaf Resuan, who is the head of a delegation of the Syrian Refugee Society, of which he is President, who operates in Lebanon in a situation of great criticality. Welcome to the Senate. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-817.ana.u165	The next item is the debate on draft law No 2098. The rapporteur, Senator Zin, has requested authorisation to carry out the oral report. No comments were made and the request was accepted. I therefore call the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-817.ana.u166	Madam President, this House is called upon to examine the draft law ratifying and implementing the Defence Cooperation Agreement signed between Italy and Ecuador in November 2009. It is recalled that Ecuador is a country of almost 15 million inhabitants, close between the Pacific Ocean, Colombia and Peru, occupies an area of particular strategic value and high political value due to the national interests and international commitments made by our country on the South American continent. The Agreement aims to develop the bilateral relationship in the field of defence, consolidate their defensive capacities and determine positive effects in the productive and commercial sectors of the two countries. The document consists of 15 articles and a short preamble. The content of the Agreement is essentially similar to that of Peru, which will follow it. The cooperation activities are carried out by the Ministries of Defence of the two countries with the possibility to carry out visits of delegations for the preparation of supplementary reports. Cooperation will take place in the fields of policy, security and defence, military exercises and training and peace-building operations. With regard to cooperation in the field of arms, it is expected that the mutual supply may take place through direct cooperation between the parties or through private companies authorised by their respective governments. Articles 7 and 8 shall identify common activities in the area of defence industry, research and development activities and mutual assistance between the Parties. The subsequent articles govern the financial aspects of the Agreement and the processing of classified information. The draft law of ratification consists of five articles which have respectively on the authorisation of ratification, order of execution, financial coverage, the clause of invariance and the entry into force. The economic costs for Italy, for travel and mission expenses for the staff involved, are little more than 5,000 euros every other year. The Agreement has already been ratified by Ecuador and does not present any profiles of incompatibility with national legislation, Community law or other international obligations entered into by our country. I therefore propose that the House approve it.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-817.ana.u167	As you have not been included in the general discussion and as the representative of the Government does not intend to intervene in the reply, I inform you that the Presidency - and it is being distributed - has received the opinion of the 5th Permanent Commission on the draft law under consideration, which will be published in an annex to today's Report. We shall proceed to the vote on Rule 1. SANTANGELO (M5S). We also call for votes to be taken by simultaneous ballot by electronic means for subsequent articles. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Article 1. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the vote on Rule 2. I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request for simultaneous voting, by electronic procedure, is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Rule 2. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the vote on Rule 3. I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request for simultaneous voting, by electronic procedure, is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Rule 3. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the vote on Rule 4. I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request for simultaneous voting, by electronic procedure, is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Rule 4. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the vote on Rule 5. I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request for simultaneous voting, by electronic procedure, is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Rule 5. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B).
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-817.ana.u168	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-817.ana.u169	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-817.ana.u170	STEFANI (LN-Aut). Madam President, I am voting in favour of my Group and ask for permission to give the floor. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. The Presidency shall authorise it accordingly.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-817.ana.u171	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-817.ana.u172	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-817.ana.u173	AMORUSO (ALA-SCLP). Madam President, on behalf of my group I am voting in favour of this measure and the following. These measures are identical and concern cooperation in the field of defence cooperation and two South American countries: the measure in our examination concerns Ecuador and the subsequent Peru. For the meaning, the strategic value and political value that these countries have for our action in South America, we announce a favorable vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-817.ana.u174	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-817.ana.u175	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-817.ana.u176	SANTANGELO (M5S). Madam President, I should like to point out that my Group will vote against this measure, because it is yet another agreement that is being made with another country in order to increase military cooperation between states and, therefore, also the sale of arms. We believe that in this country the defence model and the foreign policy model must be completely reformed, based on ways completely opposed to these. What must be exported is not weapons, but, for example, made in Italy. Trade agreements must be signed to simplify exports and what Italy produces. That's not right. The current Government has no intention of doing so and, therefore, for these very simple reasons we will vote against it. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-817.ana.u177	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-817.ana.u178	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-817.ana.u179	Sangalli (PD). Madam President, for reasons which are clearly opposite, our Group will vote in favour of this draft law, as well as the next one. We have a particular interest in the development of the whole framework of Central America and Latin America, as we have already said in this House about other countries. The cooperation and cooperation that is taking place between countries, especially when democratic stabilisations are progressively taking place, must be followed by us with particular attention. Moreover, military and arms cooperation exists in all industrialised countries of the world. Our country is a country that, in some sectors, also has a high level of industrial specialisation, which I would like to consider. In other circumstances, some countries, for example the United Kingdom, now out of the European Union, have led entire naval and military parades to Latin America, simulating, as well as France, the invasion of islands but, in reality, making a great fair of armament. I would not understand precisely why a peaceful country like ours, which joins these countries in their processes of democratization, supported among other things by the fact that many Italian citizens reside there historically, must be called outside the agreements with these countries. Therefore, our vote will be in favour of this agreement.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-817.ana.u180	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-817.ana.u181	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-817.ana.u182	SANTANGELO (M5S). We call for the vote to be taken by simultaneous ballot by electronic means.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-817.ana.u183	I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I refer to the nominal vote by simultaneous ballot of the bill as a whole. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B).
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-817.ana.u184	There is a representation of students and teachers of the Istituto comprensivo "Giovanni XXIII" in Palagiano, in the province of Taranto, to whom we address our greetings. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-817.ana.u185	The next item is the debate on draft law No 2100. The rapporteur, Senator Zin, has requested authorisation to carry out the oral report. No comments were made and the request was accepted. I therefore call the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-817.ana.u186	Madam President, this House is called upon to examine the draft law ratifying and implementing the Memorandum of Understanding on cooperation in the field of security and defence and defence materials, signed in March 2010 between Italy and Peru. The Memorandum of Understanding, in renewing a previous bilateral document dating back to 2002, aims to establish the legal framework within which to develop cooperation between the two countries in the field of defence, with the aim of consolidating their respective defensive capacities and to induce positive indirect effects in some productive and commercial sectors of their economies. Composed of a preamble and six articles, the bilateral text provides first of all that cooperation must be based on the principle of reciprocity and be carried out in accordance with the legal systems of the two countries, as set out in Article 1. The same article also defines the obligations of assistance and technical-logistic support that Italy is required to ensure in relation to Italian systems, materials and means of origin. Article 2 requires additional protocols to indicate the practical arrangements for implementing the agreement. Article 3 establishes a Joint Committee composed of representatives of the two Ministries of Defence. The Commission, called upon to meet at least once a year, alternately in Italy and Peru, will be responsible for the implementation and supervision of the agreement. Article 4 defines the financial aspects of cooperation and the arrangements for the settlement of interpretative disputes and the implementation of the Agreement. Finally, Articles 5 and 6 govern the security aspects of classified information, the date of entry into force and the arrangements for its possible denunciation or revision. The draft ratification law consists of five articles which have, respectively, the authorisation, ratification, order of execution and financial coverage. The economic burden is estimated at around EUR 22,000 per alternate year for the mission expenses of the members of the Joint Defence and Security Committee. The Agreement does not present any profiles of incompatibility with national law, Community law and other international obligations entered into by our country. In conclusion, Madam President, I propose that the House approve this measure.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-817.ana.u187	I declare the general discussion open. He is registered to speak Senator Rossi Luciano. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-817.ana.u188	Madam President, I too would like to draw the attention of my fellow Members to this area of the world where our country has long been working in the best way, giving it attention, cooperation and cooperation. It is an important theme and, contrary to what Senator Santangelo said just now, Made in Italy has certainly gained attention and credibility in the world and not only in the security and defence sector, where in fact, even with Peru, we want to continue to develop positive and collaborative relationships. Nobody offends Italian work and - as the rapporteur, Mr Sangalli said well - there is in fact a great Made in Italy that the world recognizes for credibility and history, which is not only related to fashion but also to the security and defence sector, of which we Italians must be proud.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-817.ana.u189	The general debate is closed. The rapporteur and the representative of the Government do not intend to intervene in the reply. I would like to say that the Presidency - and it is being distributed - has received the opinion of the 5th standing Commission on the draft law before us, which will be published in an annex to today's report. We shall proceed to the vote on Rule 1. SANTANGELO (M5S). We also call for votes to be taken by simultaneous ballot by electronic means for subsequent articles. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Article 1. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the vote on Rule 2. I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request for a roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot, by electronic procedure, is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Rule 2. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the vote on Rule 3. I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request for a roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot, by electronic procedure, is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Rule 3. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the vote on Rule 4. I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request for a roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot, by electronic procedure, is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Rule 4. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the vote on Rule 5. I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request for a roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot, by electronic procedure, is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Rule 5. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B).
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-817.ana.u190	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-817.ana.u191	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-817.ana.u192	STEFANI (LN-Aut). Madam President, I am voting in favour of this measure by the Lega Nord Group. I would also ask for permission to hand over the text of my speech, so that it can be annexed to the Minutes of today's sitting. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. The Presidency shall authorise it accordingly.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-817.ana.u193	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-817.ana.u194	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-817.ana.u195	MARTON (M5S). Madam President, I too will ask for permission to hand over the text of my speech to be annexed to the report, but I would like to make a very brief point for the Presidency, for Senator Luciano Rossi and for Senator Sangalli. We are a strange country: when it is said that the country should develop certain industries and sectors, it is automatically against something else. So we cannot afford to say that in Peru perhaps more would be needed, as a result of the flood at the end of March, means other than weapons which are immediately considered contrary to this ratification on the sale of arms. We are absolutely against the sale of arms and we will reiterate it in all appropriate locations, for the sake of heaven: we are against the sale of weapons in the various countries of the world. But we are not opposed, regardless, in all areas. We are saying another thing: we believe that politics should be of a different kind. In Peru there are different needs: we develop different industrial collaborations and we do not focus exclusively on the security and defence sector, because there are also other sectors to invest in. They're developing subways - I'm addressing Senator Rossi - and pipelines. Why do we not focus on these areas but only on defence? Can you explain to me why we have to make an agreement exclusively on security and defence? We are making agreements "gov to gov" exclusively for Finmeccanica and Leonardo. Let's face it! Do we have the courage to say that? There are other industries that will go autonomously to invest for the development of Peru, without the support of the Government, without that system Country that fills your mouth so much, while only a precise industry will be able to do business: let's say it without being hypocrites and let's go on like this! I vote against the 5 Star Movement. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-817.ana.u196	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-817.ana.u197	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-817.ana.u198	Sangalli (PD). Madam President, if we make a cooperation and military supply agreement, it is not that we have restricted all our relations with Peru, a country with which we have an intense relationship. [[Comments of Senator Marton]] You must go and say these things to Finmeccanica and Oto Melara. He did well to quote them, because they must remember them in the Val Trompia and in many other places. [[Applause from the PD Group]] They must remember in many places what contribution you give to Italian research and to our country. [[Senator Santangelo's comments]] But I would like to reassure Senator Santangelo: there is no need to be so effervescent, we can stay a little calmer, especially when we are talking about a country like Peru. First we talked about another country in Latin America and only last week our Group asked the Government for a response, which we are waiting for, on the topic of Venezuela. We are not at all far from the development of these countries, from the collaboration with them and the growth of their democracy, their institutions, from the integration between the different ethnic groups present in these countries. However, if there is a political, military and strategic relationship, it is not written anywhere, except in propaganda sheets, that such relations exclude the overall relationship we have with these countries. We are the most committed country in the European Union in Latin America and in the stabilisation and peace processes of those countries. I therefore voted in favour of the Group's draft law in our examination. [[Applause from the PD Group]] CASINI (AP-CpE). Bravo!
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-817.ana.u199	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-817.ana.u200	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-817.ana.u201	SANTANGELO (M5S). We call for the vote to be taken by simultaneous ballot by electronic means.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-817.ana.u202	I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I refer to the nominal vote by simultaneous ballot of the bill as a whole. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B).
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-817.ana.u203	The next item is the debate on draft law No 2182. The rapporteur, Senator Amoruso, requested authorisation to carry out the oral report. No comments were made and the request was accepted. I therefore call the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-817.ana.u204	Madam President, this understanding is aimed at strengthening the cooperation between our country and the authorities in Skopje on security matters, committing the parties to assist each other in combating a wide range of crimes related to international organized crime. Macedonia, in fact, because of its geographical location in the heart of the Balkans, is a privileged crossroads of international drug trafficking and today especially of migrants and is a place of interest for international criminal organisations. The agreement identifies as competent authorities the Department of Public Security of the Ministry of Interior for Italy and the Ministry of Interior for the Republic of Macedonia. Among the areas of operational cooperation are organised crime, illegal production and drug trafficking, trafficking in human beings and arms trafficking. The document also sets out how cooperation can take place, including information exchange, staff training and legislative and scientific instruments to combat crime. Among the further arrangements for cooperation, Article 3 also mentions the use of special investigative techniques, such as controlled deliveries and undercover operations. The agreement regulates the procedures for the execution of requests for assistance between the two countries, with particular attention to the limits related to the use of information and documents. The Agreement also provides for meetings and consultations between representatives of the competent authorities to assess the implementation of the Agreement, and identifies the arrangements for allocating expenditure between the two countries. The draft law consists of four articles concerning the authorization to ratify, the order of execution, the financial coverage and the entry into force of the text. The total costs are defined in little more than 152,000 euros per year, ascribable to mission expenses and coordination and training activities. The analysis of the compatibility of the intervention does not indicate any constitutional problems or conflicts with the European Union's legal system. The Agreement is also compatible with Italy's other international obligations, starting with the provisions of the conventions on drugs, the conventions against terrorism adopted by the United Nations and the convention against transnational organised crime. For all these reasons, it is proposed that the Assembly approve this measure.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-817.ana.u205	As you have not been included in the general discussion and as the representative of the Government does not intend to intervene in the reply, I inform you that the Presidency - and it is being distributed - has received the opinion of the 5th Permanent Commission on the draft law under consideration, which will be published in an annex to today's Report. I put to the vote Rule 1 is approved. We shall now proceed to the vote on Rule 2. SANTANGELO (M5S). We also call for votes to be taken by simultaneous ballot by electronic means for subsequent articles. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Rule 2. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the vote on Rule 3. I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request for a roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot, by electronic procedure, is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Rule 3. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the vote on Rule 4. I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request for a roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot, by electronic procedure, is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Rule 4. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B).
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-817.ana.u206	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-817.ana.u207	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-817.ana.u208	STEFANI (LN-Aut). Madam President, I preannounce the North-League Group's vote in favour of the measure we are considering. I would also ask for permission to attach my speech to the Minutes of today's sitting. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. The Presidency shall authorise it accordingly.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-817.ana.u209	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-817.ana.u210	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-817.ana.u211	BERTOROTTA (M5S). Madam President, my fellow Senators, I wanted to say a few words about Macedonia, which, like the other Republics created by the Dayton Agreement, is at the heart of important processes that destabilise political and social life and add to the ethnic problems created by the ethnic division of the territory, seen as the only solution at the end of the conflict in the Balkans. Since then, in that once stable area, even if poor, we have witnessed an uninterrupted succession of ethnic claims that have found recognition in the division of the territory into smaller and increasingly ethnically "pure" cantons. According to journalistic sources, the city of Ferizaj, on the border with Macedonia, has become a nerve center for the recruitment of suicide bombers, while for years the Islamic Relief NGO has recruited children orphaned by the war to carry out suicide attacks. In this context of tension, Macedonia experienced its September 11, with the terrorist attack in Kumanovo in May 2015, an incursion from Kosovo of about fifty heavily armed men caused a real war with 22 deaths, dozens of wounded and heavy material damage to the city. I therefore expect, Madam President, that this agreement will have a very deep line of cooperation with the Macedonian authorities on possible ways of connecting these terrorists with Italy, terrorists who are also responsible for the trafficking of human beings and weapons to and from Europe. Another important aspect that I want to stress is arms trafficking. After years of war, the Balkans are full of weapons that end up in conflict zones, such as Syria and Iraq. It is easy to imagine how the presence of Islamic radicalism influences some routes, managing to arm extremist Islamic militias in Syria and Iraq. The problem is so serious that, in February 2014, it gave rise to a new form of cooperation between the Republics of Albania, Bosnia-Herzegovina, Kosovo, Macedonia and Serbia, which formed a group of experts on arms trafficking. The organizational capacity of these groups, which have acquired a real know-how, represents a huge danger for Italy and Europe, as, if not greater, than that represented by ISIS in Libya and which is widely underestimated. On the migrant side Macedonia began the construction of a separation grid with the Greek border. A nationalist policy and a series of agreements with neighbouring countries have fomented a climate of emergency that has led to the closure of the borders towards migrants going to Germany, Denmark and Norway. The Macedonian border is in fact a phase of pre-selection of Syrians, Iraqis and Afghans, who can continue, with many limitations, towards the final goals. The implementation of the information flow between our forces of order and those Macedonians can certainly constitute a further element of control over those who try to enter Italy. However, there remains the node of expenditure. Similar agreements in other contexts, even far away, have resulted in minor coverage. For example, the coverage of the Italian-Cuba Police Cooperation Agreement, despite the distance and significant cost of air tickets, cost about 84,000 thousand euros, compared to almost 160,000 euros of this mission. This figure seems to us to be very excessive, and I believe that significant savings can be made on what is planned. However, I announce the favorable vote of the 5 Star Movement on this Agreement.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-817.ana.u212	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-817.ana.u213	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-817.ana.u214	Sangalli (PD). Madam President, I am voting in favour of the Group of the Party of European Socialists.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-817.ana.u215	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-817.ana.u216	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-817.ana.u217	MARTON (M5S). We call for simultaneous ballots to be carried out by electronic means.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-817.ana.u218	I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I refer to the nominal vote by simultaneous ballot of the bill as a whole. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B).
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-817.ana.u219	The next item is the debate on draft law No 2183. The rapporteur, Senator Fattorini, requested authorisation to carry out the oral report. No comments were made and the request was accepted. I therefore call the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-817.ana.u220	Madam President, this agreement largely follows the similar measures that have just been examined. It consists of a preamble and twelve articles, and aims to establish the legal framework within which to develop bilateral cooperation between the Armed Forces of the two countries. The aim is also to induce positive indirect effects in some productive and commercial sectors of the two countries and to exert a stabilizing action for the entire region of East Africa, supporting also activities of contrast to marine piracy. The text regulates the general aspects of cooperation and provides for it to develop on the basis of annual and multiannual plans drawn up by the Parties. The fields of cooperation include, inter alia, security and defence policy, logistical support and the acquisition of goods and services, training and training, and military health. The subsequent articles regulate the financial aspects of the Agreement, matters relating to jurisdiction and the modalities for compensation for any damage caused by the personnel of the parties in relation to the exercise rendered. It also regulates possible cooperation in the field of defence materials, with the explicit commitment of the parties not to re-export the material acquired without a prior approval of the transferor party, with the aim of rationalising controls and ensuring the protection of intellectual property, including patents. The bill calculates the economic costs in about 4,000 euros to alternate years, attributable to mission expenses.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-817.ana.u221	As you have not been included in the general discussion and as the representative of the Government does not intend to intervene in the reply, I inform you that the Presidency - and it is being distributed - has received the opinion of the 5th Permanent Commission on the draft law under consideration, which will be published in an annex to today's Report. We shall proceed to the vote on Rule 1. SANTANGELO (M5S). We also call for votes to be taken by simultaneous ballot by electronic means for subsequent articles. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Article 1. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the vote on Rule 2. I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request for simultaneous voting, by electronic procedure, is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Rule 2. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the vote on Rule 3. I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request for simultaneous voting, by electronic procedure, is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Rule 3. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the vote on Rule 4. I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request for simultaneous voting, by electronic procedure, is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Rule 4. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the vote on Rule 5. I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request for simultaneous voting, by electronic procedure, is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Rule 5. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B).
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-817.ana.u222	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-817.ana.u223	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-817.ana.u224	STEFANI (LN-Aut). Madam President, in announcing the vote in favour of the Group of the North Legacy, I ask the Presidency to give the written text of the speech. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. The Presidency shall authorise it accordingly.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-817.ana.u225	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-817.ana.u226	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-817.ana.u227	AMORUSO (ALA-SCLP). Madam President, the vote of the ALA Group - Civic Choice for the Liberal and Popular Constitution will be in favour. I would just like to remind you that Mozambique has a great strategic value in the African area in which it is located and that Italy has always contributed to its process of evolution. I remember the dramatic civil war, the period when there was a presidential government and - today - the even more democratic evolution. For these reasons, the Group to which I belong can only support the ratification of this Agreement.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-817.ana.u228	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-817.ana.u229	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-817.ana.u230	Cotti (M5S). Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, the agreement with Mozambique that we are about to ratify, alongside the pursuit of objectives such as participation in operations to support humanitarian peace, is essentially military cooperation. According to data from the International Monetary Fund, in terms of GDP per capita, the country ranks at one hundred and seventy-sixth in a list of 185 countries. In 2016, the growth of the economy, which also had a positive sign, reached the lowest point recorded in the 2000s. In particular, in April 2016, it emerged that the previous Mozambican government had contracted unreported debts, unbeknownst to Parliament, for about 2 billion euros, equal to 20% of GDP, thus causing a significant increase in the public deficit which, according to the World Bank, has reached 130% of GDP. This situation reminds us a lot of our country, only that Mozambique has arrived in a number of years far less. The country was scourged by the long period of civil war and, despite the peace agreements of 1992, in 2013 clashes resumed due to unresolved issues in the process of national reconciliation. Moreover, according to Caritas Italiana, many cases of death continue to occur in prisons, most of them due to illness, poor hygiene, lack of drinking water and adequate nutrition, poor health care and various other problems. In this context of the country's obvious inability to secure basic social rights, Article 6 of the Agreement under consideration, which regulates cooperation in the field of defence materials, as usual torpedoes, missiles, mines and so on, is even more surreal. This forecast seems frankly disproportionate to face the threat of piracy and suggests - if anything - yet another opportunity of profit for the Italian defence sector. Reading the text of the Agreement comes back to mind the words of Pope Francis: the day when arms companies will finance hospitals to cure children mutilated by their bombs, the system will have reached its climax; this capitalism continues to produce waste that it would then want to cure. Today we are faced with a choice: to be the perfect gear of an economy that kills, or to become that grain of sand that blocks this logic of perverse development. On the basis of these reflections, I preannounce the vote against the 5 Star Movement Parliamentary Group to the measure under consideration. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-817.ana.u231	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-817.ana.u232	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-817.ana.u233	Sangalli (PD). Madam President, I rise to vote in favour of the Democratic Party Group on this bill and to remind you that Mozambique is an African country with very high problems, of which those mentioned are only one part: there is a very high infant mortality and a chronic lack of support structures for the weaker population. Our country - I would like to remind you - is also in Mozambique not only to make military agreements, but also to support from a humanitarian point of view, with various non-governmental organizations, the people of Mozambique. I think that we must pay particular attention to this country, as well as to many countries in the Central African area, from which the wave of stronger pressure starts towards arrivals that can guarantee the life, survival and civil dignity of the populations, as well as the necessary services from the point of view of maintenance, especially of the younger population. 11:45 a.m. (Follow Sangalli). There's something I'd like to say about a country like this. In Mozambique and Central African countries we have very low survival rates and life expectancy. In fact, when a person reaches twenty-five or thirty years he tends not to die more easily than in our country, but he manages to age as much as here; those who die in these countries and who lower life expectancy are children; there is a very high rate of infant mortality, in a population that is deprived of health care and vaccinations necessary to allow children to overcome the most critical phase of their lives, which is the one under two years. For our part there is a general cooperation with these countries and the Agreement under consideration is part of that general cooperation.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-817.ana.u234	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-817.ana.u235	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-817.ana.u236	SANTANGELO (M5S). We call for the vote to be taken by simultaneous ballot by electronic means.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-817.ana.u237	I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I refer to the nominal vote by simultaneous ballot of the bill as a whole. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B).
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-817.ana.u238	The next item is the debate on draft law No 2673. The rapporteur, Senator Corsini, asked for permission to carry out the oral report. No comments were made and the request was accepted. I therefore call the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-817.ana.u239	Mr President, the Protocol before us today completes the provisions of the Unified Court Agreement, which we approved last year under Law No 216, governing the aspects of tax privileges and immunity from the courts for the various courts of the Court of First Instance, which are currently provided for in France, Germany, the United Kingdom and Luxembourg. Composed of a preamble and 19 articles, the Protocol provides for the inviolability of the premises, archives and documents of the Court of First Instance, as well as immunity from the jurisdiction of its assets and financial resources. The text also stipulates that immunities shall be extended to the members of the administrative, budgetary and advisory committees and to their acts and documents. The Court of First Instance's tax relief scheme includes exemption from all direct taxes and VAT, but not from taxes which constitute the consideration of public services. With regard to the privileges and immunities of judges and chancellors, the international document refers to the Protocol on the privileges and immunities of the European Union. Similar immunities and privileges are also granted to the remaining staff, even with the possibility of the States Parties being able to limit them for staff already permanently resident in their territory. The Protocol also provides that the States concerned shall take the necessary measures to facilitate access, residence and removal from their territory of the staff of the court and of the persons summoned or summoned before it. The draft law of ratification consists of three articles which form the basis respectively for the authorization of ratification, the order of execution and the entry into force of the text. There are no charges for our country. The Protocol does not present any profiles of incompatibility with national legislation, EU law and international conventions to which Italy is a party. In conclusion, it is proposed that the Assembly approve this Protocol.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-817.ana.u240	As you have not been included in the general discussion and as the representative of the Government does not intend to intervene in the reply, I inform you that the Presidency - and it is being distributed - has received the opinion of the 5th Permanent Commission on the draft law under consideration, which will be published in an annex to today's Report. We shall proceed to the vote on Rule 1. SANTANGELO (M5S). We also call for votes to be taken by simultaneous ballot by electronic means for subsequent articles. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Article 1. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B).
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-817.ana.u241	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-817.ana.u242	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-817.ana.u243	ENDRIZZI (M5S). Mr President, I would like to ask you whether it is possible to check the cards, because there are a number of them in various empty benches.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-817.ana.u244	Colleagues, give us a hand so we can avoid the intervention of the Secretary Senators. (The inserted cards that do not correspond to present senators are removed). We shall now proceed to the vote on Rule 2. I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request for simultaneous voting, by electronic procedure, is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Rule 2. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). Senator Rossi, in your line there is an excess of cards: there are three and you are one. Senator Azzollini, there are two too many in your line and two more behind you, please give a hand. (The cards are removed.) We shall now proceed to the vote on Rule 3. I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request for simultaneous voting, by electronic procedure, is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Rule 3. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B).
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-817.ana.u245	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-817.ana.u246	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-817.ana.u247	STEFANI (LN-Aut). Mr President, considering the subject and the full sharing on our part with regard to this Protocol on the immunity of the offices of the Unified Patent Court, we are voting in favour. I ask for permission to submit the written text of my speech. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. The Presidency shall authorise it accordingly.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-817.ana.u248	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-817.ana.u249	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-817.ana.u250	AMORUSO (ALA-SCLP). Mr President, I am also voting in favour of this measure on behalf of the ALA Group. We know the importance of the Unified Patent Court, precisely to guarantee and protect patents issued under the Munich Convention. This ratification today completes the provisions of the agreement on tax privileges and immunity of seats.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-817.ana.u251	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-817.ana.u252	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-817.ana.u253	PETROCELLI (M5S). Mr President, I would like to refute some of the points made by the rapporteur and his previous speakers. I understand the importance of this measure and I understand some of the reasons put forward in this House for the vote in favour. The recognition of functional immunity has been recalled as relevant and necessary to ensure the autonomy of judgement and impartiality of the patents of this unified patent court, to be able to protect the independence of the structure and its staff, to offer the necessary protection to documents and procedural documents. I understand that this is a protocol concerning the immunities of the Unified Patent Court, which adopts the rules on immunity from jurisdiction and tax privileges. What we could not endorse by a vote in favour - and we will therefore vote against the ratification of the implementation of this Protocol - is precisely the fact, as mentioned in the content of the Protocol to Article 4, that the system of privileges and immunities applicable to officials of the European Union applies in this resolution. Now, instead of proceeding on the contrary, that is to say withdrawing some of these privileges and immunities, as should be the case with European Union officials, we are going to add a further element to this regime, which would not really be acceptable or justifiable. For this reason, I am voting against the measure.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-817.ana.u254	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-817.ana.u255	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-817.ana.u256	Sangalli (PD). Mr President, we shall vote in favour of this measure. The unified patent court is an achievement which has been affirmed over time and which has been of particular importance for Italy. Italy has one of the highest prospects for innovation in Europe. It is the second European industrial country and, however, from the point of view of patent law (from the amount of patents filed, from the use of European patenting and from the use of EU offices to guarantee our inventiveness and our businesses) is one of the countries that most need to be protected and protected within the European Union. The productions on which Italy insinuates its innovation are at a very high technological level, in highly competitive sectors; therefore, having a court that does not enjoy specific prerogatives, but is placed in the condition to exercise its function in a completely autonomous way, to absolute guarantee of the different subjects in the field, makes us think of how much there is the need for us to mature from the point of view of our industrial culture, as well as of the democratic culture, in order to protect Italian productions, the Italian inventiveness. Mr President, Made in Italy, Italian food production, technical innovation, automatic machines, our manufacturing industry, which needs to be protected at European level, compared to countries that play their part with greater determination in the European Union, are issues that we particularly care about. The autonomy of this court and the extension to the members of the patent court of prerogatives that fully safeguard their autonomy is, in our opinion, a positive result, even if we look at it from the point of view of our national interest. I therefore declare the Democratic Party's vote in favour. [[Applause from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-817.ana.u257	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-817.ana.u258	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-817.ana.u259	SANTANGELO (M5S). We call for the vote to be taken by simultaneous ballot by electronic means.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-817.ana.u260	I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I refer to the nominal vote by simultaneous ballot of the bill as a whole. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B).
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-817.ana.u261	The next item is the debate on draft law No 2674. The rapporteur, Senator Verducci, has requested authorisation to carry out the oral report. No comments were made and the request was accepted. I therefore call the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-817.ana.u262	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the Common Fund for basic products has been covering raw materials and the intergovernmental financial body, which has been in operation since 1989, which wants to favour developing countries producing raw materials and basic products. The task of this Fund is to finance pilot projects, the aim of which is to improve the quality and innovation of the production and trade of basic products, in order to facilitate access to the market of the producing countries. Today we welcome some changes to this agreement; those we are considering today are designed to allow the financial institution to adapt to the global economic scenario, as it has evolved over the past thirty years. Therefore, the main objective is to allow the Fund to raise resources from the donor community on a voluntary basis, since in the meantime Member States' contributions have been exhausted. Among the main objectives was to promote the development of basic products and to contribute to sustainable social, economic and environmental development. So the scope and social relapse of this measure are very important. A number of new functions are envisaged, including that of being able to mobilise resources and to act as a service provider. It is also extended to any intergovernmental organisation, and not only to those involved in regional economic integration, the possibility of becoming a member of the Fund. I would like to point out, Mr President, that the Fund is based in Amsterdam and that 103 countries and 10 international institutions (including the European Union and the African Union) belong to it. Italy, which ratified this Agreement in 1984, is the eighth donor country and has been actively involved in its activities ever since. In conclusion, Mr President, I would like to say that in terms of financial resources there is a more stringent procedure for increasing capital shares and the possibility is transferred to the Board of Governors to decide by qualified majority on the payment of the capital shares subscribed by the members at the time of accession. There are no charges for our country, because, as I said before, there are no compulsory contributions and a potential burden for the public budget is eliminated. For this reason too, especially because of the impact so important to help the productive potential and therefore the social development of the producer countries, I would ask the House to approve this measure.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-817.ana.u263	As you have not been included in the general discussion and as the representative of the Government does not intend to intervene in the reply, I inform you that the Presidency - and it is being distributed - has received the opinion of the 5th Permanent Commission on the draft law under consideration, which will be published in an annex to today's Report. We shall proceed to the vote on Rule 1. Verification of SANTANGELO (M5S) quorum. We're asking for a quorum check. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators, by electronic procedure. (The request is supported). I therefore call on the senators to make their presence known by electronic means. (Follows the quorum check.) The Senate has a quorum. Resumption of the debate on the draft law No 2674 PRESIDENT. I put to the vote Rule 1. It's approved. We shall now proceed to the vote on Rule 2. SANTANGELO (M5S). We also call for simultaneous ballots to be carried out by electronic means in the following article. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Rule 2. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the vote on Rule 3. I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request for simultaneous voting, by electronic procedure, is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Rule 3. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B).
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-817.ana.u264	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-817.ana.u265	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-817.ana.u266	STEFANI (LN-Aut). Mr President, by announcing the North-League Group's vote in favour of this ratification, I would ask that the text of my speech be annexed to the Reports of today's sitting. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. The Presidency shall authorise it accordingly.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-817.ana.u267	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-817.ana.u268	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-817.ana.u269	BERTOROTTA (M5S). Mr President, the primary aim of the Common Fund for basic products is to consolidate the socio-economic development of developing countries and less advanced countries producing raw materials, through the financing or co-financing of pilot projects in the field of raw materials for the improvement of the production and trade of basic products. The amendments that constitute the content of the act that we are about to ratify have become necessary to enable the Fund to find resources from donor communities on a voluntary basis, as Member States' contributions have been exhausted. The latter, including Italy, had shown that further contributions were not available in the absence of a comprehensive reform of the Fund. In order to allow this to happen, I am voting in favour of my Group's ratification of our examination.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-817.ana.u270	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-817.ana.u271	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-817.ana.u272	Sangalli (PD). Mr President, I declare the Democratic Party's vote in favour of ratifying our examination. [[Applause from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-817.ana.u273	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-817.ana.u274	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-817.ana.u275	ENDRIZZI (M5S). Mr President, the misconception which I have already pointed out twice quietly continues and on which I am now spending an extra word. There are still unattended cards on the desks. [[Comments from the PD Group.]] I also doubt that electronic voting has just been authorised by the balls and not by the people.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-817.ana.u276	Let's do a quick check on the inserted cards.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-817.ana.u277	[[Senator D'Anna's comments.]] Senator Rizzotti, which line are you sitting in? [[Comments of Senator Rizzotti.]] You can remove that card, please. ENDRIZZI (M5S). Next to Senator Milo. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator Milo, can you give us a hand? [[Senator Milo's comments.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-817.ana.u278	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-817.ana.u279	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-817.ana.u280	SANTANGELO (M5S). We call for the vote to be taken by simultaneous ballot by electronic means.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-817.ana.u281	I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I refer to the nominal vote by simultaneous ballot of the bill as a whole. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B).
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-817.ana.u282	The next item is the debate on draft law No 2709. The rapporteur, Senator Fattorini, requested authorisation to carry out the oral report. No comments were made and the request was accepted. I therefore call the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-817.ana.u283	Mr President, ratification concerns the amendment to Article 124 of the Statute of the International Criminal Court - a very important issue - adopted in The Hague by resolution of 26 November 2015. As you know, the Court is the first permanent international criminal jurisdiction, and it is competent to judge on major crimes of international importance, from genocide to crimes against humanity to war crimes. The Statute of the Court, adopted in Rome in July 1998, entered into force in 2002. To date 124 countries have joined the Court. Unfortunately, some very important states remain outside, including the three permanent non-European members of the UN Security Council (very important countries such as the United States, Russia and China) and other important and populous states such as India, Indonesia and Pakistan. Recently several countries have severely criticized the work of the Court, announcing the abandonment or, even, abandoning it truly. At the end of 2016, South Africa, Burundi and Gambia formally notified their withdrawal from the Court. Fortunately, this phenomenon has been reduced. In Gambia the decision to leave the Statute was revoked in February this year by the new President, while in South Africa the denunciation of the Treaty was blocked by the Supreme Court, because there had been no vote by Parliament. The fact remains that a taboo has been broken: the exit from the Court has become a concrete prospect for governments critical of its actions or, more simply, interested in guaranteeing a greater margin of impunity. The main regional organisation, the African Union, has also intervened on this issue in an ambivalent way. There are therefore several reasons for concern over the continuation of the Court's activities. For this reason, too, it is important that the measure under consideration is rapidly approved, even if only to reaffirm its attachment to this international institution. The amendment of the Statute of the Court, which we are examining today, is in fact very marginal, because it provides for the deletion of Article 124, which currently provides for a clause of "out-out" (i.e. "renunciation" or "exclusion"). To date, a State that becomes part of the Statute may suspend for a period of seven years the jurisdiction of the Court, but only for war crimes possibly committed by its own citizens or on its own territory. With the introduction of this amendment, this option will cease; the signatory States will therefore be obliged to fully accept the jurisdiction of the international body and the State will no longer allow any exceptions or reservations to the criminal liability for war crimes. It is hardly appropriate to recall that the provision under consideration was inserted, at the Rome diplomatic conference in 1998, as a compromise formula to facilitate the greater number of accessions by States. In fact, its effectiveness has been very doubtful, and in practice only two countries, France and Colombia, have made use of this clause. The bill of ratification of the international document consists of 3 articles. Of course, there are no financial effects. In conclusion, I propose the adoption of the bill by the Assembly.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-817.ana.u284	As you have not been included in the general discussion and as the representative of the Government does not intend to intervene in the reply, I inform you that the Presidency - and it is being distributed - has received the opinion of the 5th Permanent Commission on the draft law under consideration, which will be published in an annex to today's Report. We shall proceed to the vote on Rule 1. SANTANGELO (M5S). We also call for votes to be taken by simultaneous ballot by electronic means for subsequent articles. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators, by electronic procedure. (The request is supported). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Article 1. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the vote on Rule 2. I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request for simultaneous voting, by electronic procedure, is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Rule 2. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the vote on Rule 3. I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request for simultaneous voting, by electronic procedure, is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Rule 3. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B).
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-817.ana.u285	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-817.ana.u286	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-817.ana.u287	STEFANI (LN-Aut). Mr President, when I ask for permission to hand over the text of my speech, I announce the abstaining vote of the Group of the North Legacy on the measure. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. The Presidency shall authorise it accordingly.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-817.ana.u288	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-817.ana.u289	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-817.ana.u290	PETROCELLI (M5S). Mr President, we recognise the effectiveness of the proposed amendment. Announcement, therefore, the favorable vote of the 5 Star Movement Group.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-817.ana.u291	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-817.ana.u292	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-817.ana.u293	Sangalli (PD). Mr President, I announce that the Group of the Party of European Socialists will vote in favour of this measure, on which the rapporteur, Senator Fattorini, has produced the report. I would like to point out that we are faced with one of the most delicate international bodies, especially in stages such as the one we are going through, where in many parts of the world, even if we do not leave the International Criminal Court in The Hague, systems and regimes tend to be established which very often prescind first from respect for democratic freedoms, then from respect for parliamentary freedoms, as happened in the case of Venezuela, and then from respect for freedom of the press and fundamental freedoms, to finally reach the persecutions of oppositions. While this general approximation, which leads to excessive simplification of politics, calls into question, as they have also done, very authoritative representatives of great powers, the role of international bodies in the care and safeguarding of peace and international integrity, would be very serious. This amendment goes in the right direction and we will therefore vote in favour of the ratification measure.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-817.ana.u294	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-817.ana.u295	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-817.ana.u296	SANTANGELO (M5S). We call for the vote to be taken by simultaneous ballot by electronic means.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-817.ana.u297	I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I refer to the nominal vote by simultaneous ballot of the bill as a whole. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). Colleagues, having appreciated the circumstances, taking into account the necessary reflections and consultations with a view to convening Parliament in a joint sitting for the election of a judge of the Constitutional Court, I would like to turn to the speeches on matters not included on the agenda.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-817.ana.u298	On behalf of the Assembly, I greet the teachers and students of the Istituto comprensivo Statale Gioacchino Rossini of San Marcello, in the province of Ancona, who are attending our works. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-817.ana.u299	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-817.ana.u300	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-817.ana.u301	MORRA (M5S). Mr President, I would like to urge the Government and the DAC to take action on a situation that is exploding in the city of Cosenza with regard to the failure to sign a programme agreement. So, missing the signature of the two mayors of the urban area of Cosentina, there was a game of the parties between the governor of the Calabria Region, Mario Oliverio, and the mayor of Cosenza, Occhiuto, regarding a public work whose estimated cost is about 160 million euros. All this while for health care, for the port of Gioia Tauro and for the local transports, Calabria are denied answers relative to real needs. Instead, in this case, for a public work, which the protagonists themselves have defined as useless, as well as economically incapable of supporting themselves, there is money to satisfy the will to cement and above all to promote public works that could - I always use the conditional - guarantee maybe "creste" (so I think it is said) when the city needs anything else. Member Paolo Parentela, about two months ago, on 7 March last, called for DAC to intervene because the procedure followed is vitiated by substantial illegality at the procedural level. In the absence of the necessary defined acts, the framework agreement cannot be considered to have been concluded. If the ANAC intervenes in 2047, probably the work will already be finished and everything will end, as they say, in magna pump. I am tired of this situation and I asked Minister Delrio for the appointment of the President of the Port System Authority. What must we Calabrians do to have the right to listen on the part of the Government and the DAC? We must actually consider Calabria an island and therefore the bridge, rather than building it on the Strait, we build it from Rome to Campotenese, where there is the border with the Basilicata Region, since of the right complaints of the Calabrians nobody is interested? I hope Raffaele Cantone can give us an answer shortly. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-817.ana.u302	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-817.ana.u303	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-817.ana.u304	WOMAN (M5S). Mr President, TAP is not just the pollution and aggression of the ecosystem; TAP is also, unfortunately, adversely affecting the health of citizens. Oncologist Giuseppe Serravezza, scientific director of the Italian League for the fight against cancer (LILT) of Lecce is on hunger and thirst strike, because, as a doctor, it is aware that the realization of the TAP is a source of dangerous emissions for the health of all Apulians. Six days after the start of the strike he was admitted to the Ferrari hospital in Casarano, due to a worsening of health conditions. The hospitalization was voluntarily interrupted yesterday and there are many acts of solidarity and esteem of Apulian and Italian citizens in general. The President of the LILT of Lecce, Dr Serravezza, asks to be received by the Government to discuss again the evil TAP project, which, if implemented, would aggravate the tragic situation of our territory. The battle "NO TAP" is becoming a real civil resistance, since the regional and national governments put their heads in the ground, pretending that everything is going well. The 5 Star Movement is the healthy spokesperson for the voice of the citizens, such as Mary Angy Leone, who fully supports and esteems Professor Serravezza and claims that his determination heartens and gives hope to all citizens. Alfredo Martel asks them to explain why they are so stubborn to land the pipeline on the most beautiful beaches in Italy. Pino Barone expresses solidarity with Professor Serravezza and all the people who are fighting against the construction of the pipeline. Flora Dipierro writes that silence on our part would not have been acceptable and that if a man has to put his own life at risk in order to defend his own land, the environment and health, it means that the State does not work. [[Call the president back.]] Mr President, I would ask you to allow me a few more minutes, because it is right that citizens should be able to make their voice heard in the institutions. So, we're talking about a man who has to put his own life at risk in order to prevent a mess from taking place on the ground. According to Agostino Sergi, if anything should happen to Dr. Serravezza or to any of the Salento who are peacefully protesting, the current government, the previous one and all those who want to realize the pipeline will have to consider themselves responsible and accomplices. Giuseppe Costantino writes: "This fierceness of yours is ruthless. You are tearing our culture apart for reasons that are not dispensable and useful. According to Gigi Mininno, a government that does not respect the will of the people is not worthy of representing its own people. Dominique Garofalo writes: "Dr. Serravezza is all of us!" For Valerio Conte, in a civil and democratic country, these things should not happen. Mauro Dell'Anna writes: "...the incidence of cancer mortality in Salento is very high and for once do not always think of the god money!" Fausto Luigi Melissano writes: "Unconditional support (...) to Dr Serravezza, close to the Salento people." According to Nicoletta Ladisa: Dr Serravezza is putting his life at risk on behalf of all of us, in order to regain our constitutional rights: we have spoken loudly in a referendum, that these rights are respected............................................................................................................ These are some of the messages that we have received and that we have wanted to read in the Chamber, so that the Government can listen to them and listen, above all, to the voice of those who are really putting their lives at risk, in order to avoid at all costs that the pipeline is being carried out, as well as all the works that the Government is carrying out, in the destruction of our country. Think about it! I hope that the request to be received by the Government, made by Dr Serravezza, will be accepted as soon as possible. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-817.ana.u305	I would remind my colleagues that, as already announced, the usual afternoon session dedicated to the inspection union will not take place.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-817.ana.u306	The motions, questions and questions received by the Presidency will be published in Annex B to today's report.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-817.ana.u307	The Senate will meet again in public session on Tuesday, 9 May, at 4.30 p.m., with the following agenda: (See agenda) The sitting was closed at 12.25 a.m.
