ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-918.ana.u1	The sitting was opened at 12.06 a.m. The Minutes shall be read. Mr Mauro Giovanni, secretary, read the Minutes of the sitting on 14 December. PRESIDENT. - The debate is Since there were no comments, the Minutes were approved.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-918.ana.u2	The list of senators on leave and absent on assignment received from the Senate, as well as further communications to the Assembly, will be published in Annex B to today's Minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-918.ana.u3	I would warn you that qualified votes can be taken in the course of today's sitting by electronic means. Therefore, from this moment the period of 20 minutes from the notice provided for in Article 119, paragraph 1, of the Regulation (at 12,08 p.m.). I support the work of the House pending the conclusions of the Committee on the Rules of Procedure. (The sitting was suspended at 12.08 p.m. and resumed at 13.33 p.m.)
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-918.ana.u4	[[He stands up and with him the whole Assembly.]] Ladies and gentlemen, as everyone knows, yesterday, following a tragic road accident on the Aurelia road near Capalbio, my colleague, Senator Altero Matteoli, was missing. His sudden disappearance leaves the family, friends and that political and institutional community of which he has been a member for many years dismayed. A leading figure on the Italian right, Altero Matteoli was born in Cecina, in Provincia di Livorno, on 8 September 1940. He begins his career as political leader of the Italian Social Movement, of which he is regional secretary in Tuscany, in whose ranks he is elected on several occasions city councilor and then provincial of Livorno. Since 1983 she has been an unbroken member of parliament, first in the Chamber of Deputies and, subsequently, since 2006, in the Senate. During his term of office he holds numerous institutional positions: Minister of the Environment in the first, second and third Berlusconi Government, in the 15th legislature he became President of the Senators of the National Alliance. He returned to positions of government in the fourth Executive Berlusconi, this time as holder of the Ministry of Infrastructure and Transport. From 2006 to 2011 he is also mayor of the Municipality of Orbetello. In 2013 he was elected President of the Commission for Public Works and Communications of the Senate, to which he was reconfirmed on 21 January 2016. With Altero Matteoli disappears a parliamentarians of undisputed competence and experience, as well as a person with a polite and kind human trait. There is also a lack of a politician who, even proud of his cultural belonging, has always been able (as confirmed also by the most distant opponents), to unite to the vindication of his own positions listening and respect for those of others, together with the undoubted ability to seek points of balance and mediation. The considerations that I imagine the Groups will make will be carried out in the next few days, in a commemoration that will be made in the presence of the family. It is likely that Altero Matteoli's funerals will be celebrated in Rome on Thursday. The tragic modalities of the accident do not yet allow to announce the precise date, but surely the funerals will take place in Rome and probably Thursday, also to allow colleagues of the institutions to participate. I do not add any more words and invite the Assembly to observe a minute of silence and recollection. [[The Assembly observed a minute's silence. Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-918.ana.u5	The next item is the debate on document II, No 38. The report has been printed and distributed. I would ask the rapporteur, Senator Calderoli, whether he intends to intervene to supplement the written report.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-918.ana.u6	Mr President, I believe that the reform of the Rules of Procedure is not only done by writing, but also by behavior, and therefore, since our Rules of Procedure provide that the report should be handed over and filed five days earlier (but I did it a month ago), I believe that the first rule should be that if there is a written report on it, we should refer to it. I do not therefore intend to add anything other than what I will say in reply tomorrow.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-918.ana.u7	I declare the debate on this document open. Senator Crimi is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-918.ana.u8	Mr President, I address the citizens in particular, who are outside this House to announce what will happen if this amendment of the Rules of Procedure goes through, thanks also to the contribution we have made: a breakthrough in our opinion, which provides that at last the laws of popular initiative will no longer be buried, will no longer be abandoned in the stale drawers of the Senate, as happened with the law of clean Parliament, as happened with the law of public water, laws that have literally been abandoned in the Commissions and never discussed. This reform of the Rules of Procedure provides that all laws of popular initiative, within three months, must be brought to the Assembly, their work must be completed and brought to a vote and if the Commissions are unable to amend it and draw up a new text, it is the text proposed by the citizens that must be brought to the vote of the Assembly. This is a reform that we believe to be epochal. This is one of the issues we have been fighting since 2007, since we started this battle. We were born with that V-Day, with the laws of popular initiative to have a Parliament without condemned. That uncondemned Parliament was provided for in the text of the law of popular initiative: Beppe Grillo came to bring the text here, at the time. Two legislatures have passed - two legislatures! - and the Commission has carried out endless work, hearings on hearings, to get nowhere, and after two legislatures that bill has gone on a dead end. If this reform of the Rules of Procedure passes, this will be the first revolution. But there will be many more, because many others we have managed, even with our contribution, to introduce. The anti-transformism norm: enough with the basket changers. We would have liked something stronger, we would have liked to see those who change the Parliamentary Group lose the emoluments that go to the Group. That was our goal, in order to avoid a commodity being made of the transfer of senators from one group to another; that it was done instrumentally to obtain an economic increase in the endowments or that every parliamentarians, changing the Group, would carry with them that dowry, which here at the Senate is about 60,000 euros, in the Group's expenses. Unfortunately, we have not reached that point, we have reached a point of fall: at least, we have obtained that those who change coats lose the chair of the positions they had, as President, Vice President or Secretary of the Commissions or Vice President and Secretary of the Senate. What would have happened if we had had this regulation in this parliamentary term? Perhaps the presidency of the Senate would have changed radically as the months went by, considering that we had the legislature with the highest number of changing coats. This anti-transformism rule will prevent someone from making these changes with a view to getting prizes with Presidencies, Vice-Presidents or other. These are two common sense rules. The other colleagues will also tell the others: the introduction of electronic voting, for example, which, of course, is prodromic to the introduction of the fingerprint to avoid the phenomenon of pianists; the possibility of breast-feeding (this is one of the amendments that have been proposed and which we hope someone will accept): in this legislature two senators had a child and had the need to breast-feed and had to set up a special room to do so, but what is more natural than bringing their child to the Chamber? This, among other things, is already happening in the European Parliament. Again: the publicity of the work in the Commission: today in the Rules of Procedure it is provided that the work of the Commissions, in the referee and in the hearing are not public: here, by deleting that paragraph of the Rules of Procedure, the work can become public. Of course, this is not automatic and the publicity of the work presupposes that there are then other interventions, but these can be carried out directly by decision of the Presidency Council. Other changes have been made, for example... now I have the void... I stop here, so the most important things I have said... president. Take it easy. What did he mean? CRIMI (M5S). The abstention vote (they suggest my colleagues, because there are so many arguments), which is finally considered as a veritable abstention vote and no longer as a vote against, as currently happens in the Senate allowing strange games. Mr President, this regulatory reform provides, for example, for the inclusion of quotas for the minority, an issue that has always been disregarded by this Senate: how many times have we tried to introduce draft laws into minority quotas, which have then been ignored! Now, quotas are being introduced directly on a calendar with an obligation to discuss them. Not to mention, forgive me, but he caught me by surprise. [[Applause from the M5S Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-918.ana.u9	I don't think he was mad at the Presidency. I was clarifying some of the issues with regard to the tragic affair that I mentioned earlier, I wasn't showing any inattention.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-918.ana.u10	CRIMI (M5S). But it was not this Mr President, but the introduction with the facts that you have just told about Mr Matteoli and the sudden intervention that I have been asked for does not allow me to be very serene. The other important issue I would like to highlight is the planning of work on draft legislation with a statement of urgency. How many times in this Senate have we voted on the statement of urgency of measures proposed by the opposition? Of course, the majority always have the instrument of the Conference of the Leaders, in which comes the Parent in turn who, with the numbers that carry behind him, decides the calendarization at a certain date of the measures. What kind of opposition do they have? The statement of urgency, that is to say to ask for other Members to support that urgency and every time that is also disregarded. Well, with this amendment to the Rules of Procedure it is automatic that at the time when the statement of urgency is adopted, the text of that draft law must be introduced into the planning of the work as soon as possible and in any case within three months. This text is the result of joint work. It all started after the rejection of the constitutional referendum, because during that referendum we had argued several times that if we wanted to make Parliament's work efficient (I am not talking about speed, but about efficiency) we could do small regulatory changes. That is what has been achieved: small regulatory changes, such as giving space to the Commission to work or to give priority to the Commission in its drafting, in which a limited group of people can be able to draw up a text that is as correct and consistent as possible with the constitutional dictation. However, we have managed to introduce a deterrent, to prevent this from becoming a tool in the hands of the majority to make many more laws: in fact, today this country does not need more laws, but less laws and better laws and to make better laws perhaps the Commission is the best place. However, we have introduced deterrents to prevent this from becoming an abused instrument by the majority, that is, at any time, until the final vote, if a given number of senators (one tenth for the House or one fifth for the Commission) opposes the continuation of the work in that extraordinary mode we return to the ordinary mode, with all the ensuing debate. We believe that this regulatory change is a step forward. It is not the Rules of Procedure that we would have written: if we had written it we would have been much harder and we would have dared more. It is, however, a great step forward which will perhaps mark a change in Parliament's work, and in this respect we hope that the issues addressed in the various amendments will also be accepted. Clearly, we are willing to fully support this document, provided that it does not distort the nature of the change that we have helped to move forward. [[Applause from the M5S Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-918.ana.u11	Senator Palma is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-918.ana.u12	Mr President, Senator Crimi, don't take it hard when you speak with your arms sometimes some blackout happens: it has happened to everyone, it has happened to you and it will not be the first or the last time. CRIMI (M5S). Let's hope it wasn't the last one. PALMA (FI-PdL XVII). Even if it were the penultimate one, we'd still be surprised. First of all, Mr President, I would like to thank Senator Calderoli, the Committee on the Rules of Procedure and all the members of the Committee on the Rules of Procedure for their work, even partial amendments to the Rules of Procedure, which are all aimed at seeking the maximum possible consensus in this House, which is why certain provisions are inevitably the result of mediation. A mediation that, if seen only with reference to the single disposition, can generate some adornment, some criticism; but if seen as a whole, it obviously discolours itself with respect to the objective that all of us have tried to achieve. Basically, these amendments to the Rules of Procedure tend to speed up Parliament's work, in particular the work of this House, which, I have to say, poses a first question, namely whether this speeding-up was so necessary in the face of other provisions, which, on the other hand, provide for a reduction in the workload in this House for the benefit of work in the Commissions. However, I believe that trying to make the work of this House a good thing. A positive assessment of the proposed changes allows me to focus my attention only on certain provisions which, from my personal point of view, give rise to many doubts. The first is in Article 13, where it is said that the Vice Presidents and Secretaries who become members of a parliamentary group other than that to which they belonged at the time of the election fall from office. Meanwhile, as President Lanzillotta rightly pointed out, the functions of the Vice Presidents and the methods of election of the Vice Presidents are completely different from those concerning the Secretaries. I also wonder what it means to say that they are part of a different parliamentary group. In other words, I wonder if the form should prevail over the substance, because it is clear that the Vice Presidents and Secretaries can vote continuously in dissent from their own Group. This, which is an important fact and which highlights a distance between the subject and the Group, would not have value compared to the requirements of Article 13. Without considering the fact that I do not know how much this provision can be in tune with the absence of a mandate. It is a complicated provision, this, which finds a temperament in an amendment by the rapporteur, which says that the provision does not apply in the event that the Vice President or the Secretary joins a different Group not for a manifestation of his own will but for a manifestation of the will of the Group of belonging, which essentially expels and removes it. On this point, however, I would like to make a small point. Senator Zanda, in the course of the debate in the junta for the Rules of Procedure, defended this provision by saying that the Vice Presidents are, however, part of the majority-opposition balance, so in my opinion, affirming a reality that is certainly in line with the practice but not with the entire institutional structure. And I wonder, at a time when it is said that the Vice-Presidents are part of the majority or the opposition and that their decadence is correct if they wish to change the Group, why this provision should not also apply to the President of the Senate. It can happen, in fact, that the President of the Senate, elected by a majority, changes his membership Group and in this case he could do so while the Vice Presidents did not, to penalty of forfeiture. Therefore, this is probably a provision on which, before launching it, we will have to think for a long time. Similarly, there is another provision - which I understand well awaited the transformation that often characterizes political life - which basically prevents the formation of new parliamentary groups, unless it is the result of the union of already established groups. The sense of the arrangement is clear. It is also clear, however, that it substantially compresses dissent to zero - it is clear, a substantial dissent - which can occur within a parliamentary group when the political line that is pursued by the same is no longer the political line in which the individual members of that group are recognized, who, be careful, must first respond to their voters, who through their vote have validated their election and, above all, have confirmed the goodness of the electoral programme submitted to their scrutiny. I believe that this provision is not correct, in the sense and in the terms that I have just represented. If a political group, and of course the parliamentary group of reference, should, for reasons all within the party or the Group, seriously change the political line, do you really think that a rule is legitimate that prevents other Members from being able to set up an autonomous group that - if you look carefully - finds its reason in politics and not in the transformation of politics, but in compliance with the electoral pact with the voters and therefore not, as can be said, in the search for posts and benefits? We cannot legislate on physiology, anchoring ourselves to the pathology that the practice of recent times has represented us. We can legislate to contain the pathology, but we cannot in the most absolute way compress the values and ideals that each senator intends to represent. It is also stated in an amendment tabled by Senator Calderoli that the President of the Junta for the election should be a member of the opposition, thus also formally regulating what was a practice. And it is also stated, because of the whole of the other provisions, that if that President ever joined the majority, he would fall. But what does it mean to join the majority? Does that mean expressly declaring a change in the Group? Do you mean to vote in tune with all the moments together with the majority? Do you mean, for example, to vote for the government? I believe, as the election committee (but the reasoning could be made for any other guarantee body), that this rule should be more specific and precise, because I do not think it is possible for a guarantee body to be chaired by a disguised member of the majority. If amendments are to be made to the Rules of Procedure, they must be serious, thorough and capable of working and not simply a small alibi with regard to discrasies and anomalies that have occurred in the past. When you then say that the draft laws are normally assigned in writing and deliberating, it is clear that the intention is to speed up the work. In the meantime, this poses a first problem, namely that the Groups should be particularly careful in the composition of the Commissions, because, since there are different sensitivities within each Group, if these sensibilities were represented in an unbalanced and disproportionate way within the Commission, the latter would essentially be the dictatorship of a few compared to the guarantee that the Assembly can obtain. We will see - or you will see - how this regulatory change will work in the next Senate, but see that giving the possibility to return to the normal seat, that is to say to overcome both the writing seat and the deliberating seat, means essentially not to modify anything, that is to make things as they currently are; when instead it would have been preferable, as it is today, that the deliberating seat was the result of an agreement of political forces. Because I am sure that, at a time when there were no convergence points in the Commission, for any draft law with regard to which this convergence point should not occur, the request to return to normal work in this House will begin. Furthermore, there is one provision which essentially concerns the illustration and presentation of amendments: it is an amendment to Rule 100. This amendment states that the explanation of the amendments will be made by only one Senator per Group for ten minutes. Correct: we tend to speed up the work; but if, by hypothesis, there were an amendment tabled by one of the Group's senators in total disagreement with the Group itself, that senator would not have the opportunity to present the amendment at the moment. I know perfectly well that Senator Calderoli has prepared a reformulation of an amendment tabled by Senator Malan, which in my opinion was much more respectful of the rights of the senators and their prerogative to exercise their function without a mandate. However, as I have already told Senator Calderoli in the Giunta per il Regolamento, his rewording is not satisfactory to the end: if it is true that it allows the presenter of a dissenting amendment to intervene, it is also true that if the dissenting amendments were more than one, and more than one were the presenters, only one of these presenters would have the opportunity to speak, and not necessarily that dissenting presenter could have a vision of the other amendments in line with that of the other presenters. You see, if we reduce the room for discussion in this House with regard to the possibility of senators dissent, we, for a certain part, basically compress democracy and, for another part, give a primacy of authority - not of authority - to parties. I do not think this is a good thing at all. Nor can it be said that the presenter of a dissenting amendment still has the opportunity to speak in an explanation of vote, which is clearly in contradiction with the Group's statement. To state such a thing would essentially mean that the stage in the explanation of the amendments is of no use at all, when we all know that that stage in the explanation of the amendments, especially if not abused, is the time when we can explain to the senators and to the House the reasons for an amendment and, if necessary, as has often been the case in this House, convince the senators of another political party to vote on that amendment. How many times has this happened? All this is compressed in homage to the speed totem that, unfortunately for the Democratic Party, has made many failures in that party - and I am very sorry for the country because the country has done many more - and that does not seem to be in tune with democracy. Mr President, I am talking about this because Senator Crimi mentioned it in his speech. There is an amendment according to which the Senate's work should also include the possibility of breast-feeding infants entering. In the meantime, I would correct that amendment because it seems to me that maternity and paternity are assimilated and, if it is true that father cannot physiologically breast-feed, it is also true that he can do so in all cases of artificial lactation. You cannot say such a thing without some corrective measures. Do you really feel that breast - feeding for many women is not an intimate moment to preserve with respect to the curiosity of others? Consequently, breast-feeding in this House is not exactly the best way to meet the needs of motherhood, as it is possible to suspend work for fifteen or twenty minutes and allow mother to breast-feed her child in the way she considers most appropriate. Excuse me, but when mom breast-feeds in the courtroom, is the radio and television circuit running? Do photographers from the stands carry out their activities? Do you consider this to be respectful of the woman, especially of the woman who, hypothetically, wants to breast-feed separately, cannot do so because the work in this House continues and, therefore, is placed before the decision not to vote or to breast-feed? Europe tells us this: I am tired of being told every step of the way, and Europe is asking for it. But, in short, do you realize that Europe is something elusive now, with over twenty countries that are part of it, many of which with traditions and stories completely different from ours? It is one thing to regulate the cornerstones of certain sectors and one very different thing is to affect the custom of a people. Europe is asking us: Europe has not done so. The European Parliament does not have such a provision in its own Rules of Procedure. If necessary, it is a rule that can be adopted by the Presidency Council within the very narrow limits that it intends to adopt. Mr President, I wonder what exceptional cases are and whether, indeed, in the face of exceptional circumstances, the need for breast-feeding does not largely justify the interruption of work for a quarter of an hour, twenty minutes, half an hour or for what is necessary. In this case too, in your opinion, must speed make weird feelings that accompany the woman in one of the most beautiful and delicate moments of her life? [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII and Senators Buemi and Mussini]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-918.ana.u13	She's registered to speak Senator Bottici. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-918.ana.u14	Mr President, I would also like to take this opportunity to thank President Grasso, who has finally remembered that he is chairing the Committee on the Rules of Procedure. In this parliamentary term we have often called for the Committee on the Rules of Procedure, but it has never met: fortunately, it has entered politics and it has also awakened him. I have tabled three amendments to the proposal to amend the Rules of Procedure. Since we are going to change the rule on the dissolution of parliamentary groups, the first amendment that I tabled is intended to set aside sums to cover any charges, because we have also seen in this parliamentary term that, at the time when disputes end in the next parliamentary term, someone has to pay. Then I presented two more, one on the analytical accounts of the expenditure of the senators - since I also brought this matter to the Presidency Council, but they listen to each other as a merchant - and the other on the staff of the Members, who, as we have seen, are often hired, but are not paid, and this is also discussed only at the end of the parliamentary term. We had five years to resolve certain issues, we did not want to do so and I hope that the new Rules of Procedure will somehow change the course of the next parliamentary term, because what I saw in the parliamentary term that is coming to an end has really disgusted me.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-918.ana.u15	Senator Fucksia is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-918.ana.u16	Mr President, how much time do I have for my speech? PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. He's got 20 minutes. Thank you, Mr President. We have just heard Senator Bottici and before Senator Crimi make robatory announcements, of outrage, of proposal and of high idealism. But I invite both senators, representatives of the 5 Star Movement, to have a moment of modesty. It is very important to influence the Rules of Procedure of the Senate, because it is the Regulations that have evolved democracy, from Athens to the Magna Charta period, to all the amendments of the Rules of Procedure and of the parliamentary groups that have been there since the beginning of our Republic and, even before, in the various constituent and legislative assemblies. It is important to influence the regulations, because they allow them to legislate well, to give popular representation and to ensure that parliamentarians are actually the voice of the nation and the people and that resources are redistributed equally. The Regulations, however, must not be pure formal acts to be deposited in the Senate - I am also referring to the statutes of the Groups - and then completely ignore them. The 5 Star Movement, which so exalts direct democracy and then does not apply it even within the Group, should then make a j'accuse because it did not even comply with the regulations of its statutes deposited in the Senate. In fact, in the face of democracy and respect for the high ideals, 19 people - 19 senators - were expelled from this Senate, and none of them in compliance with the statute deposited in the Senate. BOTTICS (M5S). Oppose! Call it in! FUCKSIA (FL (Id-PL, PLI)). Senator Bottici grunts, but it is very difficult to do what she says because in this Senate where you look at the tie and the way you dress you can then steal mobile phones in the Hall, maybe to spy on chats or conversations and do dossier work. It is very difficult to intervene in this House where there is self-declaration; it is very difficult to apply the law, the law which is supposed to be applied outside. But what example can be given outside if the law is not even applied here? In short, the speeches to be made would be many, but I will be much shorter - and I would ask you, Mr President, at the end of my speech, to hand over the written text in order to attach it to the report - because I would like to address two or three points on which I have tabled a number of amendments. First of all, we should all be equal as parliamentarians, because we should all have the same right and the same space to be able to legislate and represent our territories and the availability of an equal share of resources. This is not the case today, first of all because in the Groups there are those who are more important and those who are less important (which can also be normal, but when there is no democratic sharing within the Groups themselves and it is not transmitted either in the Commissions or in the Chamber it is not good). Then every Member brings with him about 6,000 euros per month, which is a full-featured public contribution to the parties represented here by the Groups, which are never mentioned when, for example, we do so much populism by looking at the crumbs of the parliamentarians' costs or when we make fake reports, or so well reported to the cent that we will have governors and representatives with precise budgets at 0.01. I want to say that in order to be democratic we need to be transparent and consistent and to ensure that a regulation, if there is to be, is also, as a result, respected. We must also say that there has always been populism about transmigration and in this regard there are those who have gone out voluntarily and there are those who have been expelled, which is a very different thing. I personally was expelled, let's face it. Within the 5 Star Movement I would have broken the boxes all the time and until the end because the things we promised we did not then applied them: we must say that things went a little differently, that those famous nine million voters were mocked. We must say that, in fact, we have not been a reduction in the costs for politics, because we have spent so much and that money has also been used questionablely and privately. I am referring to the external communication office that decides, it is not only a communication office but it gives a political line, a political direction; therefore the people are replaced by a small group in a closed bunker room, where one does not know who decides, one does not know how things are transmitted and inside which assemblies are held that are simple ratifications and when there is disagreement between what the summit says and what is agreed, the summit always prevails on the basis of consensus. This is the translation of the ethical democracy that you have understood and that at the time it had to be anything else. Therefore, on the one hand, we must respect the Group's line, as it should be, because there is a programme with which one presents itself; on the other, every Member of Parliament is a Member of the nation. It must also be said that, unfortunately, things are now much more confusing, because we do not have those groups, that classic bipolarism: conservative-revolutionary, right-left; everything is more confused because we are in the post-ideological era, in which certain values and certain principles characterize in one way or another and imply different solutions, but the complete horizon is much more complex. I have therefore tabled three amendments. I simply asked for transparency. If there is an obligation of transparency for every Member, there must also be an obligation of transparency, public, for the Group's money. The key to solving so many situations, in my opinion, is to ensure that it is not the Group that automatically takes the amount that each Member brings, but that that figure goes to the Member of Parliament (because tax codes are traceable, while abstract entities remain increasingly smoky), which will give its share to the Group, in agreement, i.e. according to the agreements of the Group itself. It is basically a return: to give up certain things, to pay the officials, the staff, the secretariats, with their share of 6,000 euros, which is more than enough, I believe, to contribute to a Group. It must be said that the parliamentarians who leave a group create a damage to the Group itself, in terms of numbers, representation and economic terms. So even if you have a right - because Article 67 of the Constitution provides that there is no mandate - in my opinion a Member who leaves a Group must pay a pledge, he must pay a penalty. I have calculated the penalty in proportion to the months of the MEP's stay in the Group: that quota must be left to the Group which the Member of Parliament, on his own initiative, abandons. But when, instead, it is the Group that expels the parliamentarians, without a valid reason, not respecting the rules that the Parliamentary Group itself has given itself and deposited in the Senate, in that case it must be the Group that pays; it will pay the parliamentarians the same amount, that is a proportion proportional to the months of the parliamentarians' stay in the Group. After that, the Member will bring that share into the Group to which he will accede. This, in my opinion, is an incentive to be responsible, to respect the rules and not to make the famous transmigrations that take place so often (the famous changes of the casacca). But if it is the Parliamentary Group that throws Members out, how often can it do so, in violation of the Group's Rules of Procedure? I don't think it's an infinite number of times. I have therefore proposed that, in addition to the three Members expelled outside the rules (i.e. not respecting the rules that the Group itself has given itself and which it has deposited in the Senate), the Group should automatically consider itself dissolved and Members should join the Mixed Group. The Mixed Group, in my opinion, must not be made of so many components; everyone, if he has his particular thought, holds it, but the Mixed Group must be mixed, neutral, without components. Thus no one is denied the right to make politics, Article 67 of the Constitution is respected and neither are strange automatisms created or games played on the funds of the Groups in a strategic way. These are the amendments I have tabled. Therefore, greater transparency, greater centrality and accountability of the Member of Parliament; we must ensure that there is more equality and more opportunities for all, that they are all a little more free and all a little more equal. I should like to conclude, Mr President, by quoting Max Weber, who said that there are two ways of being a politician: one can live for politics or one can live for politics. That is why I hope that our Rules of Procedure will be amended so that no one will live more than politics, to the detriment of those who, elected, live for politics. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator Orellana is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-918.ana.u17	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the subject we are debating today is certainly one of the most important and sensitive issues we have discussed in this parliamentary term. It is, first of all, because of the particularity of the legislative body, but - even more so - if we consider the failure to vote in favour of the constitutional referendum of 2016. In fact, exactly one year has passed since the famous 4 December and it has finally been realized that intervening on the timeliness of the legislative procedure, on harmonization and on the reorganization of certain parliamentary procedures is not only necessary (it has always been and - I dare say - it would have been necessary even in case of victory of yes), but - now - even indispensable. Therefore, I come to say: finally. Finally the revision of the Rules of Procedure. Welcome, then, to the debate on this subject. At the same time, it is also right to give a serene assessment of how Parliament's work has been carried out in the current parliamentary term in relation to the application of the current Rules of Procedure. Let us say that the Rules of Procedure showed all their limitations and could not avoid various lengths, regulatory distortions, even interpretative abuses even for obstructive purposes, or excessive rigidity of the provisions contained therein. A review process was therefore inevitable and topical. The reform of the Rules of Procedure of the Senate proposed by President Grasso is therefore an important step which - I hope - will take into account the opinion of all parliamentary groups and also of individual senators. For my part, I wanted to make my contribution by supplementing the text proposed by the Committee on the Rules of Procedure with a number of amendments, such as the provision of a code of conduct for senators, which has already been partially introduced into the Chamber of Deputies. This request comes from both the Council of Europe and the OSCE. I recall, in fact, the Brussels Declaration of the OSCE Parliamentary Assembly, which, as early as 2006, in Article 12 of the resolution on the limits to parliamentary immunity in order to strengthen good governance, public integrity and rule of law in the OSCE region, encourages the parliaments of the OSCE participating States to: define and publish strict rules of ethics and official conduct of parliamentarians and their staff; create efficient mechanisms for the publicity of financial information and potential conflicts of interest of parliamentarians and their staff; set up an office of public standards to which complaints can be lodged about violations of standards by parliamentarians and their staff; create effective and timely procedures for investigating such complaints and for taking disciplinary measures against Members and their staff if they are accepted. This reference to the OSCE goes in parallel with the recent evaluation made by GRECO (Group of States Against Corruption), a body of the Council of Europe, published on 19 January, on the Italian system in the prevention of corruption among Members of Parliament, with specific reference to the Italian Senate and the need for the latter to adopt a code of conduct, in the wake of what has already been done to the House of Deputies. Let us remember, in fact, that the House has a code of conduct, while the Senate does not. On page 15 of the report we read: "GRECO recommends strengthening the order of integrity for parliamentarians, including the formalization of the code of conduct within the Rules of Procedure of the Chamber of Deputies; its further refinement through a guide to its provisions; effective sanctioning provisions." These measures are also recommended for the Senate. I therefore believe that it is essential to provide for rules that prevent and remove situations of conflict of interest, with appropriate sanctions, even of a pecuniary nature, to be applied to those who do not comply with these provisions. In particular, every senator, in the exercise of his parliamentary mandate, must be guided by the principles of honesty, integrity, transparency, responsibility, diligence and exemplaryness, to protect the good name of the institution he represents. (14.29) (Followed by Mr Orellana). For this reason, I have also provided for the inclusion of behavioural criteria of seriousness and respect for the other, as well as principles of sobriety and transparency. In my humble opinion, they must be values and conducts common to all Members of Parliament (I also remember Article 54 of our Constitution, referring to people who have public office and who must fulfil their mandate with discipline and honor), not just propaganda slogans of a party or political movement. With regard to definitions, I spoke specifically to Article 14 (4) of the proposed amendment, because I believe it is useless and misleading to include an explicit reference to a concept such as that of political movement. I believe that by taking our Constitution as the main source of the Rules of Procedure, it cites only political parties as actors of Italian politics and does not use other terms. Furthermore, if we want to take into account the provisions of the electoral law in force, namely No 165 of 2017 (so-called Rosatellum- bis) in this article, we refer to Article 4, when we talk about transparent elections, to the party, movement and organized political group that presented the lists, adding also the political group diction, not provided for by our amendment of the Rules of Procedure which is limited to political parties and movements. We are therefore excluding the political groups. For simplicity, then, but also to avoid different interpretations of the absence of the political groups provided for in the law but not in the Rules of Procedure I would use a single term to indicate who has the right to have parliamentary representation organized in parliamentary groups, that is, the parties, considering, among other things, as the only source of our Rules of Procedure, our much loved Constitution and not polluting it with terminologies that are clearly required of a parliamentary group here, of which I was also a party, which have no other reason than to create confusion, because at this point the political groups, which are also part of the electoral law or other dictions such as coalitions and lists, will be lacking. This will only create problems for the future application of this regulation. Furthermore, I could not fail to refer, again on this occasion, to the need to adopt a framework governing the representation of interests, in order to make the decision-making phases clear and transparent, in the interests of the citizens. Disciplinary, therefore, the relations between lobbyists and public decision-makers is a fundamental step for the socio-economic development of our country. On this, as you know, the House of Deputies, also in that case, has introduced provisions for now absent from the Senate. This is a good opportunity to do so, but I fear that there is no will; so we will maintain two Chambers that will move in completely different ways, in particular on the issues of the code of conduct and the management of lobbyists' activities, which we all see and which should be regulated. Finally, I felt it was my duty - also in my personal experience - to introduce an exception that would safeguard the internal democracy of the groups. In fact, the combined provisions of Articles 13 and 27 of the proposed amendment risk stifling the plurality of voices and points of view within a parliamentary group: to be expelled by a group, by choice of others therefore and not of the individual senator, cannot be equated, interpreted and sanctioned like the so-called change of coat, as it is too superficially called. To differ politically from a Group must be protected and not sanctioned by the Rules of Procedure; I believe that this is a very serious provision. In conclusion, I believe that the changes envisaged in general are in the right direction, but there are serious shortcomings and shortcomings that I have outlined in my speech and that my amendments can be corrected. I promise, in the course of the amendments, that I will go further into the reasons for other amendments which I have not mentioned here, for example those relating to the minimum composition of the groups, to be increased to fourteen members and no more than ten. Considering that it will be the writing or deliberating seat of the privileged one, in which it is obviously expected to be present, because there will be the great and only activity of investigation and study of a matter within a Commission, there must be at least one representative per Group in that place. Of course, the possibility of forming groups made up of ten senators requires that a person be a member of more than one Commission and thus obviously by sacrificing his participation in it. I believe that bringing the minimum composition to fourteen senators is a provision of common sense, which, among other things, would already limit the proliferation of groups, which many have complained about. That concludes by promising to continue with the explanation of the amendments. [[Applause from Senators De Pietro and De Pin]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-918.ana.u18	Senator Mussini is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-918.ana.u19	Madam President, first of all, I would like to criticise the fact that we are going to amend the Rules of Procedure at such a time as we are going to have a new parliamentary term. Moreover, a new legislature that will be launched with an electoral law of which no one can say what the effects can be in terms not so much of what seems to be the supreme interest (ensuring positions, posts and offices), but of what I believe the people most interests, and also the undersigned, that is the correspondence between elected and will of voters, between representatives and representatives. Therefore, I would like to make this criticism because acting on an imminent new parliamentary term, without having ever before brought together the Committee on the Rules of Procedure, has the taste of a measure in which everyone thinks of bringing home an advantage to be collected later, when he is back here, in this Senate. But the saying is always true: those who wait for it. So, caution would like that, when you are about to change the rules for someone else, you would put yourself in a hypercritical, hypercautious and even hyper-criticistic condition. There are two instances in the proposed amendments to this regulation: on the one hand, there is an instance which could also be acceptable, i.e. modernising a way of working; modernising it by means of small variations which could actually make the work of this House more homogeneous, more regular, even more in-depth, work in which there can be a greater balance between those moments of deepening that inevitably take place in the Commissions and the time of the plenary debate on the measures. On the other hand, there is the need to react to phenomena related to representation which, of course, are bothersome. There is a tendency in the proposed amendments to this Regulation, to use clauses and rules as a baton which, first of all, has the aim of sanctioning and intimidating those that the people have now become accustomed to hearing how to change their coats. Incoherence, of course, is a serious fact, especially in those who take responsibility for representing others. But you see, Senator Calderoli, incoherence is not a behaviour that can be prevented by law, because incoherence is a deviance with respect to a moral value that should, instead, be the most important mission, more lucid and clearer for those who ask to be voted and then come here to represent ideas and thoughts. It is not even legitimate to confuse the concept of dissent with the concept of gabbana change, as has often been called a behavior that perhaps has not been possible to clarify or has been misreported or, perhaps, has also been exploited. In fact, Senator Calderoli, that same coherence should also be imposed by law on parties when they appear with an electoral programme and then enter this House and carry out something different from the programme presented to voters. I believe that the Constitution, with Article 67 on freedom of mandate, intends to protect with great firmness the coherent, transparent and truthful relationship that the elected one must have towards his own voters, who are obviously in a position to evaluate only an electoral programme and to give their trust. Therefore, in this draft organic reform of the Senate Rules, nothing will ensure that a parliamentary group is forced to maintain its electoral programme. We can imagine, in fact, that a senator, at the moment when his Group, who may be led from outside by some party secretary or by some head of movement, takes positions and decisions that do not conform to that electoral programme with which he was given confidence, legitimately feels entitled to express himself; unfortunately it happens (in this legislature it has happened) that dissent has been sanctioned with expulsions that have not been the subject of any reflection, any protection and care by this Senate. That same Junta could have also dealt with the fact that I, like other senators with her, asked the President of the Senate to protect his position and to have access to the documents to verify the truthfulness of the statements of the then parent Santangelo on the conformity of the measures taken against nine senators with respect to the statutes and regulations that the Group had deposited and which, in my opinion, are an integral part of the body with which this Assembly is governed and with which each Group regulates. [[Applause from Senator Bencini.]] I believe that this is the greatest sign of the way in which we are today, when we are faced with a reform of the Rules of Procedure, we must take precautions and be careful not to confuse the legitimate dissent and dialectic that a representative of the people, who first of all is a representative of the people, must be able to be guaranteed within this House: not only within his own Group, but also within this House, and this is not protected in the regulatory amendment. These are, in essence, changes that certify the desire to make the relationship between the management of the Group and its senators highly hierarchical within the Groups. All in all, this is perfectly in line with what former Senator Berlusconi said and hoped, perhaps even with a naive excess of sincerity, that is, that in the parliamentary assemblies the vote would be expressed, as happens in the Conference of the Leaders, on the basis of a weighted vote, that is, on the basis of the weight assumed at the time of the elections, going so completely to conflict with what is today the most important necessity of the country: to see itself authentically represented in all its needs and nuances. We cannot do that today, and with the regulatory reform under discussion we will be able to do so less and less. So there is a strong restriction. We've seen everything in this legislature. We have seen senators assigned to committees that have been moved precisely in relation to a lack of reliability that the expression of their opinion could have in relation to the line decided by the party, in a logic of numbers that is unacceptable because the logic of numbers, which is in the availability of the electorate, is consumed within the ballot boxes and in the choice of individual representatives. That they were selected by party secretariats - as I said when the electoral law was discussed and I repeat today - is a distortion of the electoral system. It is then a sublimation of this hierarchical order. It makes me feel good to see that, in the face of this sublimation, the enthusiasm of the Group "one" is worth one; of that one it is worth one that was to be at the time, but how one changes for opportunity! This hierarchical logic is retraced with malice in all the details of lawmaking. It is essentially brought back to negotiations that are being held elsewhere, to negotiations based on force, when my former Group has repeatedly, for five years, complained about the unwillingness of my fellow senators to vote in accordance with their own legitimate personal opinion.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-918.ana.u20	Conclude, Senator.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-918.ana.u21	MUSSINI (Mixed). Senator Calderoli, I remember listening very carefully - and like me many citizens - when you told us about the events of the electoral law known by your name, or rather by the name you gave, that is, the Porcellum. I do not want you to have to tell the House in the future about the birth of the "Porcellamento" (Porcellamento) in this House. [[Applause from the Misto-Idv Group and Senator Orellana]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-918.ana.u22	Senator Santangelo is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-918.ana.u23	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, we are here to discuss the reform of the Rules of Procedure. I am going to focus exclusively on two points that are particularly close to my heart and that, if the reform of the Rules of Procedure is adopted, as it seems, could improve, indeed will certainly improve the progress of the work since the next parliamentary term. The first concerns electronic voting. My colleagues have seen how things have been over the past few years; perhaps we should try to explain it to those outside. The Senate of the Republic votes as a rule by show of hands. Well, in one of the very first sessions of the XVII legislature, coming without any kind of structure and having read - I say this without any shame - the Rules of Procedure of the Senate, I am very surprised at the moment when President Grasso put to the vote an amendment on which this House expressed itself out of hand. At that point, instinctively, as any citizen would have done, I stood up and asked the President what had happened and how he could determine whether the amendment had passed or not. That time the President rightly called me back and said that I did not know the Rules of Procedure of the Senate, which provided for the vote by show of hands. I sat down, a bit mortified by the bad figure, because I was mocked by everyone, and at that point I took this book, not very nice to see, which is the Rules of Procedure of the Senate, and I saw that in Rule 115 there was a provision that provided for electronic voting. What does that mean? That each senator can vote by pressing one of the three buttons that indicate if he abstains, whether he is against or in favour. In order for this mechanism to be used, a senator had to stand up and ask for electronic voting every time. So I started doing it, and the first few months I did it at least hundreds of times a day. I can imagine the laughter on the part of everyone, because they would not have imagined my perseverance in the request, so much so that, over time, some requests have been transposed to such an extent that it was enough to ask for electronic voting only once for the article so that all the amendments relating to it could also be voted on in that way. Well, among the changes inserted, which are pleasing to the 5 Star Movement, there is that of making automatic this mode of voting. Therefore, since the next legislature there will no longer be any need for Senator Santangelo to spend much of his day in this House asking for what is normal. What is this arrangement for? Firstly, to give more transparency to the work of this House. In fact, the scoreboard marks how every senator expresses himself and the vote is put on a list. In this way we know all the votes that the individual Member expresses and we can understand whether or not there has been consistency with what, from a communicative point of view, takes place outside of here. Secondly, another important thing is the inclusion of the card inside the device. This means that the senator's presence is detected automatically. The citizen can thus understand whether his parliamentary employee, on that particular day, was present or not. I believe that this amendment is absolutely in favour of the Senate institution, which will finally be a little more transparent than in the past and will ensure greater certainty as to what is being done. I would therefore like to refer to another amendment. In recent years we have seen that work in this House is often complex because of its structure and the number of amendments tabled. Moving much of the discussion into the Commissions, where the numbers are lower, can facilitate discussion of the bill and the acts themselves, but also - I hope - quality. Let us remember that the quality of the laws is one of Parliament's greatest flaws; therefore, making the sessions more transparent and more open to the outside public is, in my opinion, crucial. The initial text of the amendment I tabled always provided for the dissemination of all the Commission's work. This measure, within the Committee, which has worked to try to sum up all the proposals, has not been accepted, but the Commissions can decide to activate audiovisual devices, which can also be the YouTube channels present in the Senate. Before that, however, the President of the Commission had even to ask for it twenty-four hours earlier. This part has therefore been abolished. I am aware that the reform of the Senate Rules at our examination is not what the 5 Star Movement would have done in its entirety. In some cases, intervention times are distributed differently and probably even a little bit shorter. This measure has not seen us very favorable, but, throwing the sums, we believe that compared to what may be the path of the 5 Star Movement in the next legislature, they can absolutely facilitate the communicative aspect. Then I ask myself one thing: did the Italians need a reform of the Senate Rules at this historic moment? Maybe, but maybe not. Probably, if the same attention had been placed on far more important topics, such as citizenship income or a serious anti-corruption law, probably the work that we all could bring out would have been different. Mr President, I shall end my speech, which may even be the last of my parliamentary adventure; it will certainly remain with the acts that will be voted on automatically by the 18th parliamentary term. [[Applause from the M5S Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-918.ana.u24	He's enlisted to speak Senator Caliendo. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-918.ana.u25	Madam President, I must begin by congratulating the Committee on the Rules of Procedure, because at a first reading of the amendments I felt I could share them all. At a second reading, however, I had some doubts. I have to say, Senator Calderoli, that in the debate that has taken place so far I have taken further reflections that I had missed: for example, I appreciated and appreciate the changes relating to the timing of debate and decision-making; and I welcome the link between the parliamentary groups and the lists. On the contrary, I could not explain to myself why this same rule was applied to the Presidents, Vice Presidents and Secretaries (in fact, I thought it was wrong); but listening to Senator Palma this morning I was given a further doubt. We are at the level of discussion, Senator Calderoli, not at the level of dispute over the solution adopted. If by hypothesis fifteen senators decide to leave their respective groups to make a new group... Mr Calderoli (Misto-LpSP). That's exactly why. CALIENDO (FI-PdL XVII). I said fifteen, but we can assume twenty, twenty-five or even more than one of the groups linked to the lists. In this case should we remain in their respective groups? Mr Calderoli (Misto-LpSP). No, in the Mixed Group. CALIENDO (FI-PdL XVII). We should remain in our respective groups, even though we make a separate group. Then we will have disciplinary sanctions from the Groups, but we will act according to the logic of sharing a certain position. Therefore, if the idea is acceptable, I think it needs to be improved. I am convinced that the logic of seeing, if one leaves a group, that at least it is linked to lists that have appeared in the elections, brings people closer to politics. There's no doubt about that. But we must ask ourselves the question of whether fifteen, twenty or more people, i.e. more than a group, decide to set up a new group. Are we really convinced? Although I have ideologically shared it; and not from now on, the view that with the Group represented by the list with which we presented ourselves at the elections, some doubts remain to me. It is not simply an individual limitation, but a limitation of even doubtful constitutionality in terms of the representation of a political group, therefore of an already existing political expression. President Zanda, to the Article 1-MPD Group, of which the President of the Senate is also a member, do we deny legitimacy because it is not linked to a list presented in the elections? I have some serious doubts that such a solution can be accepted. Senator Calderoli or Senator Malan (senator Bernini is not here now), I address to you who are members of the Council for the Rules of Procedure: something is not right for me. You say the Commissions will work two weeks a month. Okay. But does the House not work in those two weeks? It doesn't say. We have to write it down, otherwise we know that practice will then lead to a change in fact. I come to the second question concerning the legislative procedure. In this I am strongly opposed to the choices made, because they are contrary to the philosophy of our Constitution. Senator Calderoli - I am addressing you because he is rapporteur and not because he is responsible for these solutions - it is said that when the bill arrives in the Chamber he will have to speak one per group for ten minutes to explain all the amendments. Apart from the impossibility of presenting all the amendments in ten minutes, let us consider the case where there is an amendment of mine which runs counter to the Group. It is true that I will be able to make the final statement in dissent, but I will not be able to express the reasons for that amendment. As I have now convinced myself of the remarks made by Senator Palma, it may be that those observations will convince someone else. Do you realize that with this strong limitation of possibilities by the individual senator, the Rules of Procedure can be challenged before the Constitutional Court? Each of us, according to the Constitution, has the representation of the entire nation, but if a senator is deprived of the opportunity to explain the amendments limiting his speech only at the final moment of the vote, through the dissenting declaration, during the phase of examination and discussion, he represents no one. This is contrary to the Constitution and, therefore, the formation of the law will become cloudative, because it did not have the necessary consent from each group and from each senator. The logic cannot be: it is the Groups that represent. That's a logic I don't understand. Do you want to speed up the legislative process? That's not the system. I personally believe that the legislative process should not be accelerated, because we are producing too many laws. This is the same mistake as the constitutional reform, rejected by the Italian people. That reform was also based on the erroneous belief that Parliament produced too many laws. No, Parliament produces too many wrong laws, to the point that even the last document of the prosecutor of the Republic, regarding the interceptions, has said to the parliamentarians: stopatives; no more passed laws. It is not an isolated position of the prosecutors of the Republic. See legal practitioners, lawyers, notaries, magistrates. They say that we are producing a flood of laws, much of which conflict with previous regulatory dictates. Even if we do not have the opportunity to reason and evaluate all the consequences because of the haste, we have adopted rules that are unintelligible, unclear and do not contribute to legal certainty. If that is the logic that guided you, the solution that is proposed is wrong. When the Italian Parliament, not in this legislature, produced fewer laws, the laws were perfect, not at 100%, but at least 90%. There are laws out of the present Parliament that are not applicable. With regard to the law on combating violence against women, for example, all the Groups unanimously said that there were four errors in criminal law and that we would correct them as soon as the measure was approved: it was voted more than three years ago, but we could not correct the law, because there are further laws, legislative decrees and decrees-laws to be examined, that is, a whole series of rules on which it is difficult even to make a minimum of reflection. Therefore, how can one think that, in the light of this situation, they go to assign the drafts of law to the Commission in the deliberating (other thing is to assign them in writing). Do you realize how much longer he'll be lost? How often, in fact, one fifth of the members of the Commission will say that we have to go back to this House, and then we have to resolve any problems in this House, and we will return to the Commission? That's crazy! Once we have reduced the speaking time, once we have established that we are talking for five minutes, that there is no possibility to speak further and therefore that there is no possibility of replying and once we have limited some times for the government too, there is no need to do anything else. However, you subtract the legislative power from the individual senator, taking away the power of expression: an amendment has been tabled by Senator Malan, who, at least, broadens the hypotheses and the possibility of intervention on the amendments by the other members of the Group. In my opinion this possibility had to be extended further: I do not know what the Committee on the Rules of Procedure has decided this morning, having heard from Senator Palma that the rapporteur has the idea of rewording, but restrictive. I don't know exactly, so I don't want to do anything about it. We need a proper system. The fact that the Commissions work for two weeks and the House works for two weeks is fine, but then we give all the time we need. Reduce the time, but do not eliminate the possibility of intervention, do not eliminate the possibility of suggesting different solutions, because only from a real comparison the laws can be in conformity with the Constitution and the order. Otherwise, we will always be faced with non-perfect laws. Therefore, abandon the idea that was the basis of constitutional reform: it is not true that there are many laws, but it is true that there are many wrong laws. Parliament at the beginning of the Second Republic and in the First Republic operated. Let's not forget that there were governments that lasted an average of a year, but Parliament worked and there were considerably fewer judgments of unconstitutionality. Please note that the current situation is certainly not clear. In conclusion, how to solve the problem? I believe that the link between each of us and the election groups should be confirmed. However, I must say to the rapporteur, Senator Calderoli, because perhaps no ad hoc amendment has been tabled, that if the group of senators is equal to one and a half times or twice the number required for the establishment of a group, even if there is no link to a list, this must be possible. To do otherwise would be to deny the validity of the policy. I do not know how President Grasso voted on this amendment, but my question is: if they cannot be part of a different group, how do we assess them by the Senators of Article 1 and by the President Grasso? That is why action is needed. In the case mentioned there is certainly a certain numerical consistency which corresponds to a different political option, as if it were a different party, and it has become so. How do you say no because it's not linked to an election list? This is one of the points that needs to be corrected. I have made two comments: this and the one relating to the seat of the legislative procedure, which must be confirmed in some respects and corrected for others. We should really be able to make a functional speech, because this text, as it has been launched, will not determine its functionality from the point of view of the legislative procedure. Instead, with those corrections I believe that we could render a service to the country, providing for a new form of participation in the life of the Senate such as to guarantee a correct legislative product and, at the same time, the criticality of the comparison. The basis of this text is a comparison between the various political forces in order to find a solution; unless we want to do as I have said several times in the Commission, where a technique is adopted which is completely contrary to that of the collegial bodies. The majority votes, any comments can be made, but no one responds. We must provide for a regulatory change that allows the debate not to exclude it, because it seems to me that this solution wants to widen the hypothesis that I referred to in relation to the Commission, where the majority votes and - strong in numbers - imposes its position, without any possibility of real comparison. This will also happen in this House and it would be a tragedy for our Republic! [[Applause from Senator Buemi]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-918.ana.u26	Senator Campanella is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-918.ana.u27	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, I believe that in the analysis of this amendment to the Rules of Procedure, we should pay attention to what role we want Parliament and the Senate to play in this case: if, as I have seen so many times, it must simply be the sounding board of the Government and the party organisations, or if, on the contrary, it must actually be a place of preparation and decision in order to obtain legislation not only faster but also more effective quality. If we read most of the laws that have been passed in recent years, we can agree, without great problems, that they are badly written, because they are difficult to understand and need a laborious interpretation, sometimes complicated even for the operators of the law. Surely, therefore, we need a clearer and more readable regulatory production, better, not necessarily faster. This does not mean that activity must be slow and that this House must become unproductive. When there is one of the various proposals for amendments aimed at increasing the readiness to work in the drawing up of the Commissions, i.e. an operation whereby a deliberate article text can come out of the Commission, which is then to be voted on by the House as a whole, I consider it carefully and with interest. Already the deliberating seat, which excludes the intervention of the Assembly, for which there is a real deliberation in the Commission, leaves me much more perplexed. Overall, I am concerned about the reduction in the scope of intervention in the processes by the individual Members of this House. This, unfortunately, seems to me to be the overall spirit of the amendment that we are going to vote on. I come from a very complex story, as did some colleagues who preceded me, within a parliamentary group that very little or no room for dissent. If we imagine to cancel - as that Group thinks it is doing - the prohibition of a mandatory mandate and therefore to state (it should be done in the Constitution) that the parliamentarians must adapt to what is laid down, at the time of the mandate, by the party, this type of change and this type of path could make sense. But if we think that each of us must express, in science and conscience, our opinion and our vote on the issues that are being proposed to him, it becomes more complex. You see, what people are asking, from what I have been able to understand over the past five years, is for the parties' commitments to their electorate to be respected. The problem is that often parties do not do so. For the most varied reasons, it may happen that a party that, for example, had undertaken to assert the opinion of each of its members, instead considers it simply a fan, as happened to the Democratic Party and the 5 Star Movement. At this point, what should a Member who intends to comply with the commitments made with the electorate (which he should actually depend on) at the time of the election do? Follow the new way of thinking, the new decisions of the party to which he joined, then follow him in this departure from the party's mandate, or respect the mandate he had assumed with the voters at the beginning? I think you should do this second thing. But at this point, why penalize... [[The microphone is automatically switched off.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-918.ana.u28	Conclude, Senator. I'll give you a minute, because I'm stiff.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-918.ana.u29	Campanella (Art.1-MDP-LEU). Thank you very much. But, at this point, why penalise the group of Members who, in keeping with the initial mandate, ask to continue their work under that sign? I think it is useful to have a debate and listen to each other during this general debate, in order to achieve an optimal result for this amendment to the Rules of Procedure, which may be a good opportunity to improve the work of this House. [[Applause from Senators Bocchino and Cervellini.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-918.ana.u30	He's enlisted to speak Senator Malan. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-918.ana.u31	Madam President, the proposed reform of the Rules of Procedure that comes to this House is proof that we can have an approach that involves all political forces in making small or large reforms of our institutions. This can be done on condition that you have a pragmatic approach and try to make rules that better meet the needs of the institutions, in this case of the Senate, and do not make partisan convenience. I believe that if in future we return - I hope so - to think about reforms of the Constitution, we will have to work with the method in which we have worked on this reform of the Rules of Procedure and not with that adopted in the previous part of the legislature for the reform of the Constitution which, not by chance, has been rejected by the Italians. Coming to the content of this reform, the understanding is to make the work more efficient and speedy and avoid wasting time on formal issues. I think this is a good thing. I remember that it is not always good to conform to what the House of Deputies does, because in the other branch of Parliament they have not managed to combine anything. So let's proceed with caution. However, where things work best in the House of Things, then let them well come. I am thinking, for example, of the mechanism that simplifies the request for electronic voting, providing that, instead of requesting it every time, as has always been provided for in the Senate Rules, a group or an adequate number of senators may request it with reference to several votes. This would avoid a great waste of time. Then there are the rules that discourage the transitions from one group to another or - better - prohibit the formation of new parliamentary groups, unless they reflect parties that came to the elections and saw their representatives elected. In itself, it is certainly to be welcomed that the tendency towards transformation which some Members of Parliament have expressed is not to be overshadowed. It should be said, however, that, in this way, it will be impossible for elected senators on the left who feel that they no longer recognize themselves in the Group they belong to to to form a new Left Group. This may make sense, but none of these senators can be prevented from moving to a group on the opposite side. Therefore, an elected senator on the left will have no difficulty in moving to a right-wing group, which - in short - is somewhat inconsistent with the other prohibition. I am now talking in general about the rules that the reform intends to introduce. The new rules can partly lead to a change in behaviour - hopefully, of course, in a positive way - but they do not change the true orientations. I am convinced that many of my colleagues - the great majority - who have changed Group have done so because they no longer recognized each other in the Group. They may then be wrong or right, of course, but in any case this phenomenon exists and has always existed, particularly in this parliamentary term. If then the voters of these parliamentarians feel that they were wrong to leave the Group and prefer the parent company, then they will manifest it at the time of voting, punishing the groups that eventually arise in this way. If we applied the rules contained in the reform to the situation of this legislature, we would have a Mixed Group of 90 or 100 members, if not more. I do not think that if the reform were already in force, the senators would have let it go and would have remained in the Group. At least a very large part of them would come out of the Groups of membership and give rise to a huge Mixed Group, which would be subject to the same rules as the others (and here you can also stand) and the rules would be stiffened. Let us think of a hypothetical case, which I hope will remain so, because I believe that physiology should be that a political movement should be present at the elections and that its representatives, with some divergence within them, remain in the Group and express themselves during the voting. But when this does not happen, it would mean that this Mixed Group, where there would be people on the right, left, centre, coming from various sides, would have the right to express a single explanation of vote in an important series of circumstances without giving any account of the variety of representations it can have and which, indeed, even today has within it. It is also right that he has at his disposal the same time as other groups, therefore, but the rigidity of the rule that only one person can speak is excessive. I would also like to thank Senators Palma and Caliendo for raising the question of the illustration of the amendments: this is not just about protecting dissent, because there is not only that, but there are also the different points that can emerge in the amendments to a single article. Physically, an article should consist, in fact, of five, six or seven paragraphs, but many times we have seen articles of 500 or 700 paragraphs. At other times, while remaining in physiology, when you reform an article of the penal code or the civil code, the article is usually only one, because if you reform an article of the penal code, it will be only one article that expresses it. There can therefore be not only dissent, of course this too, but also a number of points of view that it would be interesting to hear in the explanation of the amendments before the rapporteur speaks. Then the rapporteur may come back to his own steps, but I think it would be better not to trust too much, in changing the rules, in the fact that then there will be the discretion of the Presidency, because otherwise we keep discretion and let alone the rules. We know that a President would hardly say no to a senator who wants to explain a particular aspect, but should do so not in the context of discretion, but even in violation of the Rules of Procedure. With regard to the risk of excessively tightening up the rules, it must be borne in mind that the very great part of the Commission's work which is to be strengthened by this reform is governed by the same rules as for this House, for example as regards the duration of the interventions. It would have been appropriate, then, to introduce something specific for the Commission, because if it can have justification - even if in my opinion it is excessive - the fact of limiting the explanation of the amendments, namely the intervention on the whole of the amendments in this House, in the Commission, in order to be able to intervene, if no amendments have been tabled on an article, there is no way of doing so: one can intervene, even there, only once the rapporteur has expressed himself and in an explanation of vote, perhaps dissenting, but also without dissenting, because the rules are the same, so everything we see in this House should be applied in the Commission, unless the President of the Commission, even in that case arbitrarily and discreetly, uses the common sense of the Rules of Procedure and says that since that rule is not valid in the Commission. However, if we take action on the Rules of Procedure, it should be to clarify the rules and not to tighten them up to the point of making it necessary or even indispensable in certain cases to derogate from these rules. I would be to have fewer rules and no exceptions, rather than more rules and many derogations. Having said that, in thanking the members of the Committee on the Rules of Procedure for the work they have done in the Commission, including in the examination of the amendments tabled to the House, I see that there is a further deepening and improvement in the debate on the amendments that will be discussed tomorrow. [[Applause from Senators Mandelli and Rizzotti. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-918.ana.u32	On behalf of the Assembly, I greet the teachers and students of the State Science High School Donato Bramante in Magenta, in the province of Milan, who are attending our work. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-918.ana.u33	He's enlisted to speak Senator Russo. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-918.ana.u34	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, I believe that the 17th parliamentary term, born without a parliamentary majority, at least in this branch of Parliament, will be remembered, when the time of the political chronicle will leave room for the small parliamentary history, as an important legislature, not only for the measures adopted or for the support of governments that have helped the country in a difficult moment in its history, but also and above all as a responsible legislature, which on numerous occasions has seen the meaning and the need of the things to do, for the common good, prevail among us, beyond the normal dialectic between the parties. Let me say that this spirit of responsibility is also reflected in this reform of the Rules of Procedure, which I hope we will all agree on tomorrow. I really wish we could all get out of here, in what is probably our last week of parliamentary work, an act, not only of responsibility but - I will be allowed the term - of affection towards the institutions. For this reason, it is right to recall the commitment of the Committee, composed of Mr Bernini, Mr Buccarella, Mr Calderoli and Mr Zanda, for a reason which this House gives to the next legislatures, giving priority to an act which will certainly not have any electoral impact for our parties and for which no citizen will certainly stop on the way to thank us, but which wants, forty years after the 1971 reforms, to update a decisive instrument for the proper functioning of the parliamentary institutions. A new regulation - let me say this - has its roots in the work carried out in previous legislation. I want to acknowledge here the Zanda-Finocchiaro proposal, presented a few years ago, the merit of having been the towel on the basis of which we have all moved in recent months. It is a reform that I believe will facilitate the political confrontation, within a system for the first time tripolar, even if in its application it will have to take into account the recent transition from a law of majority planting to a predominantly proportional one. How many times, ladies and gentlemen, in order to get to the point, we have said that, even if we shared European experience, the work of the Senate would benefit from the exploitation of work in the Commission. A work carried out far from the temptations of a debate in the light of the television spotlight, sometimes distorted by the understandable need to speak more outside of this House than between us, for a work of legislative drafting as fruitful as possible. For this reason, the provision of Article 2, which introduces the criterion of the allocation of drafts of law normally in the deliberating and drafting session, really represents the best contribution in a frank comparison, of merit, but more and more aimed at a timely approval of the norms and the simplification of the parliamentary work. From this point of view, as some Members have mentioned, the forecast of weeks of parliamentary work devoted entirely to deepening and voting in the Commission is not only in line with the best European practice, but also in line with the needs, which we, too, have repeatedly expressed, of a reasonable time at the most natural forum, which is the Commission on the substance. Finally, in relation to the reorganization of the standing committees, let me mention the equalization of the 14th Political Commissions of the European Union to all the other permanent Commissions and to greet it as an absolutely positive fact. Those who speak have, in fact, been promoting, in the course of constitutional reform, rules that would enhance, in particular this branch of Parliament, that role of protagonism in relation to the legislative acts of the European Union, in its ascending and descending phase, which the Treaty of Lisbon entrusts to national parliaments in an innovative way. For this reason, I consider the best focus of the work of the 14th Commission as a substantial contribution to the specialization and further qualification of this House. Those who, like myself, have had the task in recent years of closely following the more technical aspects of the work of this House cannot but be particularly satisfied with the provisions which, in Article 3, go in the direction of simplifying and rationalising the work of the Senate. The introduction of single sessions, the general reduction to ten minutes of the individual senators' speaking time, the cancellation of the references to the CNEL, the overcoming of the abstention vote as a vote against and the request of the quorum at the beginning of the session, which had now become mere obstructionist practice, the general voting by electronic procedure, the new discipline of the question time, are all choices that can only improve the speed and quality of the work of the Chamber, favoring a more profitable confrontation between majority and opposition. Finally, I would like to draw attention to the innovations which are also reminiscent of the debate we have had in recent years on the Constitution and on some aspects of the reform that I think many of us have shared. I am referring in particular to the possibility of guaranteeing a preferential lane to certain types of acts, in particular when presented by qualified minorities, which are thus guaranteed in relation to the possibility of seeing their proposals discussed. In particular, however, I would like to mention an institution of direct democracy which we already tried in some way to include in the reform submitted to referendum on 4 December. Thanks to the new Rules of Procedure, the examination of the draft law of popular initiative will have to be concluded within three months of the allocation and if this time passed unnecessarily the proposal will be automatically entered in the calendar of the proceedings of the Assembly on the basis of the text of the proposers. In fact, at a time when all of us are committed to bringing citizens closer to the institutions, to promoting new instruments of participation that re-launch our representative democracy and give more direct access to the legislative process, let me say that this shared choice is good for everyone and I hope both among the things that together we will claim, also to signal to the Italians that politics and Parliament are much better than how, not only a certain vulgata whatever, but also sometimes we are tempted to paint, perhaps because of a little biased controversy. Dear colleagues, it is a very good signal to conclude this parliamentary term with an act shared by all the parties in this House. We are sure it will also stimulate the Chamber of Deputies, because - and we want to reiterate it with our vote - if Parliament will be able to regain further efficiency and transparency, and with them a new authority, the country will also recover a motor of democracy and change around which to bring together the best energies and passions of the Italians, to overcome together the extraordinary challenges that await all of us in the coming years. [[Applause from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-918.ana.u35	The debate is closed. I shall refer the document back to another sitting.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-918.ana.u36	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-918.ana.u37	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-918.ana.u38	DIRINDIN (Art. 1-MDP-LEU). Madam President, I have asked to speak about an emergency that is too little talked about, namely that of suicides in prison. In prisons, prisoners and workers who work there are killed. There has been a very worrying sequence of cases in the last few weeks: Saturday, December 9, he hanged himself in Terni prison a thirty-six-year-old Moroccan in isolation because he would attack a prison agent; on the night of the same day, in seeking maximum security in Tolmezzo, a 51-year-old prison agent took his life by shooting himself with his gun; and this was a prison agent. The previous day, Friday, December 8th, a 60-year-old man accused of receiving a prescription had hanged himself in Regina Coeli's prison. Thursday, December 7 (the previous day) a 32-year-old transsexual, in isolation in the prison of Rimini, attempted suicide in protest and would now still be in resuscitation at the hospital in Rimini. Even at the end of August there was a series of serious, very serious events which, although the department of the penitentiary administration has been given attention, confirm an emergency that has not yet been adequately addressed and which I would like to report to the Presidency. I am sorry that there is no representative of the Government at the moment, but I hope that the Presidency can take on this concern. On August 27 in Monza a recluse took his life inhaling the gas from the can given to cook; again on August 27 in Saluzzo a prisoner attempted suicide in prison and died shortly after in hospital, with the result that he did not die in prison, but actually committed suicide and then was transported to hospital. Also at the end of August there were two deaths in one day: one in the prison of Pisa and another in Turin, a Croatian of twenty-seven years. Since the beginning of the year there would have been 49 suicides of restricted people, although they are officially less because they do not count those who die in hospital or who committed suicide during the premium permits. In the last three years - according to the statistics of the Antigone association - 56 prison agents have taken their lives. In fact, the serious acts, always reported, in the specific case, by the statistics of the union of the prison agents, are much more substantial: in the first six months of 2017, 4,310 acts of self-harm among the prisoners; 3,562 struggles; 541 injuries. For the union, prisons would be safer if prison police officers who are missing were hired: 8,000 fewer than the planned staff. Just give me a few more minutes, Madam President, please. The phenomenon of suicides in prison is very complex and delicate and it is not possible, of course, to make easy simplifications in order to identify the causes. Overcrowding certainly does not help and the lack of enforcement by the health administration and the administration of justice is a serious injury to prisoners and operators. The protection of the health of the excluded person is recognized by Article 27 of the Constitution - I do not want to dwell on all the rules that implement that article - as well as by Article 32, of course, which concerns all individuals, not only those in freedom, and by the rules that subsequently, from 1999, and then in 2008, have finally stated that the health of the restricted persons must be borne by the health administration, just like the health of all the other people living in this country. The State-Regions Conference recently approved two measures proposed by the Government: a plan for the prevention of suicides among adults and another plan for the prevention of suicides and the risk of self-harm for children, because this is unfortunately also the case for children confined in prison. These plans, which date back a few months ago, indicate a road that can hardly be crossed to the end in prisons. The administration lacks staff, training and above all that extreme sensitivity that could make life in prison less vulnerable. I'm gonna make one last report, which is really sad. For a few weeks the penitentiary administration has issued a circular that does not concern these phenomena, but that affects the climate in which you live inside the prison, asking, since the water pipes are colabrodes, to close the water from evening to morning in all the prisons and to equip each cell with a tank with water, so that the dispersion of the same and its costs can be reduced. This really is an inadequate solution. Meanwhile, I wonder how much money will have to be spent to equip all the necessary canisters and, secondly, how much the organization of a prison will suffer, given the already difficult conditions that have been indicated. There is a need for specific intervention on this point. I understand that at the end of the legislature it will be difficult, but we cannot neglect this emergency because it is a sign of civilization for the whole country. [[Applause from the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-918.ana.u39	Thank you, Senator Dirindin, for submitting such an important subject to us.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-918.ana.u40	The motions, questions and questions received by the Presidency will be published in Annex B to today's report.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-918.ana.u41	The Senate will meet again in public tomorrow, 20 December, at 9.30 a.m., with the following agenda: (See agenda) The sitting was closed at 15.44 p.m.
