ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-789.ana.u1	The sitting was opened at 16.35 a.m. The Minutes shall be read. Mr Amati, secretary, read the Minutes of the afternoon sitting of 16 March. PRESIDENT. - The debate is Since there were no comments, the Minutes were approved.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-789.ana.u2	The list of senators on leave and absent on assignment received from the Senate, as well as further communications to the Assembly, will be published in Annex B to today's Minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-789.ana.u3	Colleagues, I would like to inform you that the Conference of Presidents of the Parliamentary Groups is being held and that I am therefore suspending the sitting until its conclusion. The sitting is suspended. (The sitting was suspended at 16.36 a.m. and resumed at 16.57 a.m.)
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-789.ana.u4	Ladies and gentlemen, this speech is on the occasion of the celebrations of the first National Day of Memory and Commitment in memory of the victims of the Mafia. Ladies and gentlemen, it was 1996 when Libera di Don Luigi Ciotti chose 21 March, the first day of spring, to give public reading of the very long list of names of men, women and children who lost their lives by the mob. From then on, from year to year, 21 March has become the moment when ideally the entire Nation embraces its fallen in a battle, the battle for legality, which we certainly cannot consider concluded. On 1 March of this year, the Chamber of Deputies finally passed the law establishing the National Day of Memory and Commitment in memory of the victims of the Mafia. In this way we wanted to give further strength to a demonstration that involves, from North to South, thousands of our fellow citizens, hundreds of schools and associations, a very large number of realities united in the common will to engage in legality, justice and truth. It could be objected that the establishment of a day of memory can only represent a formal occasion of remembrance, similar to many others, that can quickly become a hypocritical and empty celebration, rather than a moment of true and heartfelt mourning, that the fight against the mafias needs much more to be continued and won. These are certainly observations to be taken into account, but, in my opinion, they betray the deepest sense that animates the initiatives that are coloring the squares throughout Italy. In the names, almost a thousand, that make up the sad and long list of victims and that are scanned today is represented our whole community, wounded and vile in all its parts, in every portion. Not only, in fact, men and women who have sworn allegiance to the Republic, such as magistrates, policemen, carabinieri, financiers, men of the institutions, but also citizens who have not wanted to bow their heads to the violence, injustices perpetrated by the mobsters, such as the dozens of traders, entrepreneurs, journalists, men of faith, volunteers, teachers who unfortunately are no longer there. Then there are many other innocent victims, often students or children, guilty only of being in the wrong place at the wrong time. Some names, by virtue of the extraordinary lives that have lived in the service of the nation, are unanimously recognized and remembered as examples to be inspired; On the other hand, others are relegated to the private dimension of the pain of their families. Their stories, all their stories, deserve to be told and known by all of us, because each of them has equal dignity and equal value, because each of these splinters of private suffering must be part, in full title, of a public feeling; because whoever carries this unsustainable burden must never feel alone, but instead must be able to count on all of us. This is the deepest sense of being and acting as a community. Wrong is who thinks this is none of our business. The mafias brutally broke the lives of children, grandchildren, mothers, sisters, colleagues, neighbors, schoolmates, acquaintances; sometimes it was only for luck that their tragic epilogues were not ours too. The victims of the mob are a huge piece of Italy that testifies, with the crudeness of the absence and the intensity of a pain never endured, how urgent and strong our commitment must be to defeat organized crime. It is necessary that everyone, each according to his/her own possibilities and competences, should play their part. We are all called into question: no one feels dispensed, no one feels excluded. President Mattarella said in Calabria on Sunday: The Mafia is still strong, it is still present. He controls economic, legal and illegal activities, tries to dominate pieces of territory, tries to enlist in every environment. It is necessary to clear the grey areas, those of complicity, which are the cultivation ground of many corrupting plots. In addition to the instruments of prevention and repression, it is necessary to improve those to drain the swamps of inefficiency, of arbitrariness, of clientelism, of favoritism, of corruption, of the lack of state, which are the natural environment in which the mafias live and prosper. The various political and administrative levels must be faithful to their duties and, therefore, impervious to mafia infiltrations and pressures. We are the first recipients of these words. This Assembly has the supreme responsibility to be and to appear up to the great challenge facing the entire country. There are many legislative proposals and measures which would give new impetus to the fight against organised crime and which have been waiting too long to be discussed and approved by Parliament. The history of anti-Mafia tells of how the greatest successes were achieved when the best forces in the country, from politics to the judiciary to civil society, joined in the common goal of making the culture of legality prevail over the mafia, the rule of law over the violence of the thighs, the force of justice over abuse and the need for truth about lies and omissions. We can do much, but we need courage and dedication, those who have animated the men and women who have served Italy to the extreme sacrifice; those who guide the action of those who, at all levels, make good politics; those who inspire the daily work of so many associations, schools, editors, police officers, courtrooms; those whom I have seen in the eyes of the people who have filled the streets of Locri with hope this morning; those who give the strength to so many of our fellow citizens to rebel and shout their no to compromises. Only together can we do this. It's up to us, to all of us, to give full value to March 21, really transform it on the first day of a spring of legality. We have the right, but also the duty to achieve this ambition. In the memory of all the victims of the mob, I invite the House to observe a minute's silence and recollection. [[The Assembly observed a minute's silence. Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-789.ana.u5	The Conference of Leaders approved the agenda of the Assembly until 13 April, which takes into account the topics already foreseen in the previous calendar, with some additions. [[Comments of Senator Giarrusso]] Senator Giarrusso, this is a practice we have; at the end of the session you will be able to do all your speeches. GIARRUSSO (M5S). All right, thanks. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. The integrations concern: the reports of the Parliamentary Committee of Inquiry on Aldo Moro, in the week from 28 to 30 March; the decree-law on seismic events of 2016 and 2017, in the week from 4 to 6 April; the decree-law on the safety of cities and the resolution approved by the 10th Permanent Commission on the subject of participating companies, in the week from 11 to 13 April. The afternoon sessions on Tuesday, from 11 a.m. to 1 p.m., will be devoted to discussing the following motions: Down syndrome (March 28); reform of the Common Agricultural Policy (CAP) and other agricultural motions (April 4); hepatitis C and stomached (April 11). At the opening of the afternoon session on Wednesday, March 29th, she will be called for the election by secret ballot, through ballots, of three Secretary Senators. Once the schedule of proceedings has been set, today's sitting will be removed to allow the Commissions to bring together constitutional affairs and justice to conclude the examination of the decree-law on international protection and the fight against illegal immigration. The debate in the House on the measure will begin at tomorrow's afternoon sitting. As already announced, tomorrow morning the Assembly will not hold a sitting to allow senators to participate in the celebration of the 60th anniversary of the signing of the Treaties establishing the European Communities, which will take place at 11.30 a.m. in the Chamber of Montecitorio, in the presence of the President of the Republic.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-789.ana.u6	The Conference of Presidents of Parliamentary Groups, meeting today with the presence of the Vice Presidents of the Senate and with the intervention of the representative of the Government, adopted - pursuant to Rule 53 of the Rules of Procedure - the following additions to the program of the Senate's work for the months of January, February and March 2017: - Documents XXIII, nos. 10 and 23 - Reports on the activity carried out by the Parliamentary Committee of Inquiry into the abduction and death of Aldo Moro - Document XXIV, n. 73 - Resolution of the 10th Permanent Commission, pursuant to Article 50 (2) of the Regulation, at the conclusion of the examination of the deal assigned on the results of the main companies directly or indirectly participated by the State, with particular reference to the areas of interest of the Commission, both from the sectoral point of view and from the point of view of competition
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-789.ana.u7	During the same meeting, the Conference of Presidents of the parliamentary groups also adopted - in accordance with Rule 55 of the Rules of Procedure - the timetable for proceedings from 21 March to 13 April 2017: [[Tuesday, March 21 pom. h. 16,30-20 - Drawing of law n. 2705 - Decree-Law n. 13, international protection and illegal immigration law (It falls on 18 April) (Final vote before 22 March) - Drawing of law n. 624 and related - Establishment of a parliamentary commission of inquiry on the banking system Wednesday 22 " pom. h. 16,30-20 Thursday 23 " ant. h. 9.30 Thursday 23 March pom. H. 16 - Questions and questions]] On Wednesday morning, 22 March, the Assembly will not hold a session in connection with the celebration of the 60th anniversary of the signing of the Treaties establishing the European Communities, which will take place at 11.30 a.m. in the Montecitorio Chamber, in the presence of the President of the Republic. [[Tuesday 28 March ant. h. 11-13 - Motions on Down syndrome Tuesday, March 28 pom. h. 16,30-20 - Possible follow-up to unconcluded arguments - Draft law n. 2092 and related - Provisions on citizenship (Approved by the Chamber of Deputies) (Ove concluded by the Commission) - Votes for the election of three Secretary Senators (Secret ballot votes by ballot) (Wednesday 29, 9.30 a.m.) (*) - Doc. No XXIII, nos. 10 and 23 - Reports of the Parliamentary Committee of Inquiry into the Abduction and Death of Aldo Moro - Follow-up to the bill No 10-362-388-395-849-874-B - Crime of torture (Approved by the Senate and amended by the Chamber of Deputies) - Drawing of Law No 302 and related - Recognition of the Italian language of signs Wednesday 29 " ant. h. 9,30-13 " " " pom. h. 16,30-20 Thursday 30 " ant. h. 9,30-14 Thursday, March 30 pom. H. 16 - Questions and questions]] The deadline for tabling amendments to bill No 2092 and related (Citizenship provisions) will be fixed in relation to the Commission's work. (*) The call for a secret ballot will be made by ballot at the beginning of the afternoon sitting on Wednesday 29. The ballot boxes will then remain open until 12.30 p.m. [[Tuesday 4 April ant. h. 11-13 - Motions on the reform of the Common Agricultural Policy and others on agriculture Tuesday 4 April pm. h. 16,30-20 - Eventually followed unfinished arguments - Drawing of law n..... - Decree-Law n. 8, new urgent interventions for seismic events 2016-2017 (Ove transmitted in good time by the Chamber of Deputies) (Scade on 10 April) - Drawing of law n. 2085 - Annual Market and Competition Law (Approved by the Chamber of Deputies) (Linked to the Public Finance Maneuver) (Final vote with the presence of the legal number) - Drawing of constitutional law n. 2643 - Changes to the special statute for Trentino-Alto Adige/Südtirol in the matter of protection of the Ladin linguistic minority (Approved by the Chamber of Deputies) (First resolution of the Senate) (Final vote with the presence of the legal number) (Ove concluded by the Commission) - Drawing of law n. 2441 - Changes to the penal code to counter the phenomenon of forced and early marriages (Ove concluded by the Commission) Wednesday 5 " ant. h. 9,30-13 " " " pom. h. 16,30-20 Thursday 6 " ant. h. 9.30-14 Thursday 6 April pom. H. 16 - Questions and questions]] The deadline for tabling amendments to the bill no.... (Decree-Law No. 8, new urgent interventions for seismic events 2016-2017) will be established in relation to the transmission times by the Chamber of Deputies. The deadline for tabling amendments to constitutional bill No 2643 (Ladin linguistic minority) and bill No 2441 (Contrast phenomenon of forced and early marriages) will be established in relation to the work of the Commissions. [[Tuesday 11 April ant. h. 11-13 - Motions on hepatitis C and Stomized Subjects Tuesday, April 11 pom. h. 16,30-20 - Possible follow-up of unfinished topics - Drawing of law n. 2754 - Decree-Law n. 14, safety of the cities (Approved by the Chamber of Deputies) (It falls on 21 April) - Doc. XXIV, n. 73 - Resolution of the 10th Permanent Commission at the conclusion of the deal awarded on the results of the main companies directly or indirectly participated by the State Wednesday 12 " ant. h. 9,30-13 " " " pom. h. 16,30-20 Thursday 13 " ant. h. 9,30]] Amendments to bill No 2754 (Decree-Law No 14, City Security) will have to be tabled by 1 p.m. on Thursday 6 April. Time distribution for discussion of bill No 2705 (Decree-Law No 13, international protection and illegal immigration law) (10 hours, excluding explanations of vote) [[Speakers 1h. Government 1h. Votes 1h. Groups 7 hours, of which: PD 1 h. 24' FI-PdL XVII 47' M5S 42' Mixed 41' AP-CpE 37' Aut (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT)-PSI-MAIE 32' ALA-SCCLP 30' GAL (GS, PpI, M, Id, E-E, MPL, RI) 28' Art. 1-MDP 28' LN-Aut 27' CoR 25' Dissentents 5']] Time distribution for discussion of the bill n.... (Decree-Law n. 8, new urgent interventions for seismic events 2016-2017) (7 hours, excluding explanations of vote) [[Rapporteur 40' Government 40' Votes 40' Groups 5 hours, of which: PD 1 h. FI-PdL XVII 33' M5S 30' Mixed 29' AP-CpE 26' Aut (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT)-PSI-MAIE 23' ALA-SCLP 21' GAL (GS, PPI, M, Id, E-E, MPL, RI) 20' Art. 1-MDP 20' LN-Aut 19' CoR 18' Dissentents 5']] Time distribution for discussion of draft law No 2085 (annual market law and competition) (10 hours, excluding explanations of vote) [[Speakers 1h. Government 1h. Votes 1h. Groups 7 hours, of which: PD 1 h. 24' FI-PdL XVII 47' M5S 42' Mixed 41' AP-CpE 37' Aut (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT)-PSI-MAIE 32' ALA-SCCLP 30' GAL (GS, PpI, M, Id, E-E, MPL, RI) 28' Art. 1-MDP 28' LN-Aut 27' CoR 25' Dissentents 5']] Time distribution for discussion of bill No 2754 (Decree-Law No 14, City Security) (7 hours, excluding explanations of vote) [[Rapporteur 40' Government 40' Votes 40' Groups 5 hours, of which: PD 1 h. FI-PdL XVII 33' M5S 30' Mixed 29' AP-CpE 26' Aut (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT)-PSI-MAIE 23' ALA-SCLP 21' GAL (GS, PPI, M, Id, E-E, MPL, RI) 20' Art. 1-MDP 20' LN-Aut 19' CoR 18' Dissentents 5']]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-789.ana.u8	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-789.ana.u9	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-789.ana.u10	DE PETRIS (Misto-SI-SEL). Mr President, as you know, it has long been immemorial that, in the customary motions of Tuesday morning, there are no motions tabled by our Group; I think they have been months now. We simply asked to be able to schedule an important motion (also because it has a deadline compared to the United Nations), which concerns nuclear weapons and disarmament. Of all those that you have listed - perhaps I have distracted myself - I do not think that there is any mention of this motion of ours, while any one has been scheduled. Then there is another matter. You referred here, when you read the timetable, with reference to the week from 11 to 13 April, to the timetable for the resolution adopted by the 10th Permanent Commission, at the end of the deal allocated to it on the results of the direct and indirect companies involved. In this regard, I renew your request that at least one of our motions on the Council be discussed at the same time (I believe that there is another). We have tabled a very precise motion on the Council, which concerns summits, but also more generally its mission. I therefore believe that it is absolutely appropriate to discuss this with the resolution. Finally, there are more and more pressing rumors about the events of the participants and we are discussing a privatisation hypothesis for an additional 15% of the Deposit and Loan Fund. We have asked, together with other colleagues, for the presence of Minister Padoan to be able to discuss this further privatisation. For all these reasons, I would ask that these requests be included in our timetable.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-789.ana.u11	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-789.ana.u12	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-789.ana.u13	FALANGA (ALA-SCLP). Mr President, my speech is for the autonomy of our Senate. This morning I learned that the deputy prosecutor of the Republic of Rome, Dr. Maiorano, denied the sending of acts to the Council of Parliamentary Elections and Immunities. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator Falanga, we are dealing with requests for change and integration to the calendar. This intervention will be able to do so later. FALANGA (ALA-SCLP). Mr President, there is a motion for referral back to trial for myself. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I get it, but we're talking about the calendar. If you make a request for a change in the timetable, you may intervene. FALANGA (ALA-SCLP). Then I make a request to change the calendar after giving the reason. I have made a criticism to the President of the Chamber's Justice Commission about the regulation of the return of magistrates after political experience. The measure has been blocked in the House for about two years because - I told the press, but before that I spoke about it in all the fora, including this, and the Bureau of the Commission Justice - there was an insistence on the adoption of an amendment requiring the magistrates, after political experience, to go directly to the Supreme Court. This happened in good time the day before yesterday, when in the Commission justice the measure was thus changed by providing that after parliamentary experience the magistrate, returning to the roles, must go to the Supreme Court or to the national prosecutor anti-mafia or to the general prosecutor. I have made a purely political criticism, and therefore I have asked the prosecutor of the Republic of Rome to return to the Senate and the Assembly of Parliamentary Elections and Immunities the acts of criminal proceedings which had been the subject of these statements. My request has been rejected. I am not just speaking for myself, but every single senator must have the opportunity to express first in the institutional fora - which I have done - and then in all the other fora, such as television and press, his own views on the conduct and legislative activities of one organ or, in any case, another colleague. This right has been denied to me. Mr President, I will ask you, on your own, to return the acts and ask the Republic's prosecutor to take action in order to raise a possible conflict of attribution and to ask the Council of Parliamentary Elections and Immunities of this Senate to express their views on whether I have offended Mr Ferranti or simply criticized his political action. Personally, I also wrote a letter to Mr Ferranti stating that I never intended to offend his person and that I merely criticized his political action. Mr President, you help me - I understand that we are on the calendar - to find a solution that justifies the possibility of having an outlet because this is the first time I have received a guarantee notice and a request for referral back to trial for having done my work as a Member of Parliament. So, you can well understand my state of mind. I am not used to attending courtrooms as a defendant and I ask that the Senate defend me and defend the function of the parliamentarians. Mr President, I would ask you to put the measure on citizenship income before the timetable. [[Applause from the ALA-SCCLP Group. Comments of the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-789.ana.u14	Mr President, I fully understand that we must first discuss the timetable. I would simply ask you, once the voting on the proposed changes to the agenda has been completed, to give me the floor to speak on what Senator Falanga has said.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-789.ana.u15	All right, Senator Palma.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-789.ana.u16	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-789.ana.u17	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-789.ana.u18	BOTTICS (M5S). Mr President, since you think that the sitting should be suspended this afternoon...
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-789.ana.u19	Not in my opinion, Senator Bottici, but according to the Conference of Group Presidents. It is not my personal opinion, but a resolution of the Conference of Leaders.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-789.ana.u20	I correct myself: since the majority sets the timetable for this House (is that okay?) In view of the fact that the sitting will soon be closed, I would ask that the House be convened and that the draft law be discussed for the establishment of the Committee of Inquiry into the banking system. In fact, in the light of Senator Zanda's statements in the newspapers that it would be better not to set it up, and the words of the President of the 6th Commission and Mr Marcucci, who, on the other hand, want to address the debate on the banking system, I believe that we could seize this opportunity and carry out the general debate immediately without wasting any more time, also because the second passage to the House will then be necessary and I would never want the time to be too long. I would also ask you to include in the timetable the measure to establish the Committee of Inquiry into the Il Forteto community (I repeat that today we are fifty-six days old and I will repeat the concept every day), because the majority and the PD that govern the Tuscany Region that is involved in the scandal continue to block it. So, I invite President Zanda to allow us to incardinate this measure. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-789.ana.u21	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-789.ana.u22	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-789.ana.u23	VACCIANO (Mixed). Mr President, I support what Mrs Bottici has just asked about the Committee of Inquiry into the banking system and, where it was not possible to include the bill on the agenda of today's sitting, because we believe that we must close our work in advance, I would ask that it be included at the first useful sitting. It does not escape that this is a measure for the establishment of a Commission of Inquiry which the 6th Commission has dealt with in a very short time, precisely in order to bring it to the Chamber as soon as possible, and because we realize that, for the matter being dealt with, extremely extensive, even if the legislature were to last until its natural expiry, dealing with such a sensitive subject in such a short time leads to extremely limited results even in the present state of affairs. It would therefore be appropriate not to turn it into a fig leaf and a mockery, fire it as soon as possible and work hard to bring a minimum result that gives satisfaction to citizens more or less cheated by the various banking events. I would also like to ask for the calendarization of motion 646, filed on 11 October 2016, concerning the psychophysical wear of teachers. We hear more and more about bad children and cameras that need to be installed in kindergartens and facilities that host younger children. It is certainly a useful proposal and a deterrent, but it is like closing the stable after the oxen have fled. In fact, while we put on the cameras and do all these nice things, the kids have already beaten them. Therefore, it would be appropriate to question why these events happen and the psychophysical wear of teachers, in particular those who take care of preschool children (three to six years old), but also of younger children, and who find themselves seeing their users rejuvenate, while they, for a natural matter, age. Therefore, with this motion it would be appropriate to address this problem in this House. I repeat, however, that the absolute priority is to initiate the Commission's inquiry into banks, otherwise it really becomes a mockery. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-789.ana.u24	I would remind you that the establishment of the Committee of Inquiry into Banks is already on schedule and comes after a decree-law. [[Senator Vacciano's comments.]] I understand that your request is to anticipate it, but I wanted to point out that it is already included in the calendar.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-789.ana.u25	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-789.ana.u26	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-789.ana.u27	AUGELLO (CoR). Mr President, as I have already done in the margins of the debate on the motion of no confidence to Mr Lotti, I would like to turn to you and to the House the need to quickly schedule the motion on the Council, which is not the only one on the subject, because there are others. The motion of which I am the first signatory calls for the substantial zeroing of the summits of the Council and is made even more urgent by the events that emerged during the debate and by the intervention of Minister Lotti himself. I would remind you, therefore, that on your table and on that of the Conference of Leaders there is not only the motion signed by me and 23 other senators, but also others, among which - if I recall correctly - the motion signed by my colleague Mr De Petris. I believe that the debate that we have left behind on the distrust of Mr Lotti makes the debate on these two motions very urgent and possibly others that have been tabled on this subject.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-789.ana.u28	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-789.ana.u29	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-789.ana.u30	Montevecchi (M5S). Mr President, I would first like to reiterate the request made by Senator Bottici to begin this afternoon the incardination of the bill on the establishment of the Committee of Inquiry into the banking system. We can safely hold the general debate and then proceed with the vote. It would be a good signal since this measure has been on the calendar for a while and always goes in line with everything else. A savings committee wrote to all senators a few days ago. They are desperate savers who see themselves robbed and mocked, and I believe that this House should at least give a sign of goodwill. We also support the proposal made by Senator De Petris and we believe that it is necessary to have Minister Padoan in the Chamber to report on the appointments of the participants and, above all, on the news circulating in relation to a hypothetical privatisation of an additional 15% of the Deposit and Loan Fund. I believe that this news cannot go unruly in the clamour of the events that have occupied us these days; it is a serious news - in our opinion - on which we would like to hear what Minister Padoan has to say. Information or question time: you find the formula, provided there is soon the inclusion, also considering that in this branch of Parliament we do not have the pleasure of having a question time since the beginning of February. Therefore, it would be good to resume this good practice with a question time or information from Minister Padoan. Mr President, I would also like to remind you that today, at the Conference of the Leaders, you told us that, on the basis of the prescribed number of senators, pursuant to Rule 50 (3) of the Rules of Procedure, you were asked to submit the resolution adopted in 10a to the House. Commission, at the conclusion of a deal awarded on the results of the main companies directly or indirectly involved by the State. Therefore, together with the aforementioned demand for question time, I also reiterate this need. I don't know if I missed any of your information about this, but if I missed it, I'm glad you put it on your schedule. Furthermore, I would also like to point out to the President that, since the practice of timing the motion debate on Tuesday morning from 11 a.m. to 1 p.m. has not appeared in the 5 Star Movement radar too. We are talking about a practice that has been going on since November and we have not yet seen our motion on schedule. If we wanted to, we could combine the motion tabled by Senator Cotti on nuclear disarmament with that of De Petris; After that, there would also be Mr Endrizzi's motion on banning gambling advertising and - why not? - this House could also be involved in the debate on a document which refers to the protection and enhancement of our material and intangible cultural assets, because in the political bay we forget that we have a rich artistic heritage and a lot of it is forgotten, so it is not protected or valued. Also with a view to giving a new impetus to our economy and to creating new jobs and new centres of aggregation that contrast the proliferation of gaming rooms and videolottery - which are certainly not places where the spirit can evolve but spaces of spiritual and mental degradation - we should start from a mapping of our places of material culture and our immaterial heritage. All this is possible with a synergistic work between the Ministry, the local authorities and the associations responsible for the protection. In Commission 7a we unanimously approved the report on the survey on the map of the abandonment of places of culture, from which a motion arose, also with a view to re-use, and perhaps a lower consumption, of the soil, if we think, for example, of the whole speech of school construction and of the new schools. So, Mr President, I would very much ask you to make provision for the inclusion in the calendar of a motion by the 5 Star Movement, because otherwise it really becomes a mockery as well as an inequality, a partiality against an opposition force which is important in the debate in this House. Finally, allow me without a shadow of controversy, but I believe that the commemoration that you rightly made today for the victims of all the mafias should have provided a space for each group, as is customary in this House, to give way to commemorate the victims of the mafia, each in its own way, and to be able to participate actively in this commemoration and not passively listening only to the speech of the President; I therefore stigmatize this way of proceeding.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-789.ana.u31	With regard to your last remark, it is certainly not a change in the timetable, but you could have put the problem at the Conference of the Leaders, which you did not do. [[Comments of Senator Montevecchi.]] Anyway, at the end of the session, anyone can take the floor. In recent times, the President's speech has been scheduled for commemoration without further intervention from the Groups, unless requested. Next year, Senator Montevecchi, there will certainly be a day entirely dedicated to this commemoration and those who will be able to commemorate. [[Comments by Senator Giarrusso.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-789.ana.u32	Greeting on behalf of the Assembly students, students, professors and companions of the Technical Institute of Industry "Enrico Mattei" of Urbino, in the province of Pesaro, who are following our works. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-789.ana.u33	We shall proceed with the votes. I put to the vote the proposal that the debate on new motions should be included in the agenda of the Assembly's proceedings. It's not approved. I put to the vote the proposal to include in the calendar of the proceedings of the Assembly an information of Minister Padoan on the Bank deposits and loans. It's not approved. MARTELLI (M5S). Let's ask for a rehearsal. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I order the doors closed. We proceed to counter-test by electronic procedure. It's not approved. I put to the vote the proposal to include further draft legislation in the agenda of the Assembly's proceedings. It's not approved. MARTELLI (M5S). Let's ask for a rehearsal. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I order the doors closed. We proceed to counter-test by electronic procedure. It's not approved. The timetable for proceedings adopted by a majority of the Conference of Leaders and communicated by me to the Assembly remains therefore final.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-789.ana.u34	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-789.ana.u35	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-789.ana.u36	PALMA (FI-PdL XVII). Mr President, I am sorry that my colleagues are moving away, because Senator Falanga's complaint is, in my opinion, absolutely serious. Senator Falanga has just informed us that, because of some of the opinions he expressed during an interview, he has received a complaint from Mr Ferranti. He went to the public prosecutor's office as a matter of duty and claimed that Article 68 of the Constitution existed there. I can safely testify that Senator Falanga has repeatedly dealt with the matter, both in the Bureau and in the Commission, but beyond that, which belongs to the substance of the matter, the obligation of the prosecutor was to invest the Junta of Parliamentary Elections and Immunities, in order to decide under Article 68 of the Constitution, with reference to an authorisation to proceed. The matter had been overruled and the step had to be taken. Senator Falanga informs us that he has been essentially remanded to trial, without the public prosecutor having had respect for the Senate and without asking the Senate for permission. I know perfectly well that a few days ago there was an episode that created diversity of views within political forces, but I also know that on a point like this there can be no form of diversity. The judicial authority has decided to prosecute a Member of Parliament for opinions expressed by them without first passing by the Senate and the Assembly of Parliamentary Elections and Immunities. Faced with all this and with certain interpretations of what has happened recently, I wonder whether Senator Falanga, like all senators, has the right to have the law respected. I wonder, for example, if the so much rumor that there has been in these days by the 5 Star Movement can find some confirmation today, with reference to the very serious episode, which sees Senator Falanga as victim. In any case, Mr President, Senator Falanga asked the Senate to address this issue immediately, as has happened several times in similar cases. I believe, Mr President, that there is no time to waste and that there is a need for you to invest the Junta immediately, so that the Junta first and the Senate can then speak. In all these events we have talked about the autonomy and independence of the judiciary, as it is right that it should be. However, to those who speak of the autonomy and independence of the judiciary I say that, with similar force, we must also speak of the autonomy of the Senate and of the necessity that, when it intervenes, the judiciary do so in full respect of the law and not, as in the case at hand, violating a constitutional prerogative that is not so much of Senator Falanga, as of the entire Senate organ. I hope to listen to the words of the 5 Star Movement, which only in this way can demonstrate that its legalitarianism, guaranteeing or justiceism is not instrumental in nature and that it is not only valid in one sense. [[Applause from the ALA-SCCLP Group and Senators Cuomo and Fucksia.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-789.ana.u37	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-789.ana.u38	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-789.ana.u39	BUEMI (Aut (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT)-PSI-MAIE). Mr President, it is with regret that I have to admit that the king is naked, in the sense that what happened to his colleague (I am not even quoting him by name, because I am talking about a fellow senator, that is, a member of this House) clearly confirms the relationship between certain private behaviors and political and judicial roles. Mr President, I too have spoken repeatedly in calling for the question of matters to be included on the agenda of the Chamber of Deputies. The Senate has in fact dismissed the provision on the ineligibility and incandidability of the magistrates two years and a few months ago. Since then, the measure has remained - I do not think by chance - in some drawer of the Justice Commission of the House of Deputies. And the complaint to my colleague about the demands he made in the Commission (which, of course, have been reported in public through interviews or statements) confirms the lack of attention to a problem that today is particularly painful. Not only that. The other branch of Parliament is discussing electoral law. But, ladies and gentlemen, will it not be thought that we can go to the future political elections without having seriously resolved the issue of the ineligibility and incandidability of the magistrates, even in the light of what has happened in recent weeks? [[Applause from Senators Albertini and Palma]] It is today the news, published in the newspapers, that the magistrate who had acted in a complaint against Mr Albertini and who had allowed himself to intervene with various kinds of solicitations against members of the Junta of the elections and the parliamentary immunity of the Senate has been asked for referral to the judgment of the competent prosecutor. Colleagues, I do not make judgments, but I raise two problems. The first concerns the autonomy provided for in our Constitution and in the parliamentary regulations, as well as the freedom to express judgments in and outside the Assembly with regard to their own behaviour and other subjects. As for the second problem, we must have the courage to cut the now unacceptable link between judicial circles and political circles. In this sense, I can only express my solidarity with Mr Falanga and I will put the matter before the Council of Parliamentary Elections and Immunities, which will have to meet in order to address another issue. I say to my colleagues in the Council and in the House as a whole: it is not acceptable to have the different measure used in relation to a number of colleagues. [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII and Senators Di Biagio and Fucksia.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-789.ana.u40	Before the other speeches on the subject, the Presidency took note of what Senator Falanga said and considered, as the law provides, that the matter was submitted to the Council of Parliamentary Elections and Immunities pursuant to Article 68 (1). Therefore, the matter can already be referred to the Junta and we will take this initiative, in the sense that the minutes of the sitting will be forwarded to the Junta which, in fact, will be able to fully assess whether or not there are the conditions for requesting the suspension of the proceedings for these reasons.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-789.ana.u41	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-789.ana.u42	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-789.ana.u43	Mr Barani (ALA-SCLP). Mr President, of course, as a group, we thank you. The point I wanted to raise on behalf of the Group was precisely that. There is, however, a second part of the same subject. The first part resolved it by sending that file to the Junta. But there is a second part. I ask you, on behalf of the Group, to report the conduct of this magistrate to the Supreme Council of the judiciary for disciplinary measures. We cannot allow magistrates to go against the law. They must also pay and, therefore, we believe that reporting and disciplinary action against this magistrate is necessary and necessary. Otherwise, we are in the most complete anarchy.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-789.ana.u44	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-789.ana.u45	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-789.ana.u46	Comrade (CoR). Mr President, I asked to speak before your decision was taken. I would like to point out that the latter is fully in line with what Mr Palma and, of course, my colleague Mr Falanga have proposed. As for what Senator Barani described as the second part of the same argument, I also think it is an appropriate measure. I remember the memory of the few colleagues who were already present at the time of the Spanish Presidency, who at that time, at the suggestion of the Presidency of the Junta, then presided over by Senator Pellegrino, this was invariably the case. Then, in this respect, without contradicting the opinion of Senator Barani, this second part of a related and connected intervention would have more strength to guarantee the autonomy of the Senate than another power of the State after, since this evening, our Junta has been able to work on the cards that, thanks to its decision, will be submitted to it. [[Applause from the CoR Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-789.ana.u47	This will be the assessment that will be made after the Junta is on the point.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-789.ana.u48	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-789.ana.u49	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-789.ana.u50	BOTTICS (M5S). Mr President, as I said earlier, it has been fifty-six days for the draft law establishing a Committee of Inquiry into the Forteto to lie undisturbed in the Justice Commission. It is on March 17, instead, the complaint of lawyer Giovanni Marchese, who reports of repeated cyber attacks on his site. (17.45) (BOTTIC FOLLOWS). This is the list of all attacks received from the site, which contains all documentation related to the Il Forteto community. The lawyer Giovanni Marquis is precisely the one who defended the victims of the Forteto. I also take the opportunity to make some names. Since the Commission is not set up, I will continue to talk about it in this House. The educational project carried out by Fiesoli in the elementary, middle and upper schools of the area has been supported by educators Giovanni Aversa, Elisa Baldini, Valentina Ceccherini, Simone Provenzano, Serena Timpano, Mauro Zingrini and teachers Luana Collacchioni, Wilma Chillari, Sonia Materassi, Anna Guidarelli, Sandra Vigiani and Antonio Venneri. Now, I'd like to know if these subjects who collaborated with Fiesoli still have anything to do with children. In fact, it seems absurd to me that we cooperate with a convicted person, despite the fact that history is known, having been the Fiesoli condemned for abuse in 1985. And I would also like to have information about the students who participated in the prophet's educational project and know what memories they have and what they could deepen, being children. I therefore ask President Grasso to ensure that the debate on the establishment of the Committee of Inquiry is brought to this House. I would remind all of you, who voted in favour of the statement of urgency, that you are now keeping your hands hidden. This is not correct for us, nor for the victims of the Forteto. [[Applause from the M5S and FI-PdL XVII Groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-789.ana.u51	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-789.ana.u52	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-789.ana.u53	MORRA (M5S). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, precisely because we have just discussed the Day of Memory and the commitment in memory of the innocent victims of the Mafia, I would like to urge Minister Graziano Delrio to do something he has long expected in Calabria. I believe that Delrio knows Calabria quite well, also because, if I remember correctly, on the occasion of the renewal of the city council of which he was mayor, he went down to Cutro to meet the community of Cutro - as it was written at the time - and maybe even get sympathy and consensus. Cutro is a municipality located on the Ionian side of the Region, while on the Tyrrhenian side we have Gioia Tauro where there is a port that alone has guaranteed more than 50 percent of the private GDP of the entire Region. The port lacks the presidency of the harbour Authority without which, in practice, the structure is acefala. It was rumored, a few months ago, that it was to become President a Genoese lawyer of trust of the family Aponte, family that controls the monopolist to which the Italian State, in a sudden way, gave the concession of the docks and docks for an infinite time. This assumption of appointment has skipped, although I believe that 400 families - there are 400 working units of MCT who have received or are receiving the letter of dismissal - deserve attention, also because all of us are outraged at the appearance on the walls of the bishopric of Locri: More work less cops. In Calabria, however, as in many other parts of the South, the work is guaranteed by politicians who get pulled for the jacket by desperate people who pity him for need. I remind everyone that in the municipality of Gioia Tauro has set up a commission for access to administrative acts just these hours. Consequently, if Minister Graziano Delrio were to remember to appoint the Authority of harbour system, it would not do badly. A request, however, I want to make to the Minister: since lately all appointments have been made geographically with the compass starting from Rignano on the Arno, we avoid that he is an expert in river ports, because Gioia Tauro overlooks the Tyrrhenian Sea. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-789.ana.u54	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-789.ana.u55	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-789.ana.u56	Mr Moscardelli (PD). With this intervention of continuous session, today, at the Senate, a relay with which, together with many senators and many senators, we remember every woman who is killed at the hands of a man to whom she is or has been linked by a loving relationship. And, as long as it is necessary, we will remind Parliament and our country of the urgent need to stem violence against women. There are five feminicides that we have to deal with today. Two similar episodes took place last week. On March 9, in Gambellara, in the province of Vicenza, Vanna Meggiolaro, fifty years old, was killed by her husband, who had denounced for ill-treatment and from whom she was separating. As he had repeatedly threatened to do, her husband, with her aboard, threw himself at a TIR killing her and was in turn killed. In the same way, a few days later, on March 12, in Pordenone, Jamir Temjenlemla, thirty-seven years old, was killed by her former companion, who also died in the clash he caused with a TIR, which this time also caused the death of the driver of the vehicle. Again, the episode takes place after a series of threats and ill-treatment for which the woman had denounced him. In the night between 17 and 18 March in Orte, in the province of Viterbo, Silvia Tabacchi, a 28-year-old woman, was shot dead by the former boyfriend, from whom she had recently separated, who then killed herself. On 10 March, Xiang Lei Li's husband, 36 years old, was arrested on charges of killing his wife in Genoa during a cruise. The woman's husband was about to return home, to Ireland, with the two children aged five and seven. Of particular heinousness was then the killing, on March 8, in Cirò Marina, in the province of Crotone, Antonella Lettieri, forty-two years old, which was ferociously murdered with 12 stabbed and as many hammered by a man who knew and who was part of his network of closer relationships. This increases to 45 women we remember in this relay, which began only on June 30, 2016. We propose with conviction our appeal; an appeal to the Government all and to the Undersecretary with delegation to equal opportunities: the directing booth monitors the application, the merits and the limits of law no. 119 of 2013 and give full and accurate implementation to the plan against violence. We must intervene in the environment of training and education of each person; the school and the family are the educational communities that accompany the growth of each. Only through a punctual and continuous formation on the subject can we think of defeating this barbarity. An appeal to the country, to all men and women: more than 120 women have already been killed in 2016 and we can no longer accept this massacre. [[Applause from the PD Group and Art. 1-MDP)]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-789.ana.u57	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-789.ana.u58	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-789.ana.u59	PADUA (PD). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, a short time ago an article was published in the newspaper "The Guardian" which denounces the inhumane condition that would force some Romanian women working in the camps in the province of Ragusa. Many of them - as reported in the article - would be reduced to a state of slavery, subjected to inhumane treatment and sexually exploited without any qualms: a situation certainly very different from what ignobly represented in recent days in a television broadcast of the RAI, fortunately closed and rejected. The situation - as emerges from the investigation - would be truly dramatic and - as I said - respect for the fundamental rights of the unwitting person. In this context, despite the goodwill of some associations and local authorities that denounce the state of affairs, a more integrated and resolute, more decisive and even decisive, intervention is indispensable to restore the legality and respect for human rights. However, it must be borne in mind that in the Iblea province there are many farms which, at the same time, operate in full compliance with the labour rules and - even more important in this case - respect the dignity of workers and workers. And the paradox is that to pay from the emergence of such news events are first and foremost their own, the honest ones. I have, in fact, received voices of resignations of orders, coming from Northern Europe, to fruit and vegetable companies that are completely unrelated to the facts charged, following the publication of the investigation. This situation, which has already been brought to the attention of this House with a response from the Government, in April 2015, to an act of my inspection union, must, in my opinion, be fully addressed and resolved. We must isolate those who enslave Romanian women, exploiting their position of weakness, and restore that order and legality that are violated whenever a woman is forced to suffer violence or threats of all sorts. Honest work must be encouraged and promoted, that of those who fight every day to combat this outrageous situation, supporting even more strongly those initiatives of a social nature, carried out by associations and local authorities, which aim to provide reception and support services to workers and foreign workers, to include them in the communities. It is essential, then, that the operators of the fruit and vegetable sector team up to exclude themselves and isolate dishonest and mafia. I already know that under the pressure of Confagricoltura and other local associations a pact is being drawn up for healthy companies and honest and hard-working entrepreneurs; a pact for legality that raises from any doubt the action of those who work in compliance with the rules. There is no doubt, however, that, without adequate institutional support more coordinated with the intervention of the State and the Region, it is all more complex, also because the exploited women fear their torturers and very often fail to report the crimes of which they are victims. They are all defeated by such facts: the honest farmers and operators, the territories and the bodies involved. Above all, however, we must think of those women who - according to what has been denounced - are forced to live in inhuman conditions. It is absolutely necessary to promote and implement more structured and coordinated prevention actions, in order to ensure that a next article in that newspaper on the Iblea province deals with the beauty of the landscape, history and culture, the reception of its communities, the love for the work of honest entrepreneurs and the fruits of our beautiful land, produced in compliance with the rights of workers and workers, Italians and foreigners. [[Applause from the PD Group and Senator Laniece.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-789.ana.u60	The motions, questions and questions received by the Presidency will be published in Annex B to today's report.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-789.ana.u61	The Senate will meet again in public session tomorrow, Wednesday 22 March, at 16.30, with the following agenda: (See agenda) The sitting was closed at 5.58 p.m.
