ParlaMint-IT_2017-09-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-878.ana.u1	The sitting was opened at 16.33 p.m. The Minutes shall be read. Mr SIBILIA, secretary, read the Minutes of the afternoon sitting of 14 September. PRESIDENT. - The debate is Since there were no comments, the Minutes were approved.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-09-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-878.ana.u2	The list of senators on leave and absent on assignment received from the Senate, as well as further communications to the Assembly, will be published in Annex B to today's Minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-09-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-878.ana.u3	I would warn you that qualified votes can be taken in the course of today's sitting by electronic means. Therefore, from this moment the period of 20 minutes from the notice provided for in Article 119, paragraph 1, of the Regulation (at 16.35).
ParlaMint-IT_2017-09-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-878.ana.u4	I inform you that the Junta of the elections and parliamentary immunity has communicated that, in accordance with Article 19 of Legislative Decree no. 533, as well as the opinion of the Junta for the Rules expressed at the session of 7 June 2006, the allocation of the seat made vacant in the Campania Region following the option resulting from a situation of incompatibility of Senator Vincenzo Cuomo for the office of mayor of the city of Portici, has found in today's session that the candidate who immediately follows the last of the elected in the progressive order of the list to which the aforementioned senator belonged is Lucia Esposito. I acknowledge the Council of Parliamentary Elections and Immunities of this communication and I declare Senator Lucia Esposito. [[Applause]] I warn you that from now on, the 20-day deadline for the submission of any complaints will begin with the new announcement. I welcome Senator Lucia Esposito, who can now take her place. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-09-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-878.ana.u5	The next item is the continuation of the debate on draft law Nos. 2287- bis, 459 and 1116. I would remind you that at the afternoon sitting on 14 September the rapporteur incorporated the written report and the general debate took place. I call the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-09-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-878.ana.u6	Mr President, I will use very little time to respond to some of the interesting requests that have come from my fellow Members, also following a very shared path of this measure. I shall proceed on the basis of the order of the speeches made in this House at last Thursday's sitting. Senator Giovanardi spoke on the issue of circus activities and explained reasons for opposition to the text proposed by the Government, which provides for the gradual elimination of activities that make use of animals within the circus. As the Members of the Commission know, we have tried to find a solution that could have been sufficiently balanced and we believe that the one identified is: we have included in the measure many measures that provide incentives and administrative simplification measures, aimed - for example - at overcoming the historical problem of the equipped areas. Therefore, the intervention concerning the use of animals should not be interpreted as a particularly negative measure towards the circus world, which is historically consolidated and is part of our tradition and culture and entertainment culture. And this principle of delegation is part of a legislative framework that has long encouraged activities without the use of animals proper to a contemporary circus. There is, therefore, a process of conversion that has already begun and the measure is part of this process. With regard specifically to this issue, for the activation of the principle of delegation, account must be taken - and here is the Minister, who will certainly take this into account - of the rules for the protection of animals of international and European origin, which lay down limits and conditions for the possession and use of endangered animals, wild and dangerous. And the welfare of the animals must be assured, as well as the graduality of the measure - I highlight this very significant term, i.e. "gradual" elimination - which will be linked to the particular cautions to be followed to ensure the welfare of the animals, supporting the burdens, not indifferent, for the proper location of the animals, which in many cases are specimens of endangered species and born in captivity. This must be taken into account, i.e. the maximum balance and respect for the overall process of gradually overcoming such a mode of use of animals within the circus. The process will therefore be gradual and responsible and will require, first of all, the commitment and collaboration, in particular, of circus operators, who care about the welfare of the animals they work with. For this reason, although I understand your reasons, Senator Giovanardi, I invite you to reconsider, on the basis of these considerations, a position which, by putting itself in a logic of absolute opposition, certainly does not help the process, which must be very gradual and must give space and time to the world of the circus and allow the animals, which are our first concern, to be able to be treated in the appropriate manner. Mr Giro recalled in his speech the many initiatives taken by previous governments, trying to minimize what was done at this stage by Minister Franceschini and by us, who in Parliament have worked very hard on this measure. Certainly there is the reform of the discipline on cinema activities made in 2004. But I would like to remind you, Senator Giro, that you had not considered the theme of the show at all; indeed, despite the delegation there was, it had not been exercised by Minister Urbani: already it was expected the reorganization and codification of the sectors of theater, music, dance and other forms of live entertainment, but nothing had come. That is why I would like to stress the importance of approving this draft law, which moves the situation in a sense, and I think that is clear to everyone. The whole entertainment sector is governed by converted decree-laws, as we have already mentioned. The resources, in a transient perennial, are assigned by decrees of a non-regulatory nature, which base their regulatory bases on laws dating back to time. Therefore, if there is a minimum of satisfaction, which has obviously also been reflected in my words, I believe that we have reason, having unlocked a situation dating back to Law No 800 of 1967. It is important to give signals - I repeat - to contemporary and popular music, to dance that has no citizenship in norms. The discomfort of internationally renowned Italian artists such as Roberto Bolle - mentioned by my colleague Mr Montevecchi - can be found in this House. We have finally talked about dance; we have given citizenship to dance in this House too. As for the lyric-symphonic foundations touched on in many interventions and in particular in that of Senator Giro, who has been complex and full of stress, I point out that the text does not actually modify the picture, but continues with energy on a road marked for years, and last with the emergency intervention in the decree on local authorities, converted into law no. 160 of 2016. The resources allocated in quota Single Fund for the show (FUS) are today just over 180 million euros, to which are added 20 million extraordinary assigned by the budget law for 2017 and also by the thousandprorogues of 2017. So these are important speeches and those who have said, even in this debate, that there is no discontinuity and there are no significant interventions in culture, as regards both cultural heritage and cultural activities, should look at the figures a bit, because the situation is quite different. I would also like to say a few words about the concern expressed in the speeches by Senators Giro and Bocchino, about the centralization of powers in charge of the Minister for Cultural Heritage and Activities and Tourism. In this connection, ladies and gentlemen, I suggest that you read the bill differently. The prediction of an organism - referred to the superior council of the show - with representatives of different souls, categories and all the various arts with the task of evaluating the effects of the measures planned on the development of the sector, should be a guarantee of constructive dialogue between the Minister and the operators, also ensuring a connection with the Regions through the representative of the unified Conference. I therefore invite you to read it in the dimension it has and I would give the authentic interpretation of the superior council of the show. It comes out of a bureaucratic logic to point to a logic of substance, where, in the presence of marked powers of political direction, but also of places of dialogue and verification of results, appropriate choices can be made for the development of the system. There will be an involvement of all the actors of the show and this seems to me a very important and also very significant element of the provision. I listened carefully to Senator Tosato, whom I would like to reassure. I agree on the need not to make lyrical-symphonic foundations - I use the expression of the senator himself - of the whole grass a bundle. In the wake of the experience of recent years, the rules of delegification and the new criteria of allocation of the FUS for foundations follow a logic aimed at distinguishing between virtuous realities and those problematic ones in order to thus have the certainty of resources allocated annually. I would therefore like to stress the importance - and I would also ask my colleagues to take this into account - of the fact that we need rigour to distinguish between the virtuous realities and the most problematic ones, with the consequences that this entails. However, this is not an invitation to destroy, but a way to stimulate in a positive way. I also agree with Senator Tosato that deficit situations are also due to the incidence of cuts. We all know that, over the years, there has been a great deal of change in culture and it is therefore clear that the reversal of the trend that we have now grafted on is not enough. There are still deficit situations, and for this reason I believe that we need to pay close attention so that we can start from a less tragic situation than we have at present. Senator Compagna raised the question of the powers of the Minister for Cultural Heritage and Activities and Tourism, who is here today. Unlike my colleague, I believe that there has been a positive cultural development in this respect. Senator Compagna said, with his exhibition manner always interesting to listen to, that all in all the Ministry must deal only with cultural assets and not with cultural activities. Instead, I believe that there has been a positive cultural evolution in this sense, which well sees within a single Ministry the skills related to the world of cultural heritage and, therefore, the protection, conservation and enhancement of the historical heritage of the Nation, and the overall development of cultural activities, which combine well with the places of art and which, through the shows, can have a greater valorization. It is one of the battle horses of Minister Franceschini, which I fully share; the places of art become even more enjoyable with cultural activities. In this regard, I find it useful that the Ministry should also deal with tourism. I'm in a different way, Senator Comrade. Cultural tourism is - and increasingly must be - a driving force in the sector. I therefore see a harmony of functions in the current structure of the Ministry, which responds well to the constitutional dictation of Article 9 of the Constitution which - not by chance - we have recalled in the principles of the provision to our examination. We have not put at random the reference to Article 9, which I would like to remind you here: The Republic promotes the development of culture and scientific and technical research. It protects the landscape and the historical and artistic heritage of the Nation. It is a single article and, therefore, the reference to the current organization of the Ministry seems absolutely useful. Senator Panizza has spoken for a long time, sharing the approach of the measure and bringing back to the House so many issues addressed to the Commission, even at the hearing, concerning the need to promote, at least with the same deductions, a greater sensitivity towards these activities; a request that should be addressed not to Minister Franceschini, but to that of the economy and finances. Such deductions should apply to all families who want their children to take cultural activities and courses, ranging from music to dance and also to the third sector. We would therefore like the same deductions to apply to the world of sport in the context of their respective activities. I believe that this story must be well verified and calculated, in order to finally give families this support, even with the access of associations to the measure of 2 per thousand. I do not despair that in the next law of stability there may be particular attention to this issue, which would have such an impact on the lives of families and operators in the sector. Mr President, I shall conclude. Senator Conte pointed out an important aspect. Sharing the approach of the norm, he highlighted the need for the actors of the show to operate on the net, guaranteeing lower costs and aiming at a higher quality of production, and turned his attention to the topic of working relationships in the entertainment world and the need to give dignity to the worker in pay and protection. I fully agree with this point made by my colleague. Among other things, she has also addressed these aspects to Senator Blundo, who has collaborated very much with us, showing sensitivity to aspects related to work relationships in the world of entertainment, namely the need to give dignity to pay in the world of work, with an important intervention. The whole Commission has been very sensitive to this issue and the planned delegation will be very important. I share the concern and also the solicitation of Senator Blundo who, moreover, had a very constructive approach during the examination in the Commission to ensure that the text also included the discipline of teaching in dance schools - still dance - to guarantee families and children. Operators will have to have certain characteristics and the Government is delegated to deal with this. Senator Bocchino spoke about an important point that is often discussed in the debate both in the Commission and in this House. He spoke of critical issues with regard to the relationship between the public and private in support of the sector, which was an important part of his intervention. I think that, given the concern about replacing public intervention with private intervention, leaving entertainment activities to the free market, the bill introduces guarantees, starting with the reference, among the general principles, to provisions of the Constitution. We would never have called back the Constitution if we did not believe that there must necessarily be absolute support and responsibility from the State of the Italian Republic and all its articulations - I refer to Regions and Municipalities - of activities related to culture. The draft law under consideration opens up a collaborative logic between the different levels of government and a synergy between public and private intervention, which we certainly consider useful. I believe that there must be a private intervention in the field of culture, but it must not be a substitute, but an additional one. Our battle, which I believe is common to all in this House and to the various political parties, must be - and will be - directed towards increasing public resources in this area. But alongside that, private resources are also well-known, and rightly so, as in many other parts of the world, they already represent a very important part of the funding. In this sense, we have proposed not only the extension of the Art bonus, but also the enhancement of associationism and the connection with the third sector (i.e. with all those subjects that can increase this world and also the funding and resources destined to the world of culture). Senator Bocchino has always spoken with concern about trespassing in regional competences. There are always open issues here and even our recent history tells us that. The draft law under consideration - we have taken note of this - actually transposes the guidelines of the Constitutional Court, including the latest ones relating to the so-called Bray law and the delegations of the so-called Madia reform. So, on that I think we've responded to your concerns. The whole approach seeks to create synergy between different levels of government. There is no doubt - it has also been said with reference to lyrical-symphonic foundations - that the most recent problems are also due to the loss of resources on the territory, but precisely for this reason the state intervention must be closely interconnected to that territorial one for a unitary direction, in order to favor the territorial rebalancing and - also this is very important and was one of the elements that in many interventions, also in the Commission, Senator Petraglia has remembered - to verify that every public resource realizes a cultural and territorial impact in the best of ways. This reform, therefore, tends to create the premises for an approach of synergy and loyal collaboration, the only one - in my opinion - that can create a true discontinuity with the past. In this respect too, I believe that the concerns that have emerged are legitimate, but I believe that we have responded in the most credible and serious way possible. Senator Montevecchi was the protagonist of the Commission's work with her proposals, with the many amendments we discussed. The subject discussed in this House is very much linked to the questions of lyrical-symphonic foundations, a subject that is certainly burning even if - as I said - it is not central to this measure; it is said much more. Recognizing the "been other" without always specifying everything only on lyrical-symphonic foundations is perhaps not even wrong, but I want to answer on the issues of foundations. The reading of the bill requires a reflection on how the problems did not really change much before and after the transformation into foundations with a legal nature of private law, which was one of the elements of the Veltroni reform that the senator talked about. And this helps us to focus our strategies on a totally different approach: questioning the model again could have a high cost and not be decisive. We cannot now go back and think of completely re-publishing the foundations after all the years in which they have made their path that, even with a thousand problems, happened in an innovative and culturally advanced logic. It is a situation before 1997, we cannot go back; it has certainly not solved the problem, just as it did not solve the intervention of Minister Bondi called - if I am not mistaken - by Senator Giro. However, the draft law, based on experience, strengthens the ongoing reorganisation action and introduces adjustments also with regard to responsibilities. In this respect, there has been a contribution from my colleague, Mr Montevecchi: we have accepted certain amendments - as I believe the honourable Member has also said - concerning greater responsibility for management bodies and supervisors. It is really important, in fact, that the sense of responsibility is at the basis of the management of the foundations, having sometimes left a bit to be desired. Therefore, the wisest choice in relation to the foundations, which have emerged in all the speeches, ladies and gentlemen, Mr President, will be to move forward along this path and wish for a further effort in financial terms for the return of debt exposures. As we know, it is one of the issues that the Minister is well aware of and we will see how to resolve it. No persecutory intent is, therefore, to the foundations; no will to interfere in their planning by cutting resources. On the other hand, there is a strong desire to call the management bodies to responsibility and rigour in investment, which is what has sometimes been lacking. All of this will certainly not lead to a decay and is set as a necessary condition for a revival. The crisis of the dancing bodies, on which several senators have intervened, and of which we have spoken so much in the Commission and which we care about very much, undoubtedly stems from an overall situation that is not sustainable, which has unfortunately led to radical choices by some foundation managements. I trust that a new approach will help to reconsider within the various foundations these choices, perhaps at the time obliged, and we remember the significant subjects who wanted it. With regard to the government's commitment to culture, it seems to me incontrovertible that there have been investments that have not been made in this sector for years - we have reinstated the budgets of foundations several times in this five-year period - that on staff not so much foundations as in general of the Ministry, of course with some effort, but with a perspective that can only make us think of overall development. Senator Marin, very critically said that all in all, the measure does not make big changes. I realize that everything is in the political dialectic, but I believe that with a little effort we can find interesting initiatives also within a measure such as this. And its approval is important not because I think, of course, that the adoption of an organic framework of rules can change the world, but because a good legislative response, with effective tools, can help to initiate change. Senator Marin speaks of an excess, even of an abuse of the legislative delegation, an issue that emerged in the debate. But in this case I think I can reject this remark, because we have basically introduced six articles of direct standardisation into the text. And we must remember that we were starting from article 34 of the bill n. 2287- bis on cinema and entertainment and from that one article, keeping the link, we derived six articles of direct standardization, introducing the wide and analytical series of principles and guiding criteria: I would say that this was the best we could do in a related. I would therefore like to thank the Minister for allowing Parliament to do a great deal of work, accepting all our comments and proposals. On this I believe there has been some harmony that has also produced good results. Of course, I would like to thank all the women who have spoken: Senators Ferrara, Fasiolo, Idem, Pezzopane and Granaiola, who, dealing with different aspects, have made the debate very rich, which took place in a way that I personally found very satisfying. I believe, however, that the demands that have come are also interesting, because we do not talk very often about culture in this House and, therefore, perhaps it is not bad if sometimes, when we talk about it, we also try to pay more attention. The Members, each in a different way, have offered in their speeches various ideas for the further development of the sector, taking good account of the objective that was sought here, namely to prepare, Mr President, an organic measure on the spectacle, which would lead to prospects for the development of the sector, considering - as Senator Idem says - that culture is not a luxury commodity, but a raw material of which we cannot help but shape our future. Using Senator Ferrara's words, we can say that, after all, what we have done and are doing is giving an answer to those who believe that the right to culture and cultural heritage is an intangible right of all citizens. I therefore thank Senator Ferrara because I believe that this statement contains the meaning of the measure. I would also like to thank all my colleagues for helping me to grasp many aspects of the bill, making a big contribution. We have worked further on the amendments in order to be able to express opinions on the basis of the debate that has taken place here, and now we are ready to examine them in such a way that we can give the measure its light as soon as possible. [[Applause from the PD Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-09-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-878.ana.u7	I call the representative of the Government.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-09-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-878.ana.u8	Mr President, I would like to thank the rapporteur for allowing me to be very brief, not least because this measure is indeed a parliamentary one. You know that it started as a link to the film bill, then it was removed from that provision and started an iter that has deeply enriched and changed it, making it a measure that - as I said - is parliamentary in nature. For this I thank the rapporteur for the work she has done, but together with her I thank the whole Commission. We are in the last months of this parliamentary term and I am convinced that many important things have been done in the field of culture. I want to say this, out of misunderstanding, that I do not come here to claim merits, because all the things that have been done are the result of very intense parliamentary work. Even with regard to the administrative acts with which the reform of museums has been carried out, I have to say that these were measures derived from rules that Parliament wanted to adopt, often with a larger majority than the parliamentary one. I am one of those who think that when a majority on a measure is able to broaden its consensus, it is not an embarrassment, but a reason for the success of Parliament as a whole. So it happened on the decree-law that introduced the Art bonus, with which finally the relationship between public and private is further integrated, and it happened also on the bill on cinema, another measure approved with a greater majority than the parliamentary one, and I hope that this can happen today. I have listened well to the concerns of Senator Giro and I would like to reassure him: I do not dream of dreaming and I will never dream of making a comparison (even because it must never be done in first person) between what this Government has done, or the two Governments in which I have made the Minister of Cultural Heritage and Activities, and the previous ones. Each measure is the result of the work of others, including the fact that some incentives, such as the Art bonus, were inserted into our system after numerous battles were waged by previous governments of different colors. The debate was interesting - although I had to read it from the shorthand report - and I apologise for not being here. I would like to address Senator Montevecchi, who was concerned: he was not rude to the Assembly, but I was in Corfu in a bilateral Italy-Greece with the President of the Council Gentiloni Silveri and many other ministers exactly that morning and a part of that bilateral meeting was dedicated to the themes of culture. I have listened to the concerns that have been expressed - and I stand by those that have been taken up in part by the rapporteur - about a subject that has raised a great deal of debate, from Senator Giovanardi to others, who have been concerned about the future of circuses. It is a very clear theme and we must be aware of working to protect the future of the great Italian tradition of circuses, reconciling it with a sensibility that has gradually changed. It is not a problem of extreme conditions; it is a sensitivity that has changed profoundly over the years and even since the years, Senator Giovanardi, in which as children we went to circuses. Sensitivity in public opinion has changed in relation to the issue of animal protection. I think, then, that instead of, as often happens, putting oneself on opposing positions and seeing who wins (I don't speak of the majority and minority, here we speak of the theme of circuses), when the norm speaks of "gradual elimination" it means that sooner and later the animals will have to be no more. On the other hand, when we talk about a "gradual" reduction, it means that they must remain, albeit to a different extent. [[Applause from Senator Cirinna]] I think - and I know the rapporteur is working on this - that we can find a position that allows us to move progressively towards a different situation. We are working to understand whether, through a reformulation of the amendment, we can find a useful and sensible solution that allows us to respect the new sensitivity to the issue of animal protection which, as you know, is very cross-cutting. It does not belong to one of the three sides; it is very transversal, as is the duty to save the great tradition of our circuses. For the lyrical-symphonic foundations - I refer to the rapporteur's words and remember that Senator Tosato dealt with the subject - the rule extends to 31 December 2019 the deadline within which the foundations must adapt to the new parameters provided for in the decree on delegification on which we are working. I think that in this way we will be able to intervene in practice. Parliament, moreover, has also recently increased resources to lyrical-symphonic foundations, but provided that virtuous mechanisms are introduced: it does not reward those who spend much, but those who manage well. The first steps from this point of view have been taken and will be taken according to the law itself. Senator Blundo, the issue of worker protection is present and is one of the points of the law. Provision is made for a delegation on the reordering of labour provisions. The general issue of delegation has also given rise to concerns, but I recall that the two are together: delegating with administrative, ministerial or legislative measures allows us not to tighten up the rules in an ever-changing situation. It is not a takeover by the Ministry or the Minister, especially since there are general elections at the beginning of next year and, therefore, we will see who will win them, which Government will form and who will be Minister. Therefore, it will certainly not be this Government or this Minister who will use the delegation that Parliament grants in the matter of entertainment (due to the analyticity of the things that must be done, I believe it is essential to choose this instrument). It seems to me that there are many good and innovative things in the measure such as virtuous mechanisms and the possibility of distinguishing lyrical-symphonic foundations from the rest of the Single Fund for Show (FUS), the reorganization of the dance sector, support for internationalization, new sectors such as popular and contemporary music and - at parliamentary request - carnivals and historical re-enactments, all sectors that were not in the previous FUS. As has been done by Parliament in the film law, 3% are devoted to training and, therefore, to schools. I have already said about working relationships and then there is the issue of accessibility to people with disabilities and the significant increase in resources. That is not what we would like, but for three years we have closed the season of cuts to the Single Fund for the show. Today the resources at the cinema - which was part of the FUS while it is no longer part of it today - and the live show increase to a very large extent. Then four million were confirmed for the earthquake, which is another important signal. I would also like to answer the question that was asked in all parliamentary debates: did the Art Bonus work? I am pleased to inform the House that we have now reached around EUR 180 million in donations and over 3,500 donors between companies and private individuals. The Art bonus was introduced into our system as a temporary measure for 65 percent for the first two years and 50 percent for the third year and only for asset interventions. Via via was made permanent, by parliamentary will, and extended to museums, lyrical-symphonic foundations and traditional theatres. In this measure a sacrosanct measure is adopted because it did not make sense that it used the Art bonus and, therefore, the contribution of private individuals with a tax relief who dealt with symphonic music or lyrics and instead not those who do theatre or prose. With the measure it is extended to orchestral concert institutions, national theatres, theatres of significant cultural interest, festivals and companies and theatre production centers of dance, non-profit distribution circuits that carry out activities in the entertainment sector. It is a strong way of helping because the aid is in direct form through the FUS and indirectly by encouraging contributions from individuals, businesses or citizens. It seems to me that the measure is truly innovative. Thank you and I really hope that this measure will also have a wider vote than that of its majority. [[Applause from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-09-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-878.ana.u9	I would like to inform you that the Presidency - and I am in distribution - has received the opinions of the 1st and 5th standing Commission on the draft law under consideration and the amendments, which will be published in an annex to today's report. We shall now proceed to the examination of Article 1, on which amendments and agendas have been tabled, which I would ask the authors to explain.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-09-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-878.ana.u10	Mr President, I should like to begin by expressing my regret that the entire Group of the League, which has tabled significant amendments on this subject, does not participate in the work. It seems to me to be a vulnus in the democratic dialectic, especially because it will not enter into the substance of important issues that we are discussing. I would also like to point out to the rapporteur and the Minister that there is a problem. Therefore, in a dialectical and very quiet form, I would like to understand why they are eliminated from circuses, even gradually, all animals (including dogs and horses), but I do not think that they are eliminated from the cinema (there will therefore be a film production set in the past in which animals will be used normally), from the theatre (e.g. the Arena of Verona, when the Aida is staged), from the horse shows or from the Olympics, in the case of dressage, or from the Palio of Siena. I have even come to say, as a friend of the animals, that there are millions of Italians who keep in the animal apartments even of large size and therefore, if we reason in this way, we should force them to keep the animals free or in an open space, because you cannot keep an animal forced in an apartment. On the other hand, neither in the cinema, nor in the theatre, nor in the Palio di Siena, nor in the horse race, nor in the Olympic Games, is the use of animals prohibited. Even at the constitutional level it seems a little strange to say that animals can be used, but they must not be put to work. Colleagues, I remember that when there is an earthquake or an avalanche, it is the animals specially trained, even with great rigour, to save human lives. If I had to take this reasoning to the extreme, I could not train animals for those purposes and this seems to me an animalist attitude "Taleban," which has no justification and which is not even of friendship with animals. Mr Franceschini, I address you as Minister of Cultural Heritage and Activities: the circus is history, tradition and culture. I read to you - and perhaps this is the last time I can do so - the prayer of the circusmen, of the great Totò. It is a prayer that, if the rule under consideration is adopted today, will no longer make sense. In fact, it says the prayer of the circusmen: We thank you, our good Protector, for giving us the strength to make the most beautiful show in the world today. You who protect men, animals and slums, you who make lions as docile as men and men brave as lions, you who lend to the acrobats every night the wings of angels, make sure that bread and applause never fails on our table. Prayer even says: "We ask you for protection, but if we are not worthy of it, if any misfortune should happen to us, make it happen after the show and, in any case, remember to save the beasts and children first." I wonder if it is not collaboration, if it is not friendship, if it is not common work the prayer of a clown who says: In the event of misfortune, save the animals first, rather than save us. The prayer ends by saying: You who allow dwarves and giants to be equally happy, you who are the real one, the only network of our dangerous exercises, make sure that at no time in our lives we miss a tent, a track and a reflector. Dear Minister, the National circuses - it is 10,000 workers - have come to explain that they will be missing, exactly, a tent, a track and a reflector, because the circus without animals dies. All experiments of circuses without animals have failed, because children, like my grandchildren, who go to see the circus, wait to see the animals, that is, what they saw only on television, not being able to go to the safari in Africa. The circus is the show - I have verified and it is so - that it has lost less spectators in the last twenty years, compared to the cinema and the theater. It's a live show, pulling. The Minister says he wants to find a solution. Do we want to eliminate wild animals? It may be an idea that, progressively, they are not replaced; but does this also apply to animals such as horses? As I said earlier, going to the circus with the grandchildren, I saw a guy making Zorro's pantomime while he's riding against the guards. With this rule, inside the circus, no one can show up on an animal's horse anymore, because it will be forbidden. If things have to be done rationally, someone has to explain to me why this measure is so punitive and so full of evil towards a sector that has given Italy so much and that it is so famous in the world. The Italian circus is one of the famous things in the world. We want to close it in Italy and we want to force it to go abroad? Do we want to send him to New York, where a few weeks ago, during Bocelli's concert, a tiger came up on stage? Yet the United States is a very civilized country. Then I ask for an effort of imagination. Perhaps the amendments on the circus can move them to the end and we can reason on the reduction, which is not elimination. In fact, there is talk of progressive elimination, but it is like entering the chamber of death, where you enter knowing you have to die: slowly, you will be told how long you will have to die, but you must die. Well, I don't want this tradition, this culture, these women, these men and these artists to die. I want them to continue their activity, of course with a great deal of attention to animal welfare: controls, controls, controls and even more controls! The workers of men in the circus, in fact, must be treated like the workers of the circus. Do we want to think about wild animals? Let's do it. But, Minister, the death sentence, no. The elimination, no. I repeat, in fact, that: either you are consequent and you eliminate the use of animals from all forms of spectacle and presence in our society; or, you cannot make the exception only for circus workers. She then said, quite rightly, that there is a sensitivity. But there is also the sensitivity of millions of people who go to the circus. And I saw these people, moms and children, insulted by extremists because they went to the circus, but they didn't let themselves be intimidated. Those who insulted them, however, had dogs on a leash! I asked them: "But, excuse me, you have dogs on a leash and you have them at home, why are you angry with moms and children who go to see horses and dogs at the circus?" Because we're the ones who don't let them work. But we let the children, "the puppies of man" study, go to school; that a dog is trained to save men from earthquakes and avalanches, alive God, it seems to me an absolutely just and necessary thing. Minister and rapporteur, we still have some time: let us see if we can save, with mutual satisfaction, the circus, to safeguard animal welfare and not to delete forms of spectacle, such as those referred to by the great Totò, who, when they are erased from the history of a people, leave everyone poorer: we and even animals. [[Applause from the FL groups (Id-PL, PLI) and GAL (DI, GS, MPL, RI) and Senator Rossi Luciano.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-09-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-878.ana.u11	Before continuing with the explanation of the amendments tabled on Article 1, I would like to say that all the amendments tabled by the Group of the North Lega have been signed by Senators Malan and Carraro.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-09-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-878.ana.u12	Mr President, I would like to explain Amendment 1,225, which seeks to delete from the text point (n) to paragraph 4 of Article 1. It is one of the principles that should inspire public intervention in support of entertainment activities (as well as their promotion), the principle that there are entertainment activities carried out in places of particular cultural interest, so as to allow for mutual exploitation between the place and the activity. We believe that the inclusion of this principle in the text of the code is superfluous as well as dangerous. It is superfluous because, in reality, these activities are already allowed at the discretion of the superintendent, therefore, we do not understand the usefulness of entering a redundant passage that, on the contrary, could have dangerous implications, since we could then find ourselves faced with activities and initiatives that have nothing to valorize but that, indeed, generate problems. So, en passant, I quote a recent fact that has concerned this summer of shows in Rome, that is the famous musical "Divo Nerone" for which now there is not even the money to disassemble the stage and the rest of the apparatus. That is why we believe that this part of the code should be deleted because it is useless and, indeed, potentially dangerous.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-09-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-878.ana.u13	Mr President, I have heard the words of the rapporteur, Mrs Di Giorgi, and I thank her for her sensitivity, partly because she has fully supported the reasons for the amendment, and therefore I hope that the Government, which has forced us to withdraw the amendments, will be able to accept the commitment, contained on the agenda of the G1.101, to restore the facilities of 2 per thousand, but above all to finally extend also to cultural associations the possibility to deduct part of the costs of training courses and a whole series of exemptions and tax breaks, of which, for example, sports associations can enjoy.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-09-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-878.ana.u14	Mr President, I have tabled the agenda for G1,105 precisely to promote the educational and educational value of cultural heritage for the new generations. It is an agenda that is an integral part of the bill, so I hope that the rapporteur and the government will accept it.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-09-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-878.ana.u15	The remaining amendments and agendas are set out. I call on the rapporteur and the representative of the Government to comment on the amendments and agendas under discussion.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-09-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-878.ana.u16	Mr President, I am against Amendments Nos 1,200, 1,205, 1,206, 1,207, 1,204, 1,208, 1,209, 1,210, 1,211, 1,213, 1,214, 1,215, 1,2216, 1,217, 1,218, 1,219, 1,2220, 1,300, 1,221, 1,224, 1,301 and 1,225. I am in favour of Amendments 1,222 and 1,223. I would also like to express a favourable opinion on the agendas for G1.100, G1.101, G1.102, G1.103, G1.104 and G1.105.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-09-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-878.ana.u17	Mr President, I agree with the rapporteur and welcome all the agendas presented in Rule 1.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-09-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-878.ana.u18	We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment No 1,200. BIGNAMI (Misto-MovX). We call for simultaneous ballots to be carried out by electronic means. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1,200, tabled by Senator Giovanardi. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Amendments 1,201, 1,202 and 1,203 are inadmissible. I refer to the nominal vote by simultaneous ballot of the first part of Amendment 1,205, tabled by Senator Arrigoni and other senators, up to the words "circus activities." (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). The remaining part and amendments 1,206 to 1,220 are therefore excluded. I call on Senator De Petris and other senators to vote by a simultaneous vote on amendment 1,300. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 1,221.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-09-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-878.ana.u19	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-09-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-878.ana.u20	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-09-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-878.ana.u21	Mr Giovanardi (PL-Id) Mr President, as I said, there is a problem with the fact that the authors of the amendments tabled by the League... PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Maybe I wasn't clear: they were signed by Senators Malan and Carraro. Mr Giovanardi (PL-Id) To say that there is clearly no reason why they were presented in their presentation. They are, in fact, a variation on the subject of other amendments which we will examine in Article 2, all of which are projected towards the same result, on which a parliamentary dialectic has been opened which, like all the important parliamentary dialectics, is concerned with what we want to do with this measure. I would like to address the Minister, who, with regard to elimination, also proposed amending terms, such as "overtaking"; but "overtaking" - I went to see on the vocabulary - means "final provision." Eliminating or overcoming something has exactly the same result. We do not dispute the fact that some animal species, especially those on which the controversy concerns (the elephants and wild animals), are eliminated. Our concern is that the least of the scenic presence given, for example, by dogs and horses, which are used everywhere and whose elimination would penalize only and exclusively the circus. Since it is a delegation to the Government, I do not see why the Government cannot speak of elimination or even of overcoming the use of certain animal species. The government, in the law of delegation, will write that wild animals, elephants and a whole series of animals that are not normally used, are no longer used, but will not give this total condemnation to the circus, unmotivated and incomprehensible. I would like some of my colleagues to explain to me why, by continuing the horses to be, rightly used everywhere, from the Olympics down, and the dogs anyway, collaborating with the man, in an equestrian circus (because the tradition is that of the equestrian circus)...
ParlaMint-IT_2017-09-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-878.ana.u22	Senator Giovanardi, you are making a speech on Amendment 1,300, which we have already voted on. The amendment we are now voting on is 1.221, which I do not think speaks of animals. I would therefore ask you to restrict your speech. I kept it going, but I'm done.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-09-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-878.ana.u23	Mr President, I wanted to make this speech before voting on other amendments because it also takes time to consider the reasons why such a proposal, which seems absolutely reasonable to me by referring to the equestrian circus, cannot and should not be accepted.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-09-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-878.ana.u24	I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1,221, tabled by Senator Centinario and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1,222 tabled by Senator Ferrara Elena. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1,223 tabled by Senator Ferrara Elena and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1,224, tabled by Senator Centinario and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1,301, tabled by Senator Petraglia and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1,225, tabled by Senator Montevecchi and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). As the government has accepted the agendas G1.100, G1.101, G1.102, G1.103, G1.104 and G1.105 will not be put to the vote. I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by a simultaneous vote on Article 1 in the amended text. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the examination of Article 2, on which amendments and agendas have been tabled, which I would ask the authors to explain.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-09-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-878.ana.u25	Mr President, on one side I apologise, but on another side I am pleased that Parliament's dialectic may allow progress in the search for a common consensus on this issue. However, I would also like the things that are being said both by my colleagues and by the government to be documented in this House. Today the bill uses the expression "gradual elimination" which means that every animal species in the future cannot be used in equestrian circuses. I first raised the non-secondary problem that the equestrian circus was born as a circus with horses. Just look at the great French impressionist painting to know what the circus is with horses, but, on the basis of this norm, it should disappear. If, on the other hand, the gradual overcoming - but this must be said by the Government, just as the rapporteur can do - means that we will also arrive at the unpredicted conclusion that the rider can go around the track or his show on horseback, then we can also enjoy the gradual overcoming. However, it must be said, because if "overtaking" is equal to "elimination" then we do not cable a spider from the hole. If overdoing is an indication to get rid of animals that the popular sensibility today no longer considers usable in circuses, but keeping those animals that work and collaborate everywhere with man, this could be a compromise acceptable to us, but also for the workers of circuses. Gentlemen, I love animals, but I would like this House to remind you that, in addition to animal rights, there are also workers' rights: 8,000 workers who risk losing their jobs are a very important social problem, because the knowledge of these workers and their artistic capacity is also lost. If the government expresses itself in this way, we could also arrive - but the rapporteur must submit a sub-amendment - to withdraw our amendments.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-09-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-878.ana.u26	Mr President, Amendment 2.202 calls for the introduction of mechanisms to prevent and combat unauthorised sales of entry tickets, the so-called secondary ticketing problem, and in particular calls for effective measures to be taken to ensure their traceability. On this issue there have been public meetings and debates, in which there has emerged the possibility of having software, which are currently used, for example, by a company in Modena, for the traceability and traceability of the ticket. They are software that allows you to monitor and counter, if not neutralize, the bad practice of secondary ticketing. I would also particularly like to refer to Amendment No 2.206 because it relates to the lyrical-symphonic foundations. I would like to draw the attention of the rapporteur and the Minister here, because in their replies they said that much has been done with this text for the lyric-symphonic foundations in order to try to introduce corrective measures to the mismanagement of these foundations. We do not think that has been done enough. I would like to thank the rapporteur for accepting the amendment of the 5 Star Movement which provides for the identification of management responsibilities among the criteria for granting contributions. Despite such acceptance, however, it has not yet been done enough because, for example, it is not expected a kind of Daspo for the superintendents who over the years have shown that they are not able to manage the lyric-symphonic foundations. I do not mention the names in this House, but those in the sector know very well that I am referring to the usual known ones who, by ministerial appointment, go to occupy the post of superintendent with a waltz from one foundation to another, passing, for example, from Bari to Rome or from Rome to Verona. I therefore ask the Minister to take an act of courage and break with a system that we all know has been deleterious for the management of foundations and to give a favourable opinion - the same prayer to the rapporteur - to amendment 2.06 which provides for very simple measures, which we did not invent, but which respond to requests from those who live in the world of lyrical-symphonic foundations in all its sectors. The amendment proposes that the appointment of superintendents be discontinued, by selecting them instead by public, including international, calls, allowing the public consultation of the curriculum of the aspiring candidate. It also provides for the absence of interests of any kind for all apical charges. When the Minister has interrupted his conversation with Senator Zanda, I will continue my speech because if, eventually, he has to change his opinion, I would like to understand on the basis of what he will do. I'm still patient. The amendment also provides for international public notices. Minister, since you have introduced this procedure for the selection of museum directors, I do not see why we should not have in the lyrical-symphonic foundations of the superintendents selected by public notices also international. I don't understand why you insist instead on wanting to make political appointments; to think badly "you take". The amendment also calls for the absence of any interests of any kind. You know, in fact, Minister, that within some foundations we have had and, perhaps, we still have, artistic directors who have some ownership in the theater agencies. Why not then predict the absence of conflicts for the apical figures? It also requires what I have dubbed the Daspus for the Superintendents; when an inability to manage a foundation has manifested itself, one cannot be appointed to another, but he has left himself free to go and carry out activities elsewhere. I believe that this is the minimum trade union necessary to give a message of seriousness to those who live in that world, which is paying today. In fact, it must be said that those who today are paying the bad management in the foundations are not the apical organs, it is not the administrative Moloch (here too there is a problem of multiplication of the administrative offices, because to think badly you commit sin, but you get it right). Those who are paying today are not those who are parked in the foundations, but the artistic technical masses. I would like to remind everyone that in a symphonic lyrical foundation the artistic mass is the heart, because without orchestrals, dancers and technicians the show is not done. He's not the superintendent on stage as one man show. So, Minister, I really beg you to think about this. We are giving you a great opportunity with this amendment. Mr President, I still have little time to explain amendment 2.212, which calls for - again - a reorder of the legislation for schools of training of national theatres and the introduction of specific criteria to make the assignments of certain apical positions a little more transparent and to ensure a turnover that may not really be appropriate for this world. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-09-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-878.ana.u27	Mr President, I too would like to thank the rapporteur for keeping to all the amending proposals put forward in Article 2. I would like to refer to what Mr Franceschini has said, who is present in this House, but, as has already been the case with her previous colleague, she listens very little. It's a little hard to talk to the minister, busy talking to a senator.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-09-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-878.ana.u28	Ladies and gentlemen, please avoid distracting the Minister while the speeches are taking place.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-09-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-878.ana.u29	Please, Senator Blundo. BLUNDO (M5S). I am sorry, but I would like to link myself to what Mr Franceschini said earlier. It is true that it is a bill of delegation whose contents will probably have to be taken care of by the next Government, but it may well be thoughtful to leave a good indication to posterity. Amendment 2,213, to my first signature, which refers to paragraph 4 (b) of Article 2, simply intends to add to the interventions that the future Government is also called upon to assume that of providing for specific forms of tax facilitation. In fact, it is true that Article 2 lists certain ways of promoting entertainment for young people, but the provision of specific forms of tax relief can be an equally useful measure.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-09-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-878.ana.u30	Mr President, I would like to explain amendment 2,325, which comes back to the very controversial issue of the use of animals in circus activities. I would like to remind myself, the whole House, the Minister and the rapporteur that we have begun to discuss the issue of funding for circuses already in the first law of stability we have dealt with in this parliamentary term. On that occasion, among other things, an agenda was voted by this Assembly, which the same majority supported, which committed the Government to intervene in order to arrive at a gradual - even in that case the word "graduale" was used, giving a term that was then 2018 - sort of the conversion of circus shows in such a way as to gradually arrive at a form of civilization and therefore the prohibition of the use of animals in circuses. I would like to remind all of us that we are talking about funding for these activities and, as I have also told the representatives of the circuses during the hearings in the Commission, I think it is in the very interest of the history of the circus show to carry out this operation, that is to finally arrive at a process of conversion because it serves to save it and to project it in modernity at the same time, above all with a sensitivity, which the Minister himself has highlighted, which has matured in recent years by the public. In this regard, a recent report by Censis on circuses indicates this necessary transition precisely to restore strength and substance to that ancient tradition, in order to prevent it from disappearing even in its relationship with citizens. A recent survey also tells us that a reform is needed: almost 71 percent of the citizens want it. I believe, therefore, that what is envisaged in this text, namely a gradual elimination - because in legislative terms we are talking about this without using other imaginative and confusing terms - gives an indication of this cultural transition of conversion which is in the interest of circuses and circus activities. We have examples, in other parts of the world, of beautiful circus shows, which also in our country are very successful, which are certainly linked to ancient traditions, but from which emerges the strong idea of respect for animals. They are circuses, I repeat, that have a great success all over the world. Our amendment also seeks to eliminate an inconsistency because Article 2 (4) (h) refers to circus activities but, in order to complete the picture, it should also be added to traveling entertainment, because it is clear that the two issues are together. I would like to make one final appeal: this is an important and strong element in starting a conversion; the Minister must remain calm because he is in tune with public opinion, with the new sensitivity gained over the years. Above all this will serve to save the circus; otherwise you certainly do not act in the interest of this ancient tradition.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-09-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-878.ana.u31	The remaining amendments and agendas are set out. I call on the rapporteur and the representative of the Government to comment on the amendments and agendas under discussion.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-09-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-878.ana.u32	Mr President, I am opposed to all the amendments tabled to Article 2, with the exception of Amendment 2,201, for which I propose the following rewording: 'In paragraph 2 (b), after the number 4) insert the following:'(a) the activation of a programmatic table between the Ministry of Cultural Heritage and Tourism and the Italian National Tourist Office (ENIT) aimed at the inclusion of entertainment activities in tourist routes throughout the national territory; (b) '. The first three lines, from the words "enhanced" to the words "available resources" and the words: "of opera" would therefore be replaced. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator Montevecchi, do you accept the proposed reformulation?
ParlaMint-IT_2017-09-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-878.ana.u33	Mr President, I have understood the proposal, but before I speak I would like the rapporteur to clarify what would replace the opera after the words 'inclusion'. DI GIORGI, rapporteur. The words "show activities." In this way, the scope would be widened, which in the amendment refers only to opera. Montevecchi (M5S). Do I have to say it now? PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. If you need more time, speak at the time of the vote. Montevecchi (M5S). In that case, I shall speak at the time of the vote, Mr President.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-09-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-878.ana.u34	Mr President, I am in favour of Amendments 2.218 (text 2) and 2.222. I also call for the provision of amendments 2,226 to 2,232 to be made.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-09-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-878.ana.u35	The Presidency accepts your request and provides for its provision. Compared to the agenda?
ParlaMint-IT_2017-09-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-878.ana.u36	Mr President, I am in favour of all the agendas, with the exception of the G2.105, on which the favourable opinion is subject to the following rewording: in point (a) of the operative part, after the word 'as well', replace the following:
ParlaMint-IT_2017-09-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-878.ana.u37	Senator Blundo, do you accept the proposed reformulation of the agenda G2.105?
ParlaMint-IT_2017-09-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-878.ana.u38	Mr President, I accept the reformulation proposal which is the usual formula.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-09-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-878.ana.u39	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-09-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-878.ana.u40	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-09-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-878.ana.u41	DE PETRIS (Misto-SI-SEL). Mr President, I am speaking on the order of business: the rapporteur has just asked for the provision of certain amendments. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Then intervene on the provision. DE PETRIS (Misto-SI-SEL). Yes, Mr President, but these are foreclosed amendments, because we have just rejected them all in Article 1. That is exactly the same as Senator Arrigoni's earlier signature and which the House rejected ten minutes ago. So I can't understand how they can relive Article 2 and be set aside.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-09-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-878.ana.u42	However, these are two different articles and different content. The provision in any case does not affect the outcome, which will be evaluated later. [[Comments from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-09-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-878.ana.u43	Mr President, I agree with the rapporteur on all the amendments. I welcome the agenda for G2.105, in the reworded text, as well as the remaining agendas.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-09-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-878.ana.u44	We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 2,300. BIGNAMI (Misto-MovX). We call for simultaneous ballots to be carried out by electronic means. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 2,300, tabled by Senator Bocchino and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Amendment 2301 tabled by Senator Petraglia and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 2,200, tabled by Senator Giovanardi. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Amendment 2302, tabled by Senator Petraglia and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 2,303 tabled by Senator Petraglia and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of Amendment 2,304, tabled by Senator Petraglia and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). With regard to Amendment 2,201, Senator Montevecchi, do you accept the rapporteur's proposal for reformulation?
ParlaMint-IT_2017-09-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-878.ana.u45	Mr President, I wonder why the first part does not go well and why there is no interest in enhancing opera performances in the RAI programme since we all see the need for the country to promote opera culture and passion among young people for this form of art. I wonder why this part of the amendment should be expunged.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-09-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-878.ana.u46	Senator, this is not a dialogue with questions and answers. This is the proposal for a reformulation for a favourable opinion. The reasons will be given in a later clarification.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-09-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-878.ana.u47	Montevecchi (M5S). So reworded, the amendment loses some of its essence and I do not accept rewording. Since the rapporteur has acknowledged with her proposal for a rewording that the amendment can indeed be divided into two parts, I would ask whether it is possible to vote separately. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Can you give us the separate parts on which we must vote? Montevecchi (M5S). These are the ones indicated by the rapporteur. The first part begins with the words: The enhancement of opera performances in the RAI schedule up to the words "available resources" and the second part begins with the words: The activation of a programmatic table to the end, with the rewording of the rapporteur who replaces the words: "of opera" with the following: "of entertainment activities." PRESIDENT. - The debate is The problem is that the split vote should ensure that, if one party is approved and the other does not, it still has its own autonomy and is understandable from a literal point of view. Montevecchi (M5S). It is understandable because the amendment can provide for the activation of a programmatic table. There is the subject, the verb and the predicate. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. We vote for the first part that begins with the words: "The strengthening of opera performances". Montevecchi (M5S). After that, the part that starts with the words "Activation" would remain. I don't understand your objection. For me, from a linguistic point of view, the two separate parts are spinning.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-09-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-878.ana.u48	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-09-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-878.ana.u49	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-09-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-878.ana.u50	DI GIORGI, rapporteur. Mr President, I would ask Senator Montevecchi to reflect. The first part is already included because we have already foreseen these contents in other parts of the bill. It is, in fact, expressly said that entertainment activities must have a specific space within RAI programming. There is a section specifically dedicated to this. The interesting aspect that I liked of the amendment - and for this reason I propose to accept the rewording - is the activation of the programmatic table between the Ministry of Cultural Heritage and Activities and Tourism and the Italian National Tourist Board precisely for the valorization, through the art paths, of the show that can serve in this sense. Since the first part is already widely dealt with and introduced into the measure, it seems frankly quite unnecessary to vote for separate parts, considering that the text expresses very well the concept that you put in the first part of the amendment. At this point, I would be against the split vote and invite Senator Montevecchi to accept my rewording if she can. I believe that this is an important concept that we would be going to incorporate into the measure.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-09-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-878.ana.u51	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-09-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-878.ana.u52	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-09-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-878.ana.u53	Montevecchi (M5S). Mr President, since I do not have the opportunity at the moment to verify that this forecast is actually contained within the measure and my memory is betraying me because I cannot remember, I accept the rewording of confidence.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-09-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-878.ana.u54	Since it is a bill linked to the public finance maneuver, we need the opinion of the Budget Commission. Senator Tonini, can you say that? Otherwise, we shall also reject this amendment. It's about activating a programmatic table and I think tables are available.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-09-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-878.ana.u55	Mr President, I should like to examine the written text of the amendment.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-09-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-878.ana.u56	I therefore propose the provision of amendment 2,201. BULGARRELLI (M5S). The table is always the same: only the topic changes! PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by a simultaneous vote on Amendment 2,305 tabled by Senator Petraglia and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 2.202, tabled by Senator Montevecchi and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Amendment 2306 tabled by Senator Petraglia and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 2,307 tabled by Senator Bocchino and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 2,308, tabled by Senator Petraglia and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 2.203, tabled by Senator Montevecchi and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 2.204.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-09-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-878.ana.u57	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-09-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-878.ana.u58	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-09-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-878.ana.u59	Montevecchi (M5S). Mr President, the amendment before us calls on the Government to take note of the fact that, given current events as well, the need to put hand, sooner or later, to the monopoly of SIAE in the management of copyright and related rights, as an intermediary activity. A few months ago, we were stubborn to transpose a directive and continue to guarantee SIAE a kind of monopoly in this area, in fact. Masking him. I therefore believe that in this case the Government and the rapporteur have missed a great opportunity to start to heal this situation, which - I repeat - sooner or later, like a knot, will come to the comb. Even these days we are talking about it and just this morning at the Committee on Culture, Science and Education of the Chamber of Deputies was audited the president of SIAE, Filippo Sugar. Sooner or later we will have to resign ourselves to complying with European legislation and remove this "blessed" monopoly from SIAE. Among other things, it was not only the 5 Star Movement that signalled this problem because it invented such a healthy plant, but also the Antitrust Authority opened an investigation procedure with respect to the activities of SIAE, following the numerous reports it received from artists and users. So once again put your head under the sand, but the problem will recover. [[Applause from Senator Lucidi.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-09-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-878.ana.u60	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-09-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-878.ana.u61	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-09-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-878.ana.u62	FUCKSIA (FL (Id-PL, PLI)). Mr President, I would like to support this amendment by saying that the Federation of Liberty Group will vote in favour of it, as did Amendment 2.212. I would also ask for the possibility of adding to the amendment the signature of all members of the Group.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-09-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-878.ana.u63	The Presidency takes note of this. I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 2.204, tabled by Senator Montevecchi and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Mr Tonini, can you give an opinion on Amendment 2,201 (text 2), which was previously put aside?
ParlaMint-IT_2017-09-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-878.ana.u64	Mr President, I would like to make a point of order.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-09-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-878.ana.u65	I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 2,201 (text 2), tabled by Senator Montevecchi and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 2.309, tabled by Senator Bocchino and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 2.205, tabled by Senator Montevecchi and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the vote on the first part of Amendment 2.206.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-09-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-878.ana.u66	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-09-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-878.ana.u67	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-09-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-878.ana.u68	Montevecchi (M5S). Mr President, I would like to make a quick explanation of vote on this amendment because, despite the opportunity we have given, both the Minister and the rapporteur, and therefore also the majority and the Government, to do something good for the lyrical-symphonic foundation, for their future and for their management, this opportunity has been refused. Let's read, then, what they rejected. By expressing an opinion contrary to this amendment and voting against it, the Superintendents will continue to be appointed by the Minister. Therefore, they will probably continue to be subjected to more political logics than to merit: there continues to be this serious danger. There will continue to be this danger and, perhaps, there will continue to exist, within some foundations, conflicts of interest between supervisors, artistic directors or, however, apical organs that can have cotitularity within theatrical agencies and, therefore, decide which artists work, or do not work, not according to merit logic, but based on profit logic or clientele. And we will continue to witness the waltz of the seasons of the superintendents who have distinguished themselves by the bad management of the foundations and who will continue to dance between one foundation and the other. For their bad management, they will continue to pay above all (in fact, exclusively) the artistic and technical masses. Thanks to the 5 Star Movement, which tabled an amendment and had it approved in the Commission, among the criteria for the disbursement of funds there will be possible identification of the responsibility of the supervisor in the management, which is the best we have managed to achieve. So, Minister, at this moment you and your Government assume this responsibility and - believe me - not only in this House. I am convinced, in fact, that, when there are other meetings with the operators of the lyric-symphonic foundations, this fact will be widely remembered. You are missing a great opportunity, demonstrating a profound inability to listen. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]] 18.25 p.m.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-09-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-878.ana.u69	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-09-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-878.ana.u70	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-09-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-878.ana.u71	ENDRIZZI (M5S). Mr President, before we proceed to the vote, I would ask you to check the unattended cards. Maybe some of your colleagues are present without your knowledge. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Secretary Senators to carry out a check on this.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-09-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-878.ana.u72	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-09-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-878.ana.u73	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-09-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-878.ana.u74	Montevecchi (M5S). Mr President, why do we only vote for the first part of the amendment?
ParlaMint-IT_2017-09-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-878.ana.u75	Because there are parts that are common to other amendments, based on the Presidency's assessments, and then there are foreclosures, if the Senate rejects the amendment.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-09-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-878.ana.u76	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-09-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-878.ana.u77	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-09-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-878.ana.u78	CALIENDO (FI-PdL XVII). Mr President, if we only vote for the first part of this amendment (which we also find in the following until 2.209) I would remind you that we could not vote in favour of point 3) on which we should all agree. So if we vote for the first part of Amendment 2,206 to preclude the remaining part - probably to vote against points 1 and 2 - on which I too would vote against - we risk not being able to vote in favour of point 3. I believe that the fact that a superintendent, who is not only not worthy but has even demerited, can no longer be appointed in another function of the same kind, agrees with us all, Minister.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-09-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-878.ana.u79	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-09-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-878.ana.u80	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-09-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-878.ana.u81	Montevecchi (M5S). Mr President, would you kindly indicate to me what part of the amendment is the first?
ParlaMint-IT_2017-09-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-878.ana.u82	Senator Montevecchi, the first part of amendment 2.206 should be put to the vote until the words: "of the artistic director" are put to the vote. The subsequent amendments begin with the same words, so they would be precluded by the possible rejection of the first part of amendment 2.206.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-09-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-878.ana.u83	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-09-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-878.ana.u84	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-09-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-878.ana.u85	MALAN (FI-PdL XVII). Mr President, the vote on the first part of Amendment 2.06, which you pointed out, is aimed at the so-called 'kangaroo'. In fact, if the first part of this amendment does not pass, the following amendments are also precluded, so if we do not pass this first vote, none of the points in these amendments can be dealt with. Then I interpret Senator Caliendo's speech and repeat his proposal to go over the aspect, let us say, "kangaroo" of the vote and to vote for separate parts, for example points 1 and 2, and then separately point 3, so that the House can express its views on the content of the amendment. PRESIDENT. - The debate is You therefore propose a split vote, first putting points 1 and 2 of the amendment to the vote and then point 3). MALAN (FI-PdL XVII). Yes, ma'am.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-09-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-878.ana.u86	We must check whether the House agrees with your proposal, according to our own rules. I put to the vote the proposal to vote on amendment 2.206 for separate parts. It's approved. The first part of amendment 2.206 will therefore be put to the vote from the beginning of the text to the words "lyric-symphonic" (i.e. until the end of point 2). MALAN (FI-PdL XVII). Without prejudice to the fact that point 3 must also be voted on. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. If you vote for separate parties, it's assumed that's the case, Senator Malan. MALAN (FI-PdL XVII). I would not like to see the first two lines missing, and then we cannot vote on point 3). PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Be quiet, Senator Malan. I call on the rapporteur to comment on the two parts of amendment 2.206.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-09-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-878.ana.u87	Mr President, I confirm the opposite opinion on the first part of Amendment 2.06, i.e. on points 1 and 2. As regards the second part, i.e. paragraph 3 which reads: In the case of cases of liability established for the incorrect performance of the functions relating to economic and financial management, the Superintendent is precluded from being appointed for the same role and similar roles, also in other foundations, I give a favourable opinion.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-09-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-878.ana.u88	To be precise, the separation of the text concerns points 1 and 2, which we will now vote together, because the a-bis premise of the amendment must be maintained together with point 3, for a logic of the functioning of the standard and respect for grammar. I therefore refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of points 1) and 2) of Amendment 2.06 tabled by Senator Montevecchi and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of the remainder of Amendment 2.06, tabled by Senator Montevecchi and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). We must now check the foreclosures in the light of the votes on Amendment 2.06, which have had alternate results of partial approval and partial rejection. We therefore temporarily reject Amendments Nos 2,207, 2,208 and 2,209. I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 2.210, tabled by Senator Montevecchi and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). We have broken the node of the foreclosures: Amendment 2.208 is not included. I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Amendment 2,207, tabled by Senator Montevecchi and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 2.209, tabled by Senator Montevecchi and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Amendment 2.211 is inadmissible. I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 2.212, tabled by Senator Montevecchi and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 2.310.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-09-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-878.ana.u89	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-09-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-878.ana.u90	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-09-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-878.ana.u91	PETRAGLIA (Misto-SI-SEL). Mr President, the amendment 2.310, which we have tabled and on which we will of course vote in favour, raises a specific issue with respect to the whole bill, which is the relationship between the public and the private. Minister Franceschini, in his reply, told us that with the Art bonus over 180 million euros were collected. With this amendment we want to say that the intervention of private funding cannot at all constitute an alibi in order to eliminate the investment that must necessarily be made by the public, be it State, Regions or Municipalities. I hope that this clarification can be shared by everyone. All of us, in fact, have said that the deep cuts in culture have led in recent years to a cultural impoverishment of the entire country and to think that we have to replace the investment and the role of the public with the role of the private would mean that we have absolutely not solved the problem. [[Applause from Senator Cervellini.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-09-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-878.ana.u92	I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 2.310, tabled by Senator Petraglia and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Amendment 2.213 is inadmissible. I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 2,311, tabled by Senator Petraglia and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 2,312, tabled by Senator Petraglia and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 2.313, tabled by Senator Petraglia and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 2,314, tabled by Senator Petraglia and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 2,316, tabled by Senator Petraglia and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 2.317, tabled by Senator Petraglia and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 2,318, tabled by Senator Petraglia and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 2,319, tabled by Senator Petraglia and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I would like to refer to the nominal vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 2,320, tabled by Senator Bocchino and other senators, identical to amendment 2,214, tabled by Senator Centinaio and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Amendment 2.215 is inadmissible. I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 2.216, tabled by Senator Centinario and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 2.217.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-09-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-878.ana.u93	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-09-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-878.ana.u94	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-09-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-878.ana.u95	Mr Giovanardi (PL-Id) Mr President, Minister, always in a spirit of cooperation and dialogue, since this is an amendment which somehow refers to those laid down, and always deepening the subject that is fascinating us, I would point out that, starting from the etymology of the word "circumcircum," the Italian equestrian circus is a round track of about 13 meters created to allow the harmonious exhibition of the horses that constitute its foundation. Therefore, in the tradition of the Italian equestrian circus, it is built to make horses perform. It is evident that the elimination of all kinds of animals from the circus means simply to erase the tradition of the Italian circus and its history. Think only of the dozens of films, the hundreds of painters, the endless production of books on the circus, its history, its tradition and the animals in the circus. Mr. Minister, I'll tell you with my heart in my hand and with a joke: who is without Brambilla throws the first stone. I mean that each of us knows that there are positions in the various groups that I would call fundamentalist, but that they have every right to exist. However, in the face of reasonable objections (which, however, make a step in their direction in relation to certain animal species), these positions must not lead to paradoxes which, in my opinion, make the law unconstitutional. The paradox would be to get rid of the animals for which the circus was born and which find in the circus their natural location, as well as in many other activities that are not forbidden, indeed they are facilitated by the State, like those I have mentioned before. I therefore ask whether it is possible, for a matter of style and form, not to vote on this amendment and put it aside, putting it in the bag with others.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-09-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-878.ana.u96	I would ask the rapporteur whether she is in favour of Senator Giovanardi's proposal on the provision of amendment 2.217. DI GIORGI, rapporteur. Yes, Mr. President. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Amendment 2.217 is therefore set aside. I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 2,321, tabled by Senator Bocchino and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 2,322, tabled by Senator Petraglia and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 2,324, tabled by Senator Petraglia and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 2,323, tabled by Senator Petraglia and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the vote on amendment 2.218 (text 2).
ParlaMint-IT_2017-09-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-878.ana.u97	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-09-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-878.ana.u98	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-09-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-878.ana.u99	ICHINO (PD). Mr President, I would like to stress the importance of amendment 2.218 (text 2), aimed at solving the problem referred to earlier with reference to an amendment tabled by Senator Montevecchi, on the road to harmonizing the Italian copyright law with respect to the European directive.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-09-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-878.ana.u100	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-09-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-878.ana.u101	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-09-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-878.ana.u102	BIGNAMI (Misto-MovX). Mr President, I would like to add my signature to Amendment 2.218 (text 2).
ParlaMint-IT_2017-09-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-878.ana.u103	The Presidency takes note of this. I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 2.218 (text 2), tabled by Senator Ichino and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 2.219, tabled by Senator Bocchino and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 2,325, which is identical to Amendment 2,326.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-09-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-878.ana.u104	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-09-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-878.ana.u105	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-09-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-878.ana.u106	Montevecchi (M5S). Mr President, we have tabled Amendment 2,326 because in reality there could be a loophole to the rule that the use of animals in circuses should be phased out, with a semantic game, i.e. using the expression 'traveling shows' instead of circuses to mask animals as travelling shows. Playing on this semantic ambiguity, when the norm will enter the regime, you could again find in Italy circuses that, under the spoils of traveling shows, continue to use animals for their shows. Therefore, since the legislator has clearly expressed the will that in Italy we move towards the progressive disposal of the use of animals in circuses, I believe that this risk should be avoided and clearly specified in the norm that any kind of travelling spectacle cannot use animals inside.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-09-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-878.ana.u107	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-09-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-878.ana.u108	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-09-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-878.ana.u109	BONFRISCO (FL (Id-PL, PLI)). Mr President, the amendments before us indicate something that is going through this House, as well as the country, and that, in my opinion, is divided into two parts. Mr President, I will be very quick and I will not abuse colleagues' time. The first part is represented by a cultural theme, of advancement on a difficult, delicate and fragile terrain of humanity, nature and the relationship between man and nature, also through all those living beings that are animals. Then there is a theme more related to the ordinary and the daily. In our daily life, as Mr Giovanardi rightly pointed out earlier, obviously with the meaning and taste of the paradox, we have opportunities to measure ourselves not so much and not only with a cultural issue, but also with a much more earthly issue, which concerns not only culture, but precisely with respect for us and all sentient beings. I think that before dealing with a subject that goes through all of us with different gradations and sensibilities, but now they go slowly unifying (in fact, while before we considered the total exploitation of animals natural, today on the subject we have different gradations), we must reflect on the fact that there are things that we still consider indispensable, like eating (even if we do not wonder how much it costs) or having fun. I think when man's fun is at stake, time can't be stopped. But that fun, if it passes through the suffering of another being, is no longer so for me. I believe that a step forward in this respect must be taken in this century. I therefore ask the Members who have tabled these important amendments, like others, to find that mediation that is useful for moving forward. If we can proceed gradually today, let's do it, but keeping the principle that everything can gradually evolve and change, but that there is little to discuss and change about fun. I conclude my brief speech, which is just an explanation of vote in support of the call for a new respect for animals, including through the way traveling shows, the circus and fun in general, wherever this happens (Mr Giovanardi is right about this). I conclude by reminding my colleague Giovanardi and all those who are also inspired by important religious cultures and traditions, that animals are also creatures of God, that in their changing suffering are a sign of the universal imprint of sin and of the universal expectation of redemption. I believe that these words of Paul VI will help us to find the balance that this civil assembly is obliged to find.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-09-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-878.ana.u110	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-09-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-878.ana.u111	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-09-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-878.ana.u112	CIRINNA' (PD). Mr President, I take the floor briefly, having also signed amendment 2,325, to make an appeal to the Minister and to the Commission for Public Education, Cultural Heritage. If we are talking about culture - and it is precisely about entertainment that we are discussing - we must realize that, to date, making culture and show with the exploitation of animals does not take us anywhere. We have the opportunity to show our children the animals in freedom through thousands of possibilities (I think of many television channels, even specific, that come into our homes every day). Let me remind you, colleagues, that the only circus in the active world that comes in all the cities of Italy, including Rome, which overbooks ticket offices and fails to satisfy all bookings is the Cirque du Soleil, a circus in which only humans exist. Well, I think that man must amaze man with his abilities: there is no tiger that jumps into the fire that amazes me more than a trapeze player or a juggler or, in any case, those who have physical abilities even for his training. I wonder, then, why, Minister, keep playing words with a travelling spectacle. I have been city councilwoman in Rome for twenty-two years: those big trucks happen, where inside there is a shark or a turtle of water, that they place in the great suburbs of our cities asking for a ridiculous ticket, of one, two, five euros, to keep that animal in a perennial suffering. I wonder, then, why we who are discussing a huge change, at last with a new regulation, do not want to keep the bar straight on what is now being overcome in the world. Some colleagues have spoken before me, but I tell you that our mayors are also in great difficulty: there are dozens of mayors who no longer allow the occupation of soil, who do not give the areas to circuses who have animals. Then there are appeals to the TAR. Therefore, we meet those who make an effort by removing animals from their spectacle, by, for example, making a fiscal incentive policy, providing for some reductions, granting them free areas in the municipalities against the disposal of animals. Then yes, Minister, we could maintain support and help to the circuses who, by giving up the exploitation, the ostentation of captive animals, maintain the predominant part of their spectacle where it is the man who amazes, the man with his abilities. This could encourage and not abolish a circus tradition, which is, for example, that of the great school of Verona, where our young people learn to become trapezists rather than jugglers or acrobats. In this way we try to maintain a tradition with concrete help, but we finally give a signal and align ourselves with Europe. Colleagues, children understand that the tiger that jumps into the fire would never do it by its own free choice, and if we have to make culture let's really do it. [[Applause from Senators De Petris and Taverna.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-09-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-878.ana.u113	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-09-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-878.ana.u114	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-09-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-878.ana.u115	CALIENDO (FI-PdL XVII). Mr President, although I agree with what my colleague Mrs Cirinna said in the last instance, I believe that the amendments in question, 2.325, 2.326 and 2.327, should be considered in the light of the content of paragraph 4 (h) of paragraph 4. I follow the rapporteur's suggestions regarding the amendments tabled by my colleague, Mrs Giovanardi, which dealt in part with the same issue, in particular circus activities and the restriction of the use of animals. I therefore believe that they should be set aside together with those of Senator Giovanardi so that at the end of the day they give a unique indication of the whole issue.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-09-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-878.ana.u116	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-09-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-878.ana.u117	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-09-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-878.ana.u118	Mr Giovanardi (PL-Id) Mr President, I keep asking the same question: does animal welfare mean that we are all opposed to any form of exploitation or activity that brings suffering to animals? Yeah, it doesn't rain on that. If, however, we argue that the use of animals in any form is exploitation, then, I repeat, why are we not forbidding horse riding by a measure like this or by a similar measure? Do the racetracks have to be closed or do they have to stay open? At the Olympic Games, horse riding activities, dressage must be done or is it horse exploitation? In all the activities of the cinema and theater in which animals are used, is this possible or must it be prohibited? Should the Palio di Siena continue or be repealed? I know the answer of the colleagues who spoke before me: all these things must be eliminated. But I don't think that's the way it should be. For man too work is fatigue and commitment, but there are works carried out by man in symbiosis with the animal that exalt man. Just as work, even tiring, exalts man, there are works that lead the animal to collaborate with man and that do not humiliate him. It is also what happens with pets in the apartments: when the dog comes down from the fifth floor in a certain way or is used by the elderly lady as a company, that dog is not performing a function related to its nature, but is doing a service to that lady and I think it is also fair, because I do not think that people can not keep a dog in the apartment, even if in reality, repairing the speech we make on circuses, as the dog cannot work in the circus, in the same way could not be in an apartment. If we want to achieve a decent result, let us bear in mind that the circus without animals dies, fails, because millions of families and children today, on the threshold of 2018, go to the circus. Who like me has been with his grandchildren knows the great enthusiasm of the children, their laughter, their fun and their admiration when they see the animals coming. Sure, under certain conditions. If someone doesn't like the circus, don't go, but don't take away the freedom from others. Once the State has set all the conditions of strict control over animal welfare, it does not prevent animals, in particular horses, from doing what they do everywhere, starting from riding. In the past few days, I have seen many people riding in the Lucan hills. Well, the horse to be mounted must be tamed, the rider when riding a horse, somehow exploits it. So we're gonna ban the horse? Following certain reasonings, so it should be, but I am not for the elimination of the horse. Senator Bonfrisco has made intelligent arguments about changing sensitivity. Two thousand years ago it was the lions who ate Christians for the people to have fun; certainly there has been a good evolution since then, but now let's not exaggerate: it seems excessive to go from beasts that ate Christians to a system in which it is not possible to have a human working relationship even with dogs and horses. I again propose to the wisdom of the Minister and the rapporteur that an honourable compromise be found here at the end of the debate, which above all does not cover us with ridicule in front of the world, because there is no country in Europe where animals cannot be used. Contrary to what some say, animals can be used in Europe, even in France the circus is a national glory that is exalted - and not humiliated - as one of the greatest manifestations that France has produced. We find a decent, compromise solution if you want, but have its own reasonableness. [[Applause from the FL Group (Id-PL, PLI).]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-09-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-878.ana.u119	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-09-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-878.ana.u120	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-09-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-878.ana.u121	DE PETRIS (Misto-SI-SEL). Mr President, I would like once again to remind everyone - and the data are absolutely unverifiable - that we are talking about a sector that is in a deep crisis and is in danger of failing, we are certainly not talking about a sector that is active. The reasoning we have tried to make is aimed at reconciling a new and different sensibility to accompany a passage that is gradually taking place in all sectors and that places the value of respect for animals as a new common element. The data shows us every time there is a different sensitivity. These millions of spectators who go to the circus see only Senator Giovanardi, because we are talking about a sector that is in crisis. Mr Giovanardi (PL-Id) Who said that? DE PETRIS (Misto-SI-SEL). Let us be clear: this is a process of conversion which does not only raise the question of the respect of animals, which cannot be used for our fun. But what does affectionated animals have to do with their use for entertainment purposes? With this delegation on culture and entertainment, we try to introduce a strong and important criterion, a true cultural leap, which is also in the interest of circus activities. The colleagues have explained very well - these are the data that count - that we have hosted also in Rome (and not enough reservations to satisfy all the requests) a great circus like the Cirque du soleil, that is made of great artists: acrobats, jugglers and a school that has made again alive and important the circus tradition, precisely because it has made of that element, that is, the overcoming of the use of animals, an element of strength. And it was an important choice from an ethical and cultural point of view. To this day we are called and amendments 2,325 and 2,326 have the aim of clarifying one very important element: there are not only circus activities, but we also have to add the activities of travelling entertainment, because we are faced with possible uses that risk to let through the window what we wanted to get out of the door. By the way, it is not true that this does not happen in other European countries. I would like to remind you that there are now forty countries in the world that have banned the use of animals in circuses and fifteen in the European Union. So, what are we proposing? We are trying to take a step forward and a qualitative leap that meets a transversal sensitivity. Here there is no majority and opposition, but these are different maturations and sensibilities. This would be - again to the Minister - an important act and would give a signal to our country, because it would really allow the circus to live and not to let it die, as it is happening. Therefore, I would like to make a further appeal not to hesitate and not to think that we are taking too rash a step. We are taking a step in the right direction and in order to complete it we ask to understand in the norm also the traveling shows, because I believe it is an additional element of clarification. [[Applause from the Misso-SI-SEL Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-09-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-878.ana.u122	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-09-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-878.ana.u123	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-09-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-878.ana.u124	BUEMI (Aut (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT)-PSI-MAIE). Mr President, I very much appreciate the passionate debate on this issue. As soon as possible, I hope that we will also address in this House the question of the fate of human beings, who are also at stake and from many points of view, such as health, immigration and economic conditions. We hope to meet soon on this. I believe that we need to raise a problem and strike a balance in this matter, questioning issues that are of economic importance and on which diversity of treatment takes place. Let me give you an example: are the horse and mule used in the mountains to transport wood to unworkable places not subjected to fatigue and stress? Or do they do it for fun? The same goes for the horse or other animal that is engaged in a show. Is a dolphin that is encouraged to jump continuously, working and producing show, at the maximum of his exaltation of freedom, or is he also oriented towards certain labors? I believe that we must approach the problem with less radicalism, knowing that there is an evolution that is not necessary to induce by law, but passes through a cultural maturation. I do not see the need to impose compulsory paths and ban certain uses in absolute terms, because they are part of the dynamics of things. Even the human being in the last century was exploited in a different way (and this still happens very much in certain parts of the world) and was used and subjected to more serious conditions, both from the point of view of work and risk, compared to the current condition. It is in the normal evolution of things, but we always realize that there is a little difference between a man and a potato.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-09-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-878.ana.u125	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-09-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-878.ana.u126	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-09-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-878.ana.u127	Montevecchi (M5S). Mr President, I would like to add a question to the comments already made by my colleagues, in particular by Mrs De Petris. Two amendments are called for on the basis of a provision already made for Senator Giovanardi's amendments from amendment 2.226 onwards. I would like to point out that Senator Giovanardi's amendments are additional to paragraph 4 to point (o) of paragraph 4 by adding the letter o-bis ), while Senator De Petris' amendment 2,325 and my amendment 2,326 speak on the letter h) by adding the words: "traveling spectacle" after the words on circus activities. I would like to ask the Presidency, the rapporteur and the Government to assess the relevance of these two amendments to those proposed by Senator Giovanardi, because we are actually speaking on the letter h), while those of Senator Giovanardi on the letter o). I do not think there is any logical connection between the amendments of Senator Giovanardi and ours, whose aim is to add a specification, while those of Senator Giovanardi intervene on other matters, albeit similar because we are always talking about the use of animals present in circuses. I'm waiting for an answer. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-09-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-878.ana.u128	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-09-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-878.ana.u129	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-09-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-878.ana.u130	Mr Quagliarello (FL-Id-PL, PLI)). Mr President, the debate, in fact, has a very serious substance, namely the evolution of anthropocentrism and the relationship between man and animal. Mr President, I think that there is a possibility of mediation among the sensitivities in this House. I am in a position to preside over the smallest Senate Group within which there are completely different sensibilities such as those of Senator Fucksia and Senator Giovanardi. We have managed to find a conciliation on one thing. One cannot suddenly move from a situation that, among other things, is rooted in tradition to a situation completely opposite. To get to the 4.0 circus, you have to do the 2.0, 3.0 circus and then you will get to 4.0. It seems to me that I have grasped an important awareness in the intervention of Minister Franceschini in this sense, because to say that there is a need for a gradual suppression, in my view, means two things: not only that graduality must be interpreted over time, but also with respect to the different species of animals. It is clear that there are some where abuse is more evident and others which, as has been shown, are more closely linked to the roots of the circus and for which collaboration with man is a more written thing in tradition. Between the lap of a horse and the jump inside a fiery circle of a lion there is a clear difference; it is common sense and this House should do so. Mr President, I call on my colleagues, the rapporteur and the Government to make the same effort to understand that we have supported in our small part. If we have managed to arrive at a synthesis starting from such different positions - you have heard the speeches of Senator Bonfrisco and Senator Giovanardi - I believe that the same effort can support the Assembly, giving an overall contribution to a matter on which it is good - and there is the possibility - that no one goes out defeated. [[Applause from the FL Group (Id-PL, PLI).]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-09-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-878.ana.u131	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-09-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-878.ana.u132	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-09-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-878.ana.u133	CALIENDO (FI-PdL XVII). Mr President, I would just like to draw attention to the fact that Senator Montevecchi has decided to stop at the issue of the letter o)-bis of the amendments tabled by Senator Giovanardi, who actually have the same content as letter h), with a further specification. We have put aside amendment 2.217, first signed by Senator Tosato, which has the same content as in point (h), even if referred to in point (e). If all these amendments are put forward, the rapporteur and the government can give us a uniform response so that we can direct our vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-09-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-878.ana.u134	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-09-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-878.ana.u135	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-09-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-878.ana.u136	CHAMPOLILLO (M5S). Mr President, I have listened to all the speeches made by my fellow Members and we must reiterate a concept which perhaps is not clear to many here. Many colleagues have said that children are having fun at the circus: they are certainly curious about the animals, but certainly the circus animals are not having fun. Mr President, I would like to say to Senator Quagliariello that there are no A-grade animals and B-grade animals that can be tortured in the circus. Animals must all be removed from the circus [[Applause from Senator Simeoni]] , because they are all equal and have the same right to live on this planet, as well as Senator Quagliariello and the other senators who intervened, and like Senator Giovanardi, with whom I must say I agree. He said that if we are to remove animals from the circus, they must also be removed from the racetrack and the cinema. He's right: we have to do it now! Mr Giovanardi (PL-Id) Mine was a paradox! CHAMPOLILLO (M5S). Let's start now. Let's get all the animals out of the circus. Go see how they are tortured in cages during exercises and rehearsals. Animals suffer terribly. This is a great shame, despite the fact that the Vice-President who is chairing this House is laughing at this moment because I do not know why. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Then I'll tell him. CHAMPOLILLO (M5S). It must then be made clear, and perhaps it must also be clear to those in this House who are proud to drink a liter of milk a day and to defend animals or, perhaps, to those who think they love those animals so much that they eat at lunch. Let's start with the circus: remove all the animals and immediately, remove them from the traveling shows and above all remove the dolphins, who suffer terribly and are literally tortured in the dolphins. [[Applause from the M5S and Mixed Groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-09-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-878.ana.u137	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-09-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-878.ana.u138	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-09-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-878.ana.u139	RANUCCI (PD). Mr President, I rise after a very passionate speech by Mr Ciampollo, to bring everything back to a much more serene dimension. It seems to me that the Senate is having a constructive discussion and I would like to remind you that for decades now wild animals have not been taken in forests or savannahs; the reproduction of animals takes place directly in circuses. Surely, those animals can never be relocated, neither in nature nor in zoos. Clearly, none of us want to see animals suffer. I don't want to see dogs living in 10 or 15 square feet apartments suffer either. I also don't want to see the horses that, with dressage, get pricked every day and undergo some kind of training. And, then, precisely by virtue of this calm discussion, we could really find a meeting point for a gradual decrease of the animals in the circuses, such as - for example - for some species such as the ferocious and wild ones, in order to preserve the presence of the horse, the dog and those animals that have always been present in the circuses. I want to remind you here that dogs, with agility dogs, are definitely under pressure and, however, do not have a natural predisposition to do certain exercises. So they also suffer a form of psychological pressure. I therefore ask the rapporteur to find a real meeting point. I remember talking about six thousand Italians working in this area. True, the Cirque du Soleil is a wonderful sight, but you can see it in Las Vegas, New York, Berlin or Paris. It has nothing to do with the Italian circus. It is a multinational that makes money with great artists. We're talking about something else. Minister, you have made a very balanced speech. I think of a meeting point: no one wants to see the tiger jump in the circle of fire anymore, but we can't help but make this happen gradually. Those animals cannot be slaughtered and cannot be relocated to other environments, except with great difficulty. And you have to make sure that there are shows that can still cheer children up with certain types of animals. [[Applause from Senators Giovanardi and Rizzotti.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-09-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-878.ana.u140	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-09-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-878.ana.u141	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-09-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-878.ana.u142	Granaiola (Art.1-MDP). Mr President, in asking for both of these amendments to be accepted, I would like to stress one aspect that I have already highlighted in my general speech. The intervention of Senator Giovanardi has created great suffering for me and continue to bring great suffering to me even today's interventions and the comparisons made. Yes, Senator Giovanardi, I am also opposed to the Palio di Siena because, when I see the animals treated in a certain way, there is no fun for me; indeed, my suffering is very great. I live in a provincial city where - alas - the circuses that stop do not keep the animals in due condition. I believe, however, that I am not the only one living in a provincial city that sees certain phenomena. I would also like to remind you that the issue of travelling entertainment is already in the sphere of MIBACT. Therefore, colleagues and colleagues have done well to table the amendments in question in order to clarify them. Moreover, since I am a person who, when he firmly believes in one thing, is not willing to mediate, I think the Minister has done the best possible mediation; indeed, in my opinion, it is too much. This, in fact, is not only a question of civilization but also an economic one. And it's not true, Senator Ranucci, that Cirque du Soleil only goes to Vegas. I live in Viareggio and luckily, thanks to the enlightened president of the Carnival Foundation, we have seen a beautiful show of Cirque du Soleil. In addition, I consider the school in Verona to be one of the few schools that still gives important job opportunities to young people. That is why it is absolutely important to support these points. [[Applause from the PD Group and Senator De Petris.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-09-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-878.ana.u143	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-09-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-878.ana.u144	Senator Fucksia, I remind you that your Group has already expressed itself widely. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-09-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-878.ana.u145	FUCKSIA (FL (Id-PL, PLI)). Mr President, I would just like to say that the concept of gradualness and improvement must still be accepted, because it is a matter of principle that cannot be contradicted. However, I would also urge you not to make an easy rhetoric. Today we talk about equestrian circus, and therefore about the treatment of animals, and, speaking of fun, children are happy to see animals and to have contact with them, because they have lost contact with nature, with the seasons, with time. And, therefore, they enjoy seeing the animals, but not ridiculed. Moreover, what we are examining today is only a part of the problem because then, by entering into the merit of how animals are trained and treated, there would be many stakes. The bill under consideration, however, does not represent the right opportunity to address the issue, because it does not deal with intensive farms, barrels, animal abuse, races and many other things. I therefore invite you, for the umpteenth time, before the end of this legislature, to address the speech globally through a single text to be amended in detail on animals, their diet, veterinary medicine, pet animals and farm animals and so on. And we can do that by calendarizing a bill that millions and millions of people have been soliciting for more than two years. The solicitation has come to everyone. I read your names, but it comes out of knowledge to others. I am talking about bill No. 1482, the single text on the protection of animals. So really, based on a single, amending text, we could change the perspective and say that animals are sentient beings, and so we could evolve and talk not only about Industry 4.0 or circus 4.0, but also about man 4.0. We see the circus, in fact, no longer in its own place, but in other situations, and often also in this Parliament. [[Applause from Senators Bignami and Giovanardi.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-09-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-878.ana.u146	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-09-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-878.ana.u147	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-09-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-878.ana.u148	Zuffada (FI-PdL XVII). Mr President, the debate that has taken place today has a very wide scope and it is not just about the welfare of the animals of traveling circuses and equestrian circuses. It has concerned and concerns - speaking of the so much-declaimed civilization - the welfare of animals in its entirety, which also includes animals bred for the production of food of animal origin. The speech, therefore, is much broader, as is also evident. Even on the basis of my professional knowledge, I can say that it is quite unlikely that in equestrian circuses there is the possibility that animals live in a state of total well-being. The ways of moving, breeding and keeping animals are often and gladly not very good, indeed there is much to improve. However, leaving aside the exotic animals, on which I believe there is no discussion, because they are absolutely out of their world and therefore must not be brought into the equestrian circuses, I would like to remind you that as regards, for example, the equines, born and lived within the circus, it is clear that the problem of the following must be posed. The immediate closure of the equestrian shows inside the circuses would mean that such animals would be sent to the slaughterhouse. [[Applause from Senators Quagliariello and Rizzotti]] This seems to me to be an elementary consideration. Everyone says that it is not so, but just go and see the end that horses do when they no longer run in galloping stations: they are systematically sent to the slaughter. The proposal is therefore twofold: on the one hand, there is the opportunity and need to establish criteria and methods of verification for animal welfare in the circus world. In particular, some animals are kept well, while others are kept very badly, so there must be precise rules and controls. On the other hand, animals currently inside the equestrian circus should be considered. Therefore, the hypothesis of gradual choice, logical and legitimate, of the removal of circus animals is understandable, otherwise the interest of those animals, which would be taken to the slaughterhouse, is not made. We need a minimum of improvement in conditions and some attention in the provision of funding, while respecting the welfare of the animal; but, on the other hand, I believe that graduality is the most logical response, in the interests of both animals and workers within the circus. [[Applause from the FI-PdL XVII Group and Senator Bignami.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-09-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-878.ana.u149	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-09-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-878.ana.u150	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-09-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-878.ana.u151	DI GIORGI, rapporteur. Mr President, in view of the debate that has taken place, I believe that there is a need for further reflection. I therefore propose the provision of amendments 2,325, 2,326 and 2,327.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-09-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-878.ana.u152	The Presidency has to do so. I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 2.220, tabled by Senator Petraglia and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 2.221, tabled by Senator Petraglia and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 2.222, tabled by Senator Ferrara Elena and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 2,328, tabled by Senator Bocchino and other senators, identical to amendment 2,223, tabled by Senator Centinario and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 2,329, tabled by Senator Petraglia and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 2.224, tabled by Senator Liuzzi. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 2.330, tabled by Senator Petraglia and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 2.225, tabled by Senator Montevecchi and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Amendments 2.226 to 2.232 are provided for. Having been accepted by the Government, the agendas of the day G2,100, G2,101, G2,102, G2,103, G2,104 and G2,105 (text 2) will not be put to the vote. Since there are some proposed amendments, we cannot proceed to the vote on Rule 2. We shall therefore proceed to the examination of Article 3 on which amendments have been tabled and an agenda which I would ask the authors to explain.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-09-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-878.ana.u153	Mr President, Article 3 is important because it provides for the creation of the Higher Council for Live Performing Arts, which - as we have also seen in other measures - is almost all of its ministerial appointment and is also conceived as a power centralisation body. Since it will be called upon to carry out the functions particularly important for the live entertainment sector, because it will express opinions, will give guidelines to the Ministry, will formulate proposals and will also guide technical tables, I believe that it would be appropriate, as a minimum trade union gesture, to make its activities public, especially in relation to opinions or acts relating to the allocation or management of public resources. I hope that on Article 3 there will be good listening and we will take inspiration from the proposed amendments coming from the 5 Star Movement, because this could be an opportunity to start introducing new practices, a new modus operandi within the higher councils. Amendment 3301 calls for greater transparency of activities, partly because I remember that public activities are citizens' money and, therefore, it is right that any citizen should have the opportunity, if interested, to verify the monitoring and monitoring activities of the Board. Other amendments, on which I will speak later in an explanation of vote, concern the composition of the Council. We have focused not so much on the number of members who make up the council and on those who will be chosen by one body rather than another, that is, from one sphere of the world of live entertainment rather than from another. Instead, we have been concerned to ask the Minister to introduce the mechanism not of appointment, but of choice, because we believe that sooner or later we must conform to the practices in other countries, which prefer, precisely in order to give greater importance to merit, selection rather than appointment. We have also taken care to broaden the audience of those who may have representatives or may choose their representatives within the council. If it is true that it is called upon to carry out important functions, we believe that in order to do this we must ensure the greatest possible representativeness in the scope of the efficiency and effectiveness of the work of the council itself.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-09-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-878.ana.u154	The remaining amendments and agendas are set out. I call on the rapporteur and the representative of the Government to comment on the amendments and on the agenda.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-09-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-878.ana.u155	Mr President, I am against Amendments 3,200, 3,300, 3,301, 3,301, 3,302, 3,202, 3,203 and 3,204. On the other hand, I would hold the opinion on Amendment 3,205. I am therefore against Amendments 3.303, 3.206, 3.207 and 3.208. I also voted against the G3.100 agenda.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-09-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-878.ana.u156	Senator Di Giorgi, we await your determinations on Amendment 3,205.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-09-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-878.ana.u157	Mr President, the Government agrees with the rapporteur's opinion and is awaiting the opinion on Amendment 3,205.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-09-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-878.ana.u158	I put to the vote Amendment 3,200, tabled by Senator Giovanardi. It's not approved. We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 3,300. Montevecchi (M5S). We call for simultaneous ballots to be carried out by electronic means. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of Amendment 3,300, tabled by Senator Bocchino and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of Amendment 3,301, tabled by Senator Montevecchi and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I would like to refer to the nominal vote by simultaneous ballot of the first part of Amendment 3301, tabled by Senator Petraglia and other senators, up to the words "with the following..." (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). The remaining parts and amendments 3.302 and 3.202 are therefore not included. I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 3,203 tabled by Senator Montevecchi and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 3.204, tabled by Senator Montevecchi and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Senator Di Giorgi, did you have an opinion on Amendment 3,205? DI GIORGI, rapporteur. Mr President, I am in favour. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. The government representative's opinion? Mr CESARO, State Secretary for Cultural Heritage and Activities and Tourism. Mr President, the Government gives its assent to the rapporteur's opinion. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Amendment 3,205 tabled by Senators Ferrara Elena and Lepri. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Amendment 3.303 tabled by Senator Bocchino and other senators, which is essentially identical to Amendment 3,206, tabled by Senator Centinaio and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 3,207.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-09-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-878.ana.u159	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-09-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-878.ana.u160	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-09-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-878.ana.u161	Montevecchi (M5S). Mr President, Amendment 3,207 calls for publicity of the curriculum of those who will be appointed to the Board at least ten days before the appointment. This is because giving such publicity for a reasonable time, before providing for an appointment, means that people who work in that sector or in any case to all other citizens interested in knowing and understanding who will hold positions within the board, and therefore will be called to make a decision-making contribution when there will be to monitor, monitor and propose also on the use of public resources, has given the opportunity to evaluate the curriculum and to understand whether the Minister intends to proceed with appropriate appointments. Even in this case, I think it is the least, because opacity reigns in this country. Although we talk a lot about rules and often we wave the flag of sharing and transparency, there is still a lot to be done. I therefore ask the Minister to take note of the fact that, by expressing an opinion contrary to the amendment, he will be rejected and will go in the direction of opacity, rather than transparency, with many thanks from the citizens. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-09-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-878.ana.u162	I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of Amendment 3,207, tabled by Senator Montevecchi and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Amendment 3,308 tabled by Senator Montevecchi and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of the agenda G3.100, presented by Senator Montevecchi and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by a simultaneous vote on Article 3 in the amended text. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). I shall refer the following to another session of the debate on the draft law.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-09-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-878.ana.u163	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-09-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-878.ana.u164	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-09-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-878.ana.u165	TAVERNA (M5S). Mr President, I would like to address the serious and disturbing statements made by Senator D'Anna on 15 September last in an interview with Radio Cusano Campus. I shall just quote a few figures to remind you of the extent of the absurdity of the statements made by a Member of this Parliament. And I do this intervention to formally ask President Grasso and the incredibly silent President Boldrini to intervene on what Senator D'Anna said in the interview given to Radio Cusano Campus. Before I begin to quote the shameful words spoken, I would like to remind you that there are 6 million victims in Italy. 21 percent of Italian women, 4.5 million, were forced to perform sexual acts and 1.5 million were subjected to the most serious violence. 653,000 women are victims of rape. In the interview Senator D'Anna said: I'm old enough to remind me of wiser women. A woman attacked by a Singhalese at 3:00 in the morning would never have been there once. The woman carries with her the idea of the body, the idea of the prey. If it is located in a single outskirts area, in the middle of the street, it can also be attacked. If only one man walks at 3:00 in the morning, nothing happens to him. If a beautiful girl walks, perhaps dressed in a provocative way and is in certain environments, she exposes herself. Everyone here wants to do everything. I am not a masculinist, but the woman's body is man's object and source of desire. It's an instinct, it'll be primordial, ancestral, whatever you want. Many times a minimum of caution would be necessary. Women have to think that there are people around who can hurt them. Women have a different appeal than men. I could talk about hormones, aggressiveness. Sometimes a type of clothing, a type of context suggests subjects that are a manifestation of availability by the woman. You need some common sense, a little caution, women wouldn't hurt. It is not a manifestation of inferiority. No, the manifestation of inferiority is the way Senator D'Anna speaks about women. [[Applause from the M5S and PD Groups and Senator De Petris]] I repeat that when we go to the House to legislate on animals, we should exclude animals which are present here, which must be regarded as a lower breed in all respects. Senator D'Anna must be ashamed. And so must President Grasso and President Boldrini, who have not spoken to sanction such a shame. [[Applause from the M5S, PD and Senator De Petris Groups]] GIARRUSSO (M5S). Senator D'Anna is a dung! PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator Giarrusso, please. GIARRUSSO (M5S). I'll tell you what, Mr. President. [[Comments from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-09-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-878.ana.u166	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-09-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-878.ana.u167	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-09-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-878.ana.u168	MATTESINI (PD). Mr President, this late sitting speech continues today, here in the Senate, the relay with which, together with many senators and many senators, we remember every woman who is killed at the hands of a man to whom she is or has been linked by a love affair. We will do so as long as it is necessary to remind Parliament and the country of the urgency of combating violence against women. To date 79 women have been mentioned and, since 2 July, the date of our last intervention, 10 other women have been killed. I remind you: on July 31, 24-year-old Alba Chiara Baroni was killed in the province of Trento by her partner, who then committed suicide. Also 31 July in Palmanova, in the province of Udine, Nadia Orlando, twenty-one years old, was strangled by her boyfriend, who then wandered all night with her body fallen on the passenger seat. On August 4 in Ferrara, seventy-seven-year-old Mariella Mangolini was killed with a gunshot by her husband, who also killed her forty-eight-year-old son. On August 17, in Dogaletto di Mira, in the province of Venice, Sabrina Panzonato, fifty-two years old, after being wounded with a stab wound at her side, fled to the street, where she reached her husband and killed her with a blow to the head, then committed suicide. The couple leaves only two children. On August 21, in Bressanone, in the province of Bolzano, Marianna Obrist, thirty-nine years old, was stabbed by her partner while bathing. Laura Pirri, thirty-one years old, died in hospital on 25 March, after eighteen days of agony, for serious burns on the whole body. But it was not a domestic incident: on September 6th the husband was arrested on the charge of murder, for having deliberately set fire to his wife, as the last act of a long series of ill-treatment and violence against him. The ten - year - old son's testimony was decisive. On September 3, in Specchia, in the province of Lecce, Noemi Durini, sixteen years old, was killed by her 17-year-old boyfriend. The boy had been reported to the prosecutor by Noemi's mother for violence against her daughter. There were, in fact, two proceedings, one criminal and one civil, against him. On September 8, the gip of the court of Naples North validated the arrest of the former boyfriend of Alessandra Madonna, twenty-four years old, accused of having caused his death, dragging her by car in the park where he resides, in Mugnano di Napoli. On 9 September in Donoratico, in the province of Cagliari, Joelle Demontis, fifty-eight years old, was stabbed in her home. The woman was still bearing signs of beatings likely suffered in the days before her death. The woman's partner and a 26-year-old girl who lived with them were arrested for the murder. On 15 September, in Casale Monferrato, in the province of Alexandria, Elena Seprodi, forty-eight years old, was stabbed by her ex-husband in her home at the height of a fight. The woman leaves a child. I've always wondered what happens in the head of that man who transforms almost into a cardboard template, against which to hurricane his own murderous fury, the woman with whom he shared passion, love, dreams, projects and maybe he generated children. This question is important, but it is good to remember that we women are people, not simple things to dispose of at will. We have good laws: the Government and Parliament, over time, have done a lot and are doing a lot. I am thinking of strengthening the shelter network, introducing paid leave for working women, including self-employed women, when they have to leave home, for their safety. I'm thinking about gender education in the Good School Act. And we will certainly have to work to do even more on the side of the certainty of punishment. And the hope I make is that Parliament and the Government will strengthen, even in the next law of stability, important resources useful to the fight against violence against women. Similarly, I hope that we will quickly approve the bill on orphans of feminicide. The laws, therefore, are important, but all this is not enough, because the problem is cultural. The problem is those men, more and more numerous, who, not being able to find a new balance within themselves, choose to kill rather than accept the end of a loving relationship. The problem is those men who, for example, face rape and violence, say that women must be more cautious. When a loving relationship ends, the abyss of abandonment can open and one must surely learn to go on the same, although sometimes it can be painful and it may seem impossible. But all this pain can never justify violence and never murderous violence. It is truly dramatic that so many men today are not yet able to understand it or to make up for it, arrogant of themselves the right to tear those who want to get out of that relationship from life. And then the commitment and the battle are certainly the ones I said before, but they must also be culturally, and it is on this level that we must all work together, men and women. From this branch of Parliament, from the Senate, I feel like making a strong appeal to men primarily by saying to them: speak, even autonomously; organise them; say no to violence against women; tell the other men, you who are that part capable of appreciating the difference and being equal and respectful within a relationship, how beautiful it is to be free people; love us for what we are, that is, free people capable of respect even within a loving relationship. Say it, because love is certainly the most powerful energy, but so, as you fall in love in a natural way, it is just as natural and normal for that love to fade, without any winners or winners. Violence is not a variant of love: it is violence and that's it. It is born, developed and nourished within a culture or subculture that still today has as context the social disadvantage for women. For all this, I repeat our appeal to the whole country and to the media: stop justifying, even with the wrong language, the murderers. Stop calling them, as for example in all the television broadcasts in which we talk about Noemi, "the boyfriend". They're not boyfriends or anything. They're murderers. And stop blaming women. [[Applause from the PD and M5S groups]] I say to the country all I have a whisper, but not temporary, of indignation and permanent indignation, because there are really too many women who are killed. It's a massacre we can't accept anymore. [[Applause from the PD, M5S and Aut groups (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT) - PSI-MAIE and Senator Bignami. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-09-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-878.ana.u169	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-09-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-878.ana.u170	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-09-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-878.ana.u171	WAR (Art. 1-MDP). Mr President, Isidoro Ferrante was convicted of the attempted feminicide of Lidia Vivoli, an episode that took place on the night of June 25, 2012 and which left on the body and soul of the Vivoli indelible signs. On October 10th, Isidoro Ferrante will leave the prison in Palermo: despite the heavy accusations of kidnapping and attempted murder, he was sentenced to four years and six months as he took advantage of the extended plea. After five months in prison, he obtained the housekeepers, but he systematically escaped them to follow the Vivoli, who thus became the victim of a nagging stalking, with continuous messages with which the man showed that he always knew where she was and what she was doing; all for two whole years. Ferrante was denounced for the assault of the current partner of Vivoli, with whom the woman had twins of just a year and a half. In November 2014 Ferrante, unaware of the prohibition of approach, again faced Lidia Vivoli, in the street, in broad daylight, trying first an approach and then hit her with a slap, which caused the woman the laceration of the lower lip. Only in November 2015, following the new complaints, Ferrante was led back to prison but - as stated by Vivoli - he did not fail to let her know that he is seriously willing to take revenge on her and perhaps even on his loved ones. In a few days Isidoro Ferrante will be free, with the only prohibition to approach the hamlet of Bagheria in which they live Lidia Vivoli and his new family, but with the concrete possibility that, while he will be free to move, she is forced to lock herself in the house, in his fraction, to stay safe. There is also the risk that the Ferrante does not respect the ban at all, or that he will find other means to get to the Vivoli or his family, as - always according to what the woman claims - he promised. Now Lidia Vivoli asks for help and does so with a loud voice, using all the means of communication, spreading also the images that portray her wounded after that night of June. In recent times - as Senator Mattesini reminded us before - it has emerged on several occasions as the unheard complaints by women who have been subjected to violence have caused unjust and tearing deaths and revealed how short the passage from the threat to the tragic epilogue is. It is necessary to avoid in every way that that of Lidia Vivoli is the next case of feminicide announced. That is why, together with other senators and senators from my Group, I have put a question to see whether the Minister of the Interior is aware of the situation in Lidia Vivoli and whether or not he considers it necessary to intervene urgently with appropriate protection measures and, if so, to protect a woman whose dramatic affair raises more than grounded fears about her integrity and her very existence. I would therefore like to call on Parliament to bear witness to this request. [[Applause from the groups Art.1-MDP, PD and Mixed.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-09-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-878.ana.u172	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-09-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-878.ana.u173	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-09-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-878.ana.u174	ENDRIZZI (M5S). Mr President, if your grandson brought you a report card where in Geschichte he had as a befriedigend vote, would you conjure him up or rebuke him? And if you were given a medical report with Ruckenschmerzen on it, would you be worried or would you sigh for relief? You see, while these assumptions may seem absurd to you, for an Italian father who wrote to us, they are normal. It would be normal if we were talking about an immigrant in Frankfurt, but this happens on Italian territory, in Bolzano, where the school at which the child is enrolled - compulsory school, I would like to clarify - completely written in German. Not only that: the same person also saw the delivery of his son's medical records in German. And, unfortunately, this is not an isolated case, but a widespread problem. We are a German mother tongue school and therefore no Italian with children or with Italian parents. You can speak in Italian if anything with the parents of non-EU children who, being in South Tyrol for a short time, have not had the opportunity to learn German.These are words not collected by an adventurer at the bar, but by a school manager mentioned by the newspaper "Alto Adige." And there is more: in the same interview is also reported an episode happened in Terenten in Pustertal; at the request of the same parents to speak to the children sometimes even in Italian, considering it appropriate, having no other opportunity to learn the language, in response the council member recommended instead not to exaggerate to do so, as if he were recommending not to overdo with drinking. As I recall, last year President Mattarella celebrated the De Gasperi-Gruber agreement in Trento on the equal use of the Italian and German languages in public administrations. The protection of linguistic minorities in Italy rightly defends German-speaking citizens, but in Trentino-Alto Adige there are two linguistic minorities to be protected: Italian and Ladin. We therefore ask that on the Italian territory, from Brenner to Lampedusa, access to information, all the more so if it refers to relevant data such as the school performance of a child or the health conditions of a family member, should always be guaranteed in Italian, without prejudice to the protection of bilingualism, as stated in our Constitution. [[Applause from Senator Donno.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-09-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-878.ana.u175	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-09-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-878.ana.u176	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-09-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-878.ana.u177	MALAN (FI-PdL XVII). Mr President, the absence of the Group of the North Legacy cannot be overshadowed: it was a real absence and their amendments would have fallen in that case. It is a choice that I may not agree with, but the problem that the Members of the North League have raised is real: the fact that, with an urgent measure, all the accounts, and therefore the economic operation of an important political party, voted by the voters and represented in Parliament, have been blocked with a precautionary measure. Let us remember that, when incidents have happened that, from the judicial point of view and with final judgment, have been defined in the same way - that is, a distorted use and contrary to the law of the party's funds, and I refer to the Margherita, of which our former colleague Luigi Lusi was treasurer, who at the time when the fact emerged was however senator of the Democratic Party - there was no such measure. In fact, the courts ruled that, if anything, the party could ask to be reimbursed for what had been badly spent. In this case, we have a seizure for an enormous amount more than the funds that would have been found to be misuse with a total lack of operation by the party. I remember that political parties are provided for in the Constitution and are not private companies. If the Senate forgets to pay bills - which is completely excluded - it blocks the possibility of the Senate to work? Political parties - like it or not - are covered by the Constitution and are a body through which citizens can express themselves. To prevent a party from being able to work for a precautionary measure, which is totally different from the previous one, I find it very serious and I believe it must be said in this House at a time when, in protest, the representatives of that political movement are not present.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-09-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-878.ana.u178	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-09-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-878.ana.u179	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-09-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-878.ana.u180	BONFRISCO (FL (Id-PL, PLI)). Mr President, I have asked for the floor, and I will not abuse it, to associate myself with Mr Endrizzi's bitter words, which once again point to a condition of particular discomfort for Italian ethnic citizens in the territories of South Tyrol. In that reality, a little at a time, the sense of the measure has been lost, and above all that common sense of cohabitation expressed by its populations in recent years, becoming one of the most interesting realities of our country; a reality, however, where it is not possible to tolerate that, starting from a condition of cohabitation, we arrive instead to the daily discrimination of the Italian populations resident in South Tyrol, because it would really be a beautiful paradoxical effect. And, among the many paradoxical situations, the one just mentioned by Senator Malan is really disturbing, because it acts directly on one of the instruments of democracy provided by the Constitution. Even the lives of businesses are marked by dramatic choices, often made by the judiciary, which destroy all their impossibility of recovering the condition and spending capacity, but in this case the salt of democracy is in question. That funding was and is the responsibility of the League under a state law and is public, and those sums cannot be the subject of an abnormal seizure which has nothing to do with the certainty that they should be subject to a financial and administrative review. We have already said so on many occasions, and it is right that we should also remember this in this House. I hope that this situation will soon be resolved in a positive way. Otherwise, it would be the integrity of this House and its effectiveness.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-09-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-878.ana.u181	The motions, questions and questions received by the Presidency will be published in Annex B to today's report.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-09-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-878.ana.u182	The Senate will meet again tomorrow, Wednesday, 20 September, in two public sessions, the first at 9.30 a.m. and the second at 16.30, with the following agenda: (See agenda) The sitting was closed at 20.01 p.m.
