ParlaMint-IT_2017-09-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-884.ana.u1	The sitting was opened at 16.32 a.m. The Minutes shall be read. Mr Frevezzi, Secretary, gave a reading of the Minutes of the afternoon sitting on 21 September. PRESIDENT. - The debate is Since there were no comments, the Minutes were approved.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-09-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-884.ana.u2	The list of senators on leave and absent on assignment received from the Senate, as well as further communications to the Assembly, will be published in Annex B to today's Minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-09-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-884.ana.u3	I would warn you that qualified votes can be taken in the course of today's sitting by electronic means. Therefore, from this moment the period of 20 minutes from the notice provided for in Article 119, paragraph 1, of the Regulation (at 16,34 hours) begins.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-09-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-884.ana.u4	The next item is the debate on draft law No 2227. The report has already been printed and distributed. I would ask the rapporteur whether he intends to supplement it.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-09-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-884.ana.u5	Mr President, I should like briefly to add a few comments to those contained in the text of the report. The bill aims to build the best conditions to celebrate the 150th anniversary of the death of Gioachino Rossini, which took place in Paris on 13 November 1868. I do not think it is necessary to dwell on the reasons behind this vast will, so much is universally known to the whole world Gioachino Rossini, as well as his contribution to the music and culture of our country and the whole world. I just have a few things to say, referring to the more organizational aspects of reading the report linked to the bill. Gioachino Rossini was certainly an excellent figure of the cultural and artistic creativity of Italy; one of the greatest exponents of our opera tradition, still envied in the world today, and factor of Italian attractiveness, along with many other components. Rossini was an original musician, unpredictable, in some respects elusive; a mix of wit and depth, good mood and heroic splashes. He was able to interpret as a few times and a country. He played the first nineteenth century and its changes. After the classicist era, after Haydn's epic, Mozart and Beethoven, there was a question of new emotions, new sensibilities; a request to represent different, new ideas and characters, and Rossini did so, as part of a movement that then led to the full deployment of musical Romanticism in Germany and throughout Europe. He then interpreted the talents of Italy, Italians and their character: fantasy, joy, satire, the desire to sing, and also good feelings, ideals, great passions on great themes. From "Il barbiere di Seville" to "Guglielmo Tell" to "La Cenerentola" to "Otello" to "L'italiana in Algiers" to "Tancredi" you have never forgotten its great sacred achievements. I am thinking of the two absolute summits: "Stabat Mater" and "Petite masse solemnelle": works of maturity and old age. In conclusion, the celebrations will certainly be useful in retracing the extraordinary creative parable of Rossini, but hopefully also to other. I think essentially of an accompaniment, important and positive for the activity of Rossini opera festival of Pesaro, to which goes our applause for having become now one of the most important annual cultural events of our country; and this to try to recover and enhance the documents, archives, places Rossini that still represent the split of a significant period in the life of our territory, and more generally to stimulate a new attention for the Italian opera in all its forms: the comedy, semi-serious, serious, heroic, tragic. Rossini has visited and practiced them all and for this reason he is one of the great in the pantheon of Italian and world music and culture. I would like to conclude with the hope that, alongside the Rossini celebrations, this year, together with the other achievements made in the field of culture, we can put in the carnier other significant achievements, among which I would like to mention the reorganization of the world of conservatives and musical formation, so much awaited today in our country. [[Applause from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-09-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-884.ana.u6	I declare the general discussion open. Senator Fucksia is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-09-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-884.ana.u7	Mr President, on 13 November 2018, one hundred and fifty years have elapsed since the death of Gioachino Rossini. Only after Rossini - his contemporaries said - is it known what the melody is: neoclassical beauty, purity of the vocal sign, rhythmic vitalism, his famous growing. Lover of beauty in all its forms, like good food, the composer Pesaro was able - like few others - to put in music Italianity. In 2019 the figure of Leonardo da Vinci will be celebrated (five hundred years after his death). Leonardo is the icon of the genius of the Italian Renaissance, multifaceted ingenuity, multifaceted talent, curiosity that knows no barriers: painter, sculptor, inventor, engineer, stage designer, anatomist. Leonardo is a unique and inaccessible figure: the embodiment of Italian excellence in every field and in every form. 2020 will be the year of the anniversary of the five hundred years since the death of Raffaello, the young and talented painter of Urbino. Raffaello is the Marche brush that frescoed the Vatican rooms, which with his deep gaze on the soul painted a new man. His living figures leave his contemporaries speechless. Its modernity still surprises us today. In 2021 will fall the seven hundred years after the death of the great poet, the father of our literature, Dante Alighieri: the author of the great and (also for this) Divine Comedy, writer, passionate political philosopher; medieval man but also modern, because she is always alive, in every man and in every age, the search for the role to be occupied in society and history. As well as current are the renewed questions that each of us poses in the face of the mystery that surrounds the universe and pervades our particular microcosm. The language we're talking about is the echo of his words. This is to say that it is very right to celebrate and remember figures that have made our country great and have carried on our culture And, to remind them, national committees are set up composed of leading representatives of Italian and international culture, all figures of proven competence and knowledge. There is a very desirable synergy between public and private actors. It will work to digitize and share the works of these excellent artists. Scholarships have also been announced for young scholars interested in such works. If such measures can only be supported, however, it is spontaneous to question the general view which is the basis of such choices. The provision of funding is not part of an organic, systematic and coherent political and cultural vision. We exported culture of excellence in every field, but today we are considered functional illiterates. The OECD tells us that it puts us first in this bad ranking in Europe. 47 percent of Italians have a mere capacity for elementary analysis and, therefore, are functional and structural illiterate with an approximate understanding. Anthropologists and linguists say that Italy is at the top of this ranking. We are below the minimum level of understanding in reading and listening to a text of medium difficulty. We have, therefore, lost the function and the ability to understand. Often, we don't even realize it. Almost one in five Italians last year never opened a book or a newspaper, never went to the cinema or theater; never went to a concert or even to the stadium and dance. So what do we do in all this? Let's set up a committee and evoke the past. Our cultural heritage is an immense resource, from which we must draw with full hands. It's our wealth, of course. But you know what comes to mind, Mr. President? I am reminded of the saying of Mary Antoinette: if the people are hungry and there is no bread, give them brioches. So I have to ask: are Italians incapable of rebuilding, of culture, of deepening? Is Reality Escaped? And then, instead of giving a structural sign, a commitment to school, reviewing all grades, from elementary to university, we form committees. A question, however, must always accompany every noble initiative, however valuable, and is the following: who pays? Each committee is given about ten million euros (six and a half only to that for Rossini), removed from museums and other sources. And you wonder if it's money well spent. One wonders whether this is the way to raise the country and whether there is a return. Last week, Mr President, we celebrated Publius Ovidus Nasone. And it makes it a little disconcerting that in the newspapers, about Ovid, it is not said that he was born in Sulmona on horseback of 43 before Christ and that he died on the 17th after Christ, but it is said that he was removed from the emperor in the 8th century. And we say it in the parliamentary fora; we have confused ideas and we look not at the essential and even the gloomy. The question then arises as to where we were wrong, where the voids are and whether there is a genuine will to make culture and raise the country or not, instead, an electoral march. Mr President, the world of school is running out; our society is increasingly uncertain and less identity; skills are lacking and fake news triumph over everything, along with reluctant and unrepentant students, to whom we once put donkey ears, while now we are running them to Premier, in a Republic that is not presidential, but that sometimes it is difficult to perceive as a parliamentarians. Let's set up the committees and spend the money. And we wonder how the Ministry of Cultural Heritage and Activities and Tourism spends this money. Lately we spend on the University of Walking, giving money to people to take walks in territories they do not know, although walking is as natural and free as there can be. At the same time, however, we have schools with structural deficiencies, increasingly disoriented young people and a culture that is increasingly struggling to emerge internationally. What would happen if we set up a committee and a promotion for every illustrious name Italy has? And our country has so many. Only for the Marche Region, I think of many popes and various jurists, from Bartolo from Sassoferrato to Alberico Gentili, who built the foundations of international law with the "De iure belli" (De iure belli) as well as Father Matteo Ricci. Then there is Augusto Murri, a doctor: don't we want to remember him? I also remember Edgardo Mannucci, Shevola Mariotti, the author of the vocabulary, and Filippo Bellini. Besides many popes, there are also Beniamino Gigli, Giacomo Leopardi, Gerolamo Genga and even Bramante. We have so many personalities to remember. There is also Mastro Titta, the famous executioner of Rome of Marche origin: don't we want to remember him? If we were to set up a committee and promote events for every illustrious name, I don't know how much we would spend a day. And then, perhaps, there is no need to continue to set up committees. Next week we will celebrate two other personalities, including Mazzini. Perhaps we should invest at the base, in an overall and more structural view. I would not, in fact, that next time, when we talk about Ovid, it would not be placed in the 8th century, or, speaking of Nasone, someone confused him with Pinocchio. This can happen, too. When you look at the detail, you don't look at the substance of things. Therefore, I would like someone to talk about substance and there is a far-sighted return to culture, socialism, tourism and economics extended to the whole country and not a wretched electoral return for a few. Fewer marchettes, more study. [[Applause from Senators Falanga and Giovanardi]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-09-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-884.ana.u8	He's enlisted to speak Senator Liuzzi. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-09-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-884.ana.u9	Mr President, it seems right for this House to discuss this issue together, contrary to a perception of the vulgate which would like Parliament - in this particular case, the Senate - to deal with more serious issues. When we come to judge the seriousness of the arguments, everything is left to such a broad wing that we can never escape the discretion of the judges. The centenary we are talking about is characterized by elements that are not exactly adamantini from the point of view of the organization of the celebratory committees, which then become a plethora of representatives of every order and species. Nevertheless, given the importance of the circumstance, it seems to me that Parliament must give attention and, therefore, establish by law a unique opportunity in the panorama of the promotional activities of Italian culture within the country and abroad. We must not forget, in fact, that there is a value also of an international nature - global I would say - for the reasons that have been exclaimed by the rapporteur, because Rossini was, already for his time, an innovator in music. Compared to what had happened up to a few decades earlier - I am referring, in particular, to the musical expressions focused on the classicity that Mozart had composed - Rossini could represent the homologist of the inventors of jazz music at the beginning of the twentieth century compared to everything that had happened in the nineteenth century, an innovator who has extraordinarily revolutionized both composition and musical performance. It seems to me, therefore, that, undoubtedly, Italy has a primacy and a primacy that the occasion of the 150th anniversary will help to strengthen and strengthen. I believe that Parliament cannot miss the opportunity to give greater identification and identity to the national specific, and it therefore seems to me that the Rossini celebrations fall on this subject and should be rightly emphasized. What do we ask of the bill that we are about to discuss here? Concerts, exhibitions and educational activities are planned. I believe, Mr President, that exhibitions should be traveling, in the sense that they should not stop at places of birth and execution of music or of the Rossinian tradition, but should be taken to museums, art galleries and places of culture, both famous and not at national level. We also ask that the didactic format that will be inculcated and elaborated in schools of every order and grade to celebrate this great Italian be transferable to hundreds of other schools, so that the Rossini feeling lives through the transferability of form. In the same way, we ask that concerts be replicated in all the squares and theatres of Italy, so that this event truly represents a global and choral phenomenon, in which it is strengthened - as I said before - the Italian identity, which is also important, not only as a spirit of patriotic nature, but also to highlight the founding characteristics of an Italianity often questioned - alas - by episodes and destructive behaviors, which make and have made Italy, in some cases, an example not exactly emblematic and positive. Mr President, I believe that on this anniversary we must give the utmost importance and it is good for Parliament to deal with it. Parliament must remove the volcanic circulation from that superficiality of judgment which - alas - also through social networks, is housed in large sections of the population and which often sees young people as both receptors and proposers. There is, in essence, a fundamental ignorance that is conveyed in those circuits, which ultimately goes to approve everything positive and excellent Italy could offer. With these sentiments we consider the measure to be worthy of attention to our examination and it is good for Parliament to delegate to the Government the need to legislate in this regard. [[Applause from Senator Bruni.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-09-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-884.ana.u10	The general debate is closed. I call the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-09-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-884.ana.u11	Mr President, I would just like to point out that the text of the draft law provides for an appropriation of EUR 700,000 and not EUR 6.5 million, as has been said in a speech.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-09-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-884.ana.u12	Moreover, even 150 years have passed since the death of Rossini and not a centenary, if we want to clarify, and there would be several.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-09-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-884.ana.u13	I call the representative of the Government.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-09-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-884.ana.u14	Mr President, I would like to thank the rapporteur, Senator Martini, for his precise remarks on the fact that Rossini should be celebrated and how this represents a vehicle for spreading a musical culture, perhaps in our country often neglected. It is therefore not only a matter of celebrating one of the great and supreme genres among the Italian composers, which has spaced - as well remembered by the rapporteur - between different genres, but also of opening a channel of diffusion of what the music represents in our country. There is a particular need for this and I believe that the provision for our examination must be supported precisely because of the educational value it has in itself.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-09-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-884.ana.u15	I would like to inform you that the Presidency - and I am in distribution - has received the opinions of the 1st and 5th standing Commission on the draft law under consideration and the amendments, which will be published in an annex to today's report.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-09-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-884.ana.u16	Mr President, I call for the amendments tabled in Article 2 to be withdrawn, otherwise the opinion is against them. With regard to Article 3, I also call for all amendments, with the exception of Amendments 3,103 and 3,106, on which the opinion is in favour. With regard to amendment 3,108, I propose a rewording to the authors. In this amendment we are talking about a publication on our institutional website; since it is not obvious that there will be an institutional website - there may be no such thing - I would rephrase it by adding that it gives publicity, as a guarantee of transparency, through the appropriate communication tools.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-09-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-884.ana.u17	I would remind you that on Amendment 3,108, the 5th Commission gave an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution, because these are measures which may involve expenditure which must be provided for. In fact, it is not said that advertising through such spaces is at zero cost. There is therefore a foreclosure of the 5th Commission. , rapporteur. I wasn't aware of that, Mr. President. I therefore withdraw my proposal, expressing the opposite opinion on Amendment 3,108.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-09-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-884.ana.u18	Mr President, the Government's opinion is in line with that of the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-09-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-884.ana.u19	We shall now proceed to the vote on Rule 1. BIGNAMI (Misto-MovX). We call for the vote to be taken by simultaneous ballot by electronic means. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Article 1. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves unanimously. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the vote on Rule 2 and the amendments tabled to it. As the authors do not accept the call for withdrawal, we shall proceed to the vote on Amendment 2,100. BIGNAMI (Misto-MovX). We call for simultaneous ballots to be carried out by electronic means. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 2.100, tabled by Senator Petraglia and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 2.101, tabled by Senator Petraglia and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 2.102, tabled by Senator Petraglia and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Rule 2. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the vote on Rule 3 and the amendments tabled to it. I put Amendment 3,100 to the vote. It's not approved. We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 3.101. CANDIANI (LN-Aut). We call for simultaneous ballots to be carried out by electronic means. [[Senator Santangelo's comments]] PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. A simultaneous vote must be taken. SANTANGELO (M5S). Raise your head next time! PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I always raise my head; I always head up. I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of Amendment 3,101, tabled by Senator Petraglia and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of Amendment 3,102, tabled by Senator Montevecchi and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Amendment 3,103 tabled by Senator Montevecchi and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Amendment 3104 tabled by Senator Petraglia and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of Amendment 3.105, tabled by Senator Petraglia and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of Amendment 3,106, tabled by Senator Montevecchi and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of Amendment 3,107, tabled by Senator Montevecchi and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Let us move on to Amendment 3,108, on which the 5th Commission has expressed an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution. BLUNDO (M5S). We are asking for the vote. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request for a vote is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 3,108.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-09-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-884.ana.u20	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-09-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-884.ana.u21	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-09-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-884.ana.u22	BLUNDO (M5S). Mr President, this is an amendment of common sense, because it requires that the use of these funds, which are intended for the enhancement of great figures who have given glory to our country, be made in a correct, transparent and public way, in order to make the citizens aware that they are actually dealing with the valorization of culture. I am told, however, that the Budget Committee has expressed its opposition to such an important action, when in the draft law on the establishment of the Ovidian Year and on the celebration of the anniversary of the two thousand years since the death of Ovid, approved last week, we have included this kind of opportunity to give clarity to the citizens. I would ask that, however, when there are funds to be allocated, some of those funds should also be given priority in order to ensure the proper use of the remaining part of the funds that are allocated. However, I would ask that it be possible, at least, to turn the amendment into an agenda and I would urge the opinion of the rapporteur and the representative of the Government to do so. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I call on the rapporteur to comment on this.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-09-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-884.ana.u23	Mr President, I would also agree with a reformulation.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-09-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-884.ana.u24	There was a problem of cover, but as an agenda it would be admissible.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-09-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-884.ana.u25	Martini, rapporteur. If the rewording I proposed could be restored on the agenda, it would be more precise. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator Blundo, do you want the rapporteur to repeat the rewording? BLUNDO (M5S). Yes, thank you. Martini, rapporteur. Mr President, the reformulation was very simple. Since the amendment specifically referred to the institutional website and this is not the only instrument, I proposed that the text should be reworded in the sense of advertising, as a guarantee of transparency, through the appropriate communication tools, therefore in more general terms and not only with regard to the website. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator Blundo, do you accept this proposal for reformulation? BLUNDO (M5S). Mr President, if the intention is to give publicity in the possible ways, always with the same principle, I accept the proposal for reformulation. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I call on the Government representative to comment on the agenda.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-09-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-884.ana.u26	Mr President, the Government's opinion is in line with that expressed by the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-09-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-884.ana.u27	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-09-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-884.ana.u28	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-09-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-884.ana.u29	MUSSINI (Mixed). Mr President, I would also like clarification. It seems to me to recall that in the draft law, if it has not been amended, it was already expected that through an extraordinary contribution the committee would carry out its own institutional website. I understand therefore that the web space in order to be able to produce an inexpensive publication of what Senator Blundo asks is already planned. PRESIDENT. - The debate is It seems to me that the wording is quite clear. It remains therefore established that the amendment is transformed into an agenda incorporating the wording proposed and repeatedly presented by the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-09-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-884.ana.u30	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-09-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-884.ana.u31	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-09-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-884.ana.u32	SANTANGELO (M5S). Mr President, this was an amendment and not an agenda.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-09-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-884.ana.u33	It has been turned into an agenda. The debate was about this: it was announced by Senator Blundo in these terms and the rapporteur and the representative of the Government expressed their views on the change to the agenda; otherwise on the amendment the 5th Commission had expressed an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-09-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-884.ana.u34	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-09-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-884.ana.u35	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-09-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-884.ana.u36	BLUNDO (M5S). Mr President, I understand that we are running very fast today. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. No, we're not running. BLUNDO (M5S). The rapporteur, when he spoke, said that he could also be accepted, with the rewording he proposed; he was talking about the amendment. Now, I'd like to understand. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. He asked the rapporteur to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-09-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-884.ana.u37	Mr President, I spoke to explain the rewording before I knew that the 5th Commission had given an opinion that was in breach of Article 81 of the Constitution. At this point, the question of the amendment is closed. When Senator Blundo proposed a change in the agenda, I said that we could recover that wording, but in the context of the agenda, not in the context of the amendment.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-09-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-884.ana.u38	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-09-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-884.ana.u39	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-09-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-884.ana.u40	SANTANGELO (M5S). Mr President, in order to sort things out, I would ask that the agenda be put to the vote by electronic vote. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator Blondo should ask. SANTANGELO (M5S). I'm the delegate of the House, so I'm already pushing him.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-09-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-884.ana.u41	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-09-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-884.ana.u42	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-09-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-884.ana.u43	FUCKSIA (FL (Id-PL, PLI)). Mr President, I accept the amendment or agenda.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-09-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-884.ana.u44	The Presidency takes note of this. I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of the agenda G3.108, tabled by Senator Blundo and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 3.109.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-09-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-884.ana.u45	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-09-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-884.ana.u46	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-09-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-884.ana.u47	SANTANGELO (M5S). Mr President, I would kindly like to ask you for an electronic vote on this amendment and, in accordance with the speed you impose and impose on the House, even on the subsequent ones. So, if you look right and left once, there's Senator Santangelo in the middle who always asks for it on time. Always very kind and courteous, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-09-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-884.ana.u48	Thank you, Senator Santangelo. In the meantime, we're going at a not very fast pace. In addition, Senator Candiani, at the time of his request for electronic voting, evidently referred to the whole of Article 3; at least so we interpreted it. Thank you for your repeated request. I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of Amendment 3.109, tabled by Senator Petraglia and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 3.10 tabled by Senator Petraglia and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). In view of the contrary opinion expressed by the 5th Commission pursuant to Article 81 of the Constitution, amendment 3.111 is impervious. I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by a simultaneous vote on Article 3 in the amended text. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the vote on Rule 4. CANDIANI (LN-Aut). We call for the vote to be taken by simultaneous ballot by electronic means. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Rule 4. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the vote on Rule 5. BIGNAMI (Misto-MovX). We call for the vote to be taken by simultaneous ballot by electronic means. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Rule 5. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B).
ParlaMint-IT_2017-09-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-884.ana.u49	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-09-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-884.ana.u50	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-09-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-884.ana.u51	DAVICO (FL (Id-PL, PLI)). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, on the occasion of the 150th anniversary of his death, the measure before us is intended to celebrate the prestigious figure of Gioachino Rossini. It seemed worthy and acceptable to us, for with it we propose a wide spectrum action to foster the best knowledge, at home and abroad, of the work and figure of the composer Pesaro. It is worth remembering our Rossini, if only to testify to the greatness and thickness of his figure. His musical genius knew how to adapt all the forms of the traditional work to the culture and orientations of the post-revolutionary era, proposing an original relationship of autonomy between music and text, making his work a cultural example, able to innovate musical patterns and introducing characters previously unknown to funny works. The introduction of irony and sarcasm into the rigid eighteenth-century model assured him at the time a triumphal success that is our heritage and that we have a duty to keep alive, so as not to further disperse a cultural heritage that has been entrusted to us by time. The innovative stylistic note has in fact given lustre to our country all over the world and Rossini - described by biographers as hypochondriac, humoral and angry, often prey to deep depression, but also jovial, lover of good food and other beauties - is still considered emblem and synonym of Italianity. These few and modest words, which I spend with admiration to remember the figure of the great master, encourage us to welcome the measure in question, since it provides, for the biennium 2018-2019, a shared collaboration between public and private bodies to carry out numerous educational, editorial, exhibition, congressional, seminar, scientific, cultural and entertainment activities in order to promote in Italy, in Europe and in the world the knowledge of musical, artistic and documentary heritage related to him. In addition, the forecast of the recovery and systematization of the imposing historical, artistic, archival and cultural material concerning Rossini, as well as the commitment to an intervention aimed at the restoration of Rossini's places, also with the aim of promoting tourism, represent an effective measure and a model to be proposed also in other measures. Unfortunately, I must note that, although the heart of the measure is appreciated, the resources allocated to the purpose are still particularly modest: culture, whatever you think, is the root of the tree of our society and needs substances in order to be able to strengthen and feed. What gives us the starting point for a further notation of praise is the forecast of scholarships for the elaboration of essays on the work of Gioachino Rossini to be provided in favour of the students of conservatives and music academies, whose cultural vitality in recent years I have personally taken care of. This is important because the journey towards the knowledge society and the best use of knowledge, even in the economy, necessarily pass through the valorization, sharing and dissemination of the works of our best fellow citizens, who are moreover the most represented, known, cited and taken from history and in the world. The last positive notation I reserve to the prediction of forms of dissemination of the work of the playwright, to be realized through the use of digital technologies. It is obvious that these approaches finally look forward to the future: the present knowledge has taken on a variety of forms so sophisticated and widespread in everyday life, as well as having reached a speed of circulation that only a few decades ago appeared unimaginable. This makes us reasonably hope that the instruments prepared can bring the echo of the work of the great master to the farthest corners of the world, to continue to give lustre to Italy. For all these reasons, colleagues, the Federation of Freedom Group (Idea-Popolo e Libertà, PLI) will not fail to vote in favour of this measure. [[Applause from Senator Comrade.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-09-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-884.ana.u52	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-09-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-884.ana.u53	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-09-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-884.ana.u54	Hundreds of thousands (LN-Aut). Mr President, we believe that a modern state such as our country must be able to look to the future, but at the same time it must be aware that we are who we are because there are those who have arrived before us and have left us that very high cultural level that allows us to live and be the nation that we are. So we should be a great country. Mr President, we welcome initiatives such as these and the one we are going to deal with afterwards. We support the idea that they should be implemented, but we are talking about a measure of EUR 700,000 over two years on total State expenditure of EUR 800 billion. We are at a historic moment when five million Italians are below the poverty line, when there are social and economic problems. We are at a time when there are social and economic problems: we have problems with immigration and we have problems with our young people leaving abroad because they do not find work. We are at a time when Italy is under everyone's eyes. If we go to see the parliamentary acts and the legislative proposals that are firm in the Commissions and have not yet been dealt with we would see that they touch important emergencies. At this moment, Mr President, we are blocking the Senate Chamber with a measure which could be dealt with quietly in the Commission in its deliberations. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group]] Colleagues, I also say this to myself as a Parent Company because we also talked about this at the Conference of Leaders, do we want to bring to the Chamber the measures that our fellow citizens are asking us to take? [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group]] Do we want to bring to the House the measures that are needed to revive this country and improve security? Rossini is fine, Dante is fine and everything you want but with these measures - alas, colleagues - we do not relaunch our country. We will vote in favour of the draft in our examination because it is a measure which cannot be voted against but we ask you, for the next few weeks, to take a minimum of seriousness and bring to the Chamber what really serves to revive Italy. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-09-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-884.ana.u55	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-09-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-884.ana.u56	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-09-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-884.ana.u57	LIUZZI (GAL (DI, GS, MPL, RI)). Mr President, as announced during the general debate, our vote will be in favour. Moreover, I imagine that the whole Assembly is preparing to celebrate worthily this great Italian who still gives to Italy abundant fruits and in particular represents, in terms of sentiment, that Italianity that particularly abroad is perceived in an extremely positive way. For these reasons, President, our vote in favour is also conditional on the need for the Government to commit itself so that all the planned initiatives, also thanks to the extraordinary contribution of 680,000 euros plus 20,000 in 2019, can deploy their positive effects throughout the national territory. The exhibitions must be itinerant, the educational format in the schools must be transferable to hundreds of institutes, the concerts must be replicable in hundreds of Italian squares and theatres and in particular the participation of the Italian communities abroad must be guaranteed, also through the involvement of the Italian cultural institutes in our consulates and embassies, so that the international resonance is transformed in fact and in benefits for the image of Italy abroad. [[Applause from Senator Bruni.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-09-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-884.ana.u58	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-09-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-884.ana.u59	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-09-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-884.ana.u60	Mr Barani (ALA-SCLP). Mr President, of course we will also vote in favour of the measure we are considering. We, unlike others, believe that in the House of a Parliament all laws are equally important and of the same value as in schools all subjects studied - mathematics, English, history, geography and so on - are important and there can be no more important matter. So the Leaders were right to put on the agenda this important arrangement for the celebrations of the 150th anniversary of the death of Gioachino Antonio Rossini. We believe that, in fact, they have done well and that there is little to say about it. With my intervention I would not want to lay shadows on a man that history tells us has been extraordinarily vital and eclectic; its composition flourishes, which has spaced a little everywhere, from works, hymns, to sacred music. He is a modern man, recognized forerunner of the times, who has associated skills and versatility. He was also a man of the world and not only for the many wives he had. In the Commission I did not fail to note that the measure was approved on 21 June last, the day on which the Music Festival is celebrated in Europe and in the world. The Commission on that very day, like an omen, paid tribute to Gioachino Antonio Rossini with the approval of the bill at our examination. We are therefore preparing to approve a measure that will celebrate 2018 as a Rossinian year. Let us not forget that Rossini's eclecticism is perhaps also due to the fact that he was born on February 29, a leap year. It is a measure designed in the context of the promotion of our cultural, historical, artistic and musical heritage, for which Italy is known and prestigious all over the world. The figure of Gioachino Antonio Rossini is celebrated, on the anniversary of the 150th anniversary of his death, enhancing his work. No one escapes - as has already been said - that he died in Paris, but his tomb, as well as in Paris, is located in the Basilica of Santa Croce, in Florence. Compared to his works, who doesn't remember "Guglielmo Tell" or "Il barbiere di Sevilla" (Sevilla barber), from which a film was also made? Who doesn't remember Cinderella? I would like to close by reminding you that Rossini was also a band author, so I would like to mention the double pass per military band. He was also the author of sacred music: if the "Miserere" and the "Tantumergo" are performed daily in all the churches of the world we owe it to him. He was also an artist who, with hymns and choirs, released political messages at that time, as evidenced by the "Hymn of Independence" and the "Chorus for the third centenary of the birth of Tasso": on the one hand the theme of resistance and on the other the homage to Tasso, a man of great culture. This is what makes the idea of the versatility of this man, named Giovacchino Antonio Rossini, like his grandfather Antonio. Perhaps a few people know that he also had a middle name. Having said that, we will vote in favour of the draft law in our examination and we believe that it is as important as any other measure discussed in this House.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-09-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-884.ana.u61	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-09-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-884.ana.u62	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-09-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-884.ana.u63	Mr Gotor (Art.1-MDP). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Senators, representative of the Government, on behalf of Article 1, Democratic and Progressive Movement, I express our consent to the Senate that organizes the celebrations of the 150th anniversary of the death of Gioachino Rossini and that wishes to enhance the work of the great Italian composer of Pesaro origin. We believe it is particularly useful to support educational, editorial and scientific activities related to the Accademia Rossiniana-Rossini opera festival and the Fondazione Rossini, but also the recovery, restoration and reordering of historical, archival, artistic and museum material, together with the restoration of the building and restoration of the Rossini places, including the conservatory. It is all these high-profile objectives that induce us as Group Article 1 - Democratic and progressive movement to support the measure. [[Applause from the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and ……]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-09-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-884.ana.u64	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-09-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-884.ana.u65	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-09-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-884.ana.u66	Conte (AP-CpE-NCD). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the figure and work of Gioachino Rossini have deeply marked the culture and history of the 19th century. In view of the innovations and values of which Gioachino Rossini has been brought, the text under examination of this Assembly intends to take the opportunity of the 150 years since the death of the master, which falls on 13 November 2018, to celebrate his figure and works. The original draft law has undergone an important rewriting during the legislative process, with the collaboration of the entire Commission, which is appreciated for the cooperative spirit and for the unanimity of the consensus with which it dismissed this measure. During the work, therefore, the procedures were simplified, made more transparent the modalities of the formation of the committees promoter and scientific and re-aligned resources compared to other draft laws that, similarly, provide celebrations of other occasions, such as those related to the figure of Ovid as well as Leonardo da Vinci, Raffaello Sanzio and Dante Alighieri. Despite the profound rewriting, the objective of the article has remained almost unchanged as it aims to promote the maximum international diffusion of the work and knowledge related to Gioachino Rossini and his fortune, through projects that present wide and qualified levels of collaboration between institutions, institutions and schools and private institutions, at national and international level, enhancing also individual and autonomous proposals at local level or in individual cities. The aims of the interventions to be carried out in the next two years are to support, also in collaboration with public and private bodies, educational activities (including didactic), editorials, exhibitions, congresses, seminars, scientific, cultural and entertainment, including those of the Rossini Academy Rossini opera festival and Fondazione Rossini, aimed at promoting knowledge in Italy and Europe, also through the use of digital technologies, of musical, artistic and documentary heritage related to the figure and work of Gioachino Rossini, also in relation to the recognitions achieved at national and international level. We will also try to promote the recovery, restoration and reorganization of historical, artistic, archival, museum and cultural material concerning the figure of the master, as well as the restoration of the building and the conservative restoration of the Rossini places - including the conservatory - located in the province of Pesaro and Urbino, also with the aim of tourist promotion. These initiatives are allocated at least 20% of the special contribution. Instead, the promotion of scientific research in the field of Rossini studies will also be supported through the establishment of scholarships for the elaboration of essays on the work of Gioachino Rossini, in favour of the students of conservatives and musical academies. A Promoter Committee shall be set up to follow up the above-mentioned objectives. Within the same is constituted a scientific committee, composed of no more than ten persons of clear fame and experts of the life and works of the composer, with the task of formulating the guidelines for the initiatives above. The extraordinary contribution allocated to the organization of the celebratory activities is quantified in 700,000 euros for the biennium 2018-2019. Rossini belongs not only to our country but to the whole world. It is important that it is known even better: the celebration of the 150 years after death will be a great opportunity to spread culture and there will be a solid structure behind which all initiatives will rest. Rossini is the ambassador of Pesaro and Italy in the world. Therefore, the challenge will be to combine the high quality to the maximum diffusion of the activities touching the various Rossini cities: in addition to Pesaro, also Lugo di Romagna, Naples, Venice and Bologna, up to Vienna and Paris. Rossini will be told through opera and music, cinema and some contamination with the contemporary. It is on occasions like these that music, the territory and people come together and Italy is able to tell itself: the vote of the Alternative Popular Group will be convinced in favor of the measure. [[Applause from the AP-CpE-NCD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-09-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-884.ana.u67	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-09-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-884.ana.u68	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-09-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-884.ana.u69	BOCCHINO (Misto-SI-SEL). Mr President, we Senators of the Italian Left believe that it is right to honour the memory of Gioachino Rossini in the parliamentary classrooms. Playing a game of priority among interventions, as Senator Centinario did, is a little dangerous. If, in fact, one indulges in this reasoning and leads him to the extreme consequences, one can end up in a situation where the measures concerning culture and aspects such as the memory of the illustrious characters are relegated to increasingly marginal roles. Instead, we think that with culture we eat and that with culture the territories of our country can start again and that, indeed, they must start again. So, basically, we must not lack in-depth discussions on this issue, just as we must support this initiative. Then, of course, we will be able to discuss whether this is a good or bad goal, but, however, these discussions must always be very much in Parliament's classrooms, in the Commission and in this House. As for the specific, this is a very similar measure to what we analysed last week on Ovid, bill No 2304. On that occasion, we had the opportunity not to miss our support and we will also do so with regard to the measure on Gioachino Rossini. We have, however, highlighted some critical issues. As far as financing is concerned, there is something new about this measure. They no longer insist on a tour match (as in the provision on Ovid) pertaining to the library archives sector in this case - ahinoi - the funding is related to a fund, also of MIBACT. So, once again a tour game that concerns the operating costs of the museums. Among other things, this fund is particularly annoying because it is a fund that, at the moment, has ten million euros and the measure on Rossini insists on it for about 700,000 euros: therefore, with a fraction not very small and not negligible. For this reason, we wanted to give a signal, as Senators of the Italian Left, and, when voting on the amendments, we abstained on the cover article, as we abstained on the committee article. This committee, in fact, also presents some critical issues, which we have had occasion to emphasize during the discussion of the provision on Ovid. It is a rather summit committee, chaired by the President of the Council, where there is a confusion of roles between the propositive and consultative bodies and the executive body. In addition, there is the big issue of Law No 420 of 1997 which already regulates centenarians. I will speak more widely on this subject when we discuss the measure on the centenaries of Leonardo, Dante and Raffaello. We are voting in favour of this measure, partly because it is the celebration of a 150-year anniversary. It is therefore not a "round" anniversary like those provided for in Law No. 420 of 1997 and, therefore, for this reason we believe that it is right to have a specific measure on Rossini. For all these reasons, we are voting in favour of the measure. [[Applause from the Misso-SI-SEL Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-09-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-884.ana.u70	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-09-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-884.ana.u71	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-09-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-884.ana.u72	SERRA (M5S). Mr President, here we want to celebrate poets, musicians and philosophers with draft laws that establish microfinance, in order to give a fake lustre, in a mediocre war of relics that transforms, in real everyday life, into an absence of project and overall vision because there is no forward-looking strategy that develops a wide-ranging national commitment. Without a cultural project that develops interest and research, events on memory, as well as plates, are useless. It's like creating a playground for children without games and, above all, without park. Yes, because our parks and schools still remain places where poets, musicians, the authors who gave lustre to our culture are relegated to dusty stanzoni, at best. We do not question the centrality of the figures, such as that of Rossini, who want to celebrate, but we want to reiterate that the celebrations themselves, if not accompanied by study, knowledge and interest, will remain simple happenings associated with images of faces or melodies and, in the case of Rossini, perhaps will serve the creation of new apps, that of artificial memories. What is missing - I use a long-term term - is a public service policy for the citizen and proves that this is yet another cultural measure in which no additional resources are used. The answer is always the same: there is no money. But what results do we hope to achieve without investing in culture and research? Let's not forget that Italy that celebrates its excellence is the country in which the list of cancellations of cultural institutions has been extending for years and where the presence of uninhabited theatres, stable orchestras become precarious, closed cinemas, suppressed festivals, neglected archaeological areas, monuments and cultural areas that pay in a general and true degradation does nothing but convince us that bills such as the one under consideration do not serve. These celebrations should be an opportunity to definitely redefine priorities, draw a line and perspectives of development, understand what is really essential and what is not, design programs in synergy with the artistic and classical institutes and implement the educational and formative path so that our illustrious poets, writers, philosophers and musicians relive in the mind and works of our young people and are not relegated to pure marketing, at best, or to self-celebration evenings that leave no sign, if not - in fact - of shady relics. The 5 Star Movement has prepared a government program where culture and education are the pillars of the society of the future, in which we imagine citizens free to know and understand. On the bill under consideration the 5 Star Movement will abstain. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-09-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-884.ana.u73	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-09-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-884.ana.u74	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-09-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-884.ana.u75	BUEMI (Aut (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT)-PSI-MAIE). Mr President, I am of course voting in favour of this measure by my Group, which tends to recall one of the great Italians who has made a large contribution to Italian lyrics and to promote the culture of our country all over the world. However, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I cannot fail to ask a question. Does it make sense that we are dealing with these issues with a specific bill, which obviously has its problems and procedural costs and which certainly involves a commitment to Parliament, which should instead be much more focused on dealing with the problems of everyday life and the delays in the implementation of our Constitution in the area of citizens' rights and other matters? I ask this question because I think we should try to find a way out. Personally, I believe that the Government can act as a means of representing the country's will to remember these great characters, perhaps reducing the content of the delegations to the Government on more important issues (which should have their own, specific and broad headquarters in the parliamentary debate) and entrusting the Executive with an action to evaluate and link these issues, which, among other things, carries out in a timely manner, through the Ministries. In this way, Parliament would be involved in dealing with matters of greater importance. In any case, since the state of the art and procedure is this today, we can only vote in favour. [[Applause from Senator Orellana.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-09-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-884.ana.u76	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-09-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-884.ana.u77	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-09-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-884.ana.u78	GIRO (FI-PdL XVII). Mr President, Forza Italia will vote in favour of this measure. Of course, we also have some concerns. I share the intervention of Senator Centinario, because often and willingly the culture appears in the parliamentary classrooms as a mere filling to lengthen the times and not to address urgent problems that this country, the Government and the Parliament have the right-duty to face and resolve. Culture is an emergency, but certainly it is not addressed with buffer measures, tips and sporadic and poorly coordinated initiatives. What am I supposed to say about this bill? That a national year is not denied to anyone, since in 2018 we will celebrate the European Year of Cultural Heritage, which no one is talking about and for which substantial funds are provided by the European Commission. Well, I have not yet seen a rag of program by the Ministry to deal in a decent way (since we are in Italy and in this country we have, according to statistics, a large part of the cultural, historical, artistic, architectural, monumental landscape and archaeological heritage) such celebration. I know nothing about the strategies put in place by the Ministry of Cultural Heritage for this anniversary. In 2018, moreover, Minister Franceschini announced, after the national year of walks and after the national year of villages, the national year of food: well, another national year that will be celebrated in 2018. Today, with this measure, the Ministry of Cultural Heritage and Activities and Tourism - because, it is well remembered, everything is in the hands of Minister Franceschini, who will appoint the members of the promoter committee, who in turn will appoint the members of the scientific committee; nothing about this, we did it too when we were in the government - announced the Rossini national year. In 2018, therefore, we will have many years to celebrate, with so many resources made available; I repeat, as far as the European Year of Cultural Heritage is concerned, these are important European resources, which I hope Italy uses, because it has a vast cultural heritage. But I do not know anything; perhaps you know something, perhaps President Marcucci knows more than I do, but personally I do not know anything at all. Senator Centinario is right about these 700,000 euros to have some concern and his intervention cannot be debilitated by the intervention of the zotic: it is not so, because the culture dealt with in this way is the culture of the zotic. He is right, therefore, Senator Centinario to ask how these 700,000 euros will be spent, which are a drop of 800 billion public spending; who decides the criteria? It decides them, of course, by a decree, the Ministry, without going to the Commission. All right, so have we, but I wouldn't want these 700,000 euros - which are not rude - to be simply given to Rossini opera festivals, the Rossini Foundation and the Rossini Academy, which already take money from the state, the FUS, the famous unique fund for the show. We try to use these 700,000 euros to implement and increase the initiatives praisedly promoted by the Accademia Rossiniana, Rossini opera festival, Fondazione Rossini; therefore, not to buffer funny and past debts, management pies that belong to the past, but to do concrete things with schools and academies. One final remark. In the text before us there is a line, in paragraph (d) of Article 2, dedicated to Europe: however, these are measures of a non-national, but provincial, municipal nature. We talk about Pesaro and Urbino: very well, Rossini was born and lived in those places, but we are not talking about Europe, about the world. Rossini is famous in the world and is represented more in Japan than in Italy. So let us try, with these measures, that I too have followed (so I take some responsibility for them), to give an international dimension to these initiatives. I might have liked some references to the international academic world, UNESCO and the institutions that are responsible for promoting the international cultural and musical heritage. There is absolutely nothing: when it comes to spreading in Europe and around the world, they are words to the wind. I hope - and I conclude - that this measure is really useful, as Senator Liuzzi said, to promote the cultural heritage of this immense composer and that the results are certified, visible, tangible; that young people can approach this extraordinary character, whose music is very popular and harmonic, felt close and appreciated also by social strata not accustomed to very sophisticated cultural operations. So let us try to make good use of the money that is being allocated. I therefore declare the vote in favour of Forza Italia. [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-09-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-884.ana.u79	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-09-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-884.ana.u80	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-09-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-884.ana.u81	FABBRI (PD). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the draft law before us responds to the need, but also to the opportunity, to celebrate the 150th anniversary of the death of an illustrious Italian in our country and considered internationally, as has been mentioned several times, a master of musical art without competitors. One hundred and fifty years after the disappearance of Gioachino Rossini are a unique national occasion and represent for the Marche Region, so dramatically marked by the earthquake, also a reason for relaunching tourism and art. For my city, Pesaro, who gave birth to Rossini on February 29, 1792, is the crown of an ancient journey that has deep roots in music. The importance of the anniversary required a special legislative intervention in order to guarantee a suitable framework for the many projects and initiatives that will be realized to remember a figure who knew how to renew the Italian musical theatre and contributed widely to the renewal of the European one, marking the future of the opera and of the whole musical culture. His compositions such as "Il barbiere di Sevilla", "La gazza ladra", "La Cenerentola", "Semiramide" and the "Guglielmo Tell" - only to limit the quotations - are collective patrimony still today, and will be tomorrow, immortal and ever-present, in their eternally lasting beauty. That dynamic style, irresistible in its warm and passionate tone, sometimes irreverent and mocking, capable of becoming a costume satire, which characterizes the first phase of production, managed to open the doors of the theatre even to the most popular bands, before turning to the sacred, almost a retreat of the artist's soul in the intimacy of the spirit, with the "Stabat Mater" composed between 1832 and 1839, in the Parisian countryside of Passy, where the Swan lived a long isolation, but also a highly fruitful phase, writing countless sonatas, piano compositions, chamber music pieces, before his death, occurred on 13 November 1868 in Paris. Complex personality, absolute genius of music, Rossini represents the face of Italy in the world. Appreciated, esteemed and envied. An intense career, a great musical production, always marked by an innovative role with which contemporary artists were obliged to confront and even clash. From funny opera to melodrama, Rossini was able to devote himself in equal measure to both genres, reworking the style of the eighteenth century and marking the nineteenth century, succeeding in fecundating with its innovative capacity even the following time. Dozens of musical operas without gender boundaries, because it was able to range from farce to comedy, from tragedy to serious and semi-serious opera. For this reason we have, in the face of this anniversary, an almost moral duty: to celebrate it at its best, recognizing to our country the artistic cultural greatness of which, often, perhaps we are not even fully aware. Celebrate Rossini, to celebrate us, to give value to our community to the master so bound. 2018, as established by the bill today to the attention of this Assembly, is indicated as the Rossini year and will see the winding of the many appointments scheduled until 2019. Exhibitions, seminars, lessons, shows - all dedicated to the Swan of Pesaro - can characterize, thanks to the collaboration of public and private bodies, the cultural life of our country, the Marche Region, the city of Pesaro. The Rossini Academy operates festivals together with the Fondazione Rossini will give their valuable contribution, as they have been doing for years, in order to promote the great art of Rossini in Italy and in the world. Next to the events, it will be possible to realize the recovery, restoration and reordering of all the historical, artistic, archival and museum material concerning the figure of Rossini, but also of the places that, in the province of Pesaro and Urbino, were dear to him, especially the conservatory. In his will Gioachino Rossini appointed the Municipality of Pesaro as the heir of his property, with the aim of founding and equipping that city with a musical high school. A central role, as the idea of a culture understood as the driving force of the formation proper to the younger generations, will be played by the students of the academies and conservatives. The Committee which this draft law establishes - chaired by the President of the Council of Ministers - will be responsible for identifying the ten figures who will sit on the Scientific Committee. It will be written - I am sure - a beautiful cultural page that the country can be proud of. Finally, allow me to express my sincere and due thanks to the authoritative members of the committee promoting the Rossini celebrations: the president emeritus of the Republic Giorgio Napolitano; Dr Gianni Letta, the president of RAI Monica Maggioni; a heartfelt thanks goes also to the colleague, president of the Committee on Culture, Andrea Marcucci and to the rapporteur, colleague Claudio Martini. Of course, thanks come to this Assembly also from the President of the Marche Region and the mayor of Pesaro Matteo Ricci. I also thank, but not least, the Minister of Culture Dario Franceschini, in particular for the support given to this bill that is part of the deep investment and the great attention paid to the world of art, music and culture by this Government. [[Applause from the PD and FI-PdL XVII groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-09-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-884.ana.u82	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-09-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-884.ana.u83	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-09-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-884.ana.u84	SANTANGELO (M5S). We would like to ask that the vote be taken simultaneously by electronic means.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-09-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-884.ana.u85	I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of the bill as a whole in the amended text. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B).
ParlaMint-IT_2017-09-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-884.ana.u86	The next item is the debate on draft law Nos. 2810, already approved by the Chamber of Deputies, and 2238. The rapporteur, Senator Ferrara Elena, requested authorisation to carry out the oral report. No comments were made and the request was accepted. I therefore call the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-09-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-884.ana.u87	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, undersecretary Borletti Buitoni, we are devoting the week to the celebrations: we started with Ovid; we have just approved the measure on Rossini and at this moment we are dealing with another draft government initiative law for the celebration of the seven hundred years since the death of Dante and the five hundred years since the death of Leonardo and Raffaello. Minister Franceschini, in agreement with the Minister of Education Faithful and the Minister of Economics Padoan, presented this bill. It was adopted at first reading in the House on 3 May with two substantive amendments, to which I will return later. It was assigned to the 7th Senate Commission, in the referent where it was discussed jointly with the bill No 2238, at the first signature of Senator Idem, whose absorption was proposed. The Commission unanimously approved it on 2 August and confirmed the text received from the House. So, the times were very short. It would probably have been possible to ask for a deliberative seat, if this could have been useful; it is a pity that no group has asked for it and that we are therefore discussing it in this House. It must be pointed out that there is a law, No 420 of 1997, which regulates national celebratory committees and national editions, but for two reasons this intervention was necessary. First of all, the capacity of the chapter is never so substantial as to be able to respond to important operations such as those we are facing; secondly, for these three characters, whose cultural relevance and historical, literary, artistic and scientific level do not need to be explicit, truly representing the substance of our literary history (I refer to the great poet) and the Renaissance - there is the need expressed within this norm, to work in a wider way on the national territory and not with a programming that can at the same time coordinate these three great events, which take place in 2019 with regard to Leonardo, in 2020 with regard to Raphael and in 2021 with regard to Dante. For the 750th anniversary of the birth of Dante, the National Committee for Celebrations had already contributed with a funding in two years (2015 and 2016) of about 100,000 euros for both years. Also recently national laws have been passed that can be referred to the celebration of centenaries: I refer to the law n. 206 of 2012 for Giuseppe Verdi and the law n. 63 of 2014 for Alberto Burri. It is true that the national committee exists and that that chapter does not have sufficient capacity, but the work of these three committees that are set up, useful for the complexity of the planning widespread on the national territory and not, requires us to make a specific reasoning for this operation. These three committees will collaborate with each other and with the historical-scientific committee provided for by Law No 420 for anniversaries of national interest, in order to disseminate and enhance a unique and universal cultural heritage, overcoming possible fragmentations: therefore there is also an optimization of the work. They will work towards the realization of a path aimed at the creation of a rich and heterogeneous cultural offer in terms of training, research, dissemination, knowledge of the works of artists, tourist enhancement of the places linked to them and development of the competences of students in the field of cultural heritage. To this end, there is also a directing booth consisting of a representative of the Presidency of the Council of Ministers, a representative of the Ministry of Education, University and Research and a representative of the Ministry of Cultural Heritage and Activities and Tourism. The planned funding, which totals 3.45 million euros, of which 450,000 euros insist on this year's state budget and one million for 2018, 2019 and 2020 (therefore coated in four years) will be devoted to the realization of scientific research projects, publication of new materials, organization of conferences, seminars, exhibitions and theatrical performances, public readings and events to be carried out in the main cities and places of life and the works of the three great artists remembered, with the utmost attention, as we said, to the coordination with universities, with institutes and schools of every order and grade. A particular agenda has been approved by the 7th Commission to respond to a survey of the 1st Commission regarding the composition of the committees, formed by fifteen subjects chosen on the basis of specific competences; and the Ministry of Cultural Heritage and Activities can integrate this composition - it has been specified - always with subjects belonging to the categories envisaged. There is one particular point on which I would like to focus (then, of course, we can refer to the report, to which all my colleagues will certainly have already drawn their information). I refer to Article 6, which was introduced during the examination in the House. I said that there were basically two amendments to the text of government initiative: one concerns the presence of the State-Regions Conference within the committee, which was rightly accepted by the government, while the other is Article 6, which aims to simplify and rationalise procedures for declaring a national monument which, in any case, over time, even recently, has not been reduced. See for example the recognition as national monuments of the Palladian Basilica in 2014 and the Gramsci Museum House in Ghilarza (several decrees of the President of the Republic, adopted on proposal of the Ministry of Cultural Heritage and Activities and Tourism), highlighting also the use of instruments of various normative rank. What has happened in recent years is that, in the absence of specific legislation (even within the code of cultural goods, which refers to declarations of cultural interest, but not of national monument), there has been a need for a rule that would respond to this need for a lack of legislation. Therefore, in order to overcome the heterogeneity of the regulatory solutions adopted, Article 6 brings back the declaration of national monument to one of the types of cultural goods provided for by the code, in particular through the modification of Article 10 (3) (d) of the code of cultural goods, adding to it a period: If things are also of witness value or express an identity or civic connection of exceptional distinctive significance, the measure referred to in Article 13 may include, even at the request of one or more municipalities or of the region, the declaration of national monument. I believe that I have summarized the content of this bill a little and I thank you for listening. [[Applause from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-09-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-884.ana.u88	I declare the general discussion open. Senator Cantini is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-09-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-884.ana.u89	Mr President, I add nothing to what the rapporteur has said but a few words about Leonardo. Leonardo di ser Piero da Vinci was a painter, sculptor, inventor, engineer, military, set designer, anatomist, thinker, man of science; a character with a universally recognized talent, who more than any other has been able to embody the Renaissance era. Leonardo is the icon of the Italian Renaissance, a 360 degree genius, who has left us as a legacy masterpieces in all the fields in which he has endeavoured. Just remember the Toy or flying machines, not to forget the scientific discoveries (such as plant growth rings) or the anatomical studies on the human body. Because of its genius, it is still difficult to define whether it is an artist or a scientist, but it is undoubtedly one of the greatest genes that humanity has ever known. Leonardo, as well as representing the genius, also represents in the world the Municipality of Vinci and that part of the territory (the Empolese Valdelsa, in the province of Florence) of which Vinci is part, capable of guarding over the years and above all of enhancing the heritage left to us by this great character. Such a strong union, that between Leonardo and Vinci, that it is almost impossible not to pronounce them together. Over the years, this important part of the Province of Florence and the Municipality have been able, through a tourist offer integrated with the territory, to preserve and enhance the immense heritage that Leonardo has left us, offering us all the opportunity to appreciate it still today; a complete tourist-museum offer that, starting from the birthplace of Leonardo, passing through the Leonardo Museum, where through a complete exhibition it is possible to make a real journey to discover history, science and technology and ending then with the Leonardo Library, gives us the opportunity to know and appreciate the genius win in its entirety. This new and complete tourist offer is the result of a work done over the years by the local authorities, which has allowed the territory to preserve the artistic heritage, to increase tourist presences and to generate an important economic induced for the whole area; a sustainable economic induced, able to create new forms of employment, training and development. Those who have visited Leonardo's birthplace will have been able to see how the beauty and greatness of Leonardo's works and discoveries are one with the landscape, with the gentle hills cultivated with olive trees of Vinci. These are just these virtuous examples that allow us to be increasingly aware of the opportunities offered by our cultural heritage and we must be equally aware that to enhance it and make it usable today we need planning, skills and innovation. Today, in order to promote and spread Italian culture we cannot be content to attract tourists only in cities like Rome and Florence or to fascinate them with works of exceptional beauty such as "L'ultima cena" by Leonardo da Vinci; we need a widespread and interconnected cultural offer, capable of enhancing the complexity of the Italian artistic heritage. In order to do this, local authorities at all levels must be convinced that tourism can become a strategic asset of socio-economic development, a driver of wealth and employment. Only in this way will we be able to return to prominence among the nations capable of attracting, thanks to the richness of its heritage, the great numbers of cultural tourism. For this reason I think that approving today the measure under discussion allows us to give a fair recognition to the celebrations for the five hundred years since the death of Leonardo da Vinci, but also and no less to support the local administrations engaged for years in the valorization of the artistic and cultural heritage of this great Italian. [[Applause from the PD Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-09-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-884.ana.u90	He's enlisted to speak Senator Liuzzi. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-09-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-884.ana.u91	Mr President, I should like to say a few words about the measure under discussion. Also in this case some problems arise, already highlighted in the course of the discussion of the previous provision, regarding the need to contest the right celebration and the call of the national community towards these "monsters" - I must say the term - of art, literature, in general of Italian culture in the world, with the impossibility of allocating sums that go beyond what is due. (18.14) (Liuzzi followed). We have some concerns about this, but from this point of view we hope that there will be discretion on the part of the State, and therefore of the Government that will have to ensure that the sums allocated are included in its budget, and of those who will receive this funding to make the right use of it, which is to get the most out of it. These celebrations certainly cannot pass as one of the many celebrations. Therefore, also through the funds allocated, a contribution is made not only from the aesthetic point of view, but also of the contents; that is, to be financed and carried out works that leave a sign, a trace both in the history of the local communities in which they will be realized, and at the level of the national community, which instead must take full advantage of these celebrations. Therefore I think it is equally important to underline the considerable value of the provisions contained in Article 6 of this draft law, that is those inherent in the possibility for communities and local authorities and for the Regions, to identify and therefore direct to the attention of the Ministry a series of excellences and architectural, historical and artistic emergencies that cover the characteristics of national monument, that are emblematic, paradigmatic of Italian culture and that can be given such recognition also for the promotional purposes and the tourist use. This seems to me to be the right context for overcoming the enormous difficulties that we have had in the 7th Commission - which has dealt with them on several occasions - when, by local authorities or by public and private associations, promotional initiatives were made to ensure that a cultural asset is recognised by the State as a national monument. Through this bill it seems to me that we want to use all the value of the law in order to allow the local communities to propose and possibly also to have this further facilitation. We are gathering the results of a series of elaborations and debates held in our election committee, namely the 7th, and this is appropriate. Hence the hope that everything that will be done in certain places (from a topical point of view) can be replicated throughout the nation. We are talking, in fact, about three great personalities who have linked their history and their work to the greatness of the nation. It is therefore right that they be recognized as a monument and as a universal Italian heritage, both in Italy and in the world. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. She's registered to speak Senator Idem. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-09-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-884.ana.u92	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, on the resumption of parliamentary work, as colleagues from the League say, it is good to stress the importance of the timetable in the Chamber of the provision for the celebrations of Dante, Raffaello and Leonardo who, adding to the reform of the discipline of live entertainment and the bill for the celebration of the two thousand years after the death of Ovid, shows the keen attention and centrality given by the legislator, by us, to the themes of culture. The establishment of national committees to celebrate those who represent the expression of the best Italian culture, aims to constitute a path of national and international valorization. It is the Italian cultural tradition that can find, with the provisions of this provision, a propositional input of substance on the occasion of the celebrations. Each committee will have the task of drawing up an appropriate cultural programme - this has already been very well described by the rapporteur - relating to the work and places linked to the figures of the three artists through integration and action with the field of school education, high artistic, musical and coreautic training, university and research. This is an indispensable factor in achieving adequately the objectives set, namely the dissemination and dissemination of the knowledge of life and the work of three characters that are emblematic in the world of our artistic, cultural and intellectual heritage. I believe, from a logistical point of view, that it will be essential to ensure interaction and collaboration with local and regional authorities, both in the elaboration of the general program of celebration, and in the promotion of activities to be carried out, so that we can offer the initiatives the right synergies with the territories that historically and culturally are linked to the life and works of Raffaello, Leonardo and Dante. The directing booth, established at the Ministry of Cultural Heritage and Activities and Tourism, will therefore have a role of fundamental coordination between the committees established in Rome, with a view to an offer that is not fragmented or uncoordinated, and the local realities in which, in the first place, will take place the celebratory expressions, which are also a continuation of the initiatives that are organized in these cities, in Ravenna in particular, to remember the great characters who have been linked to these territories. One of the objectives of the measure is to promote international initiatives that will contribute to an ever greater and deeper understanding of our culture, which, starting from its roots, brings us back to our present. The celebratory occasion, therefore, looks abroad, to the entire Italian territory and to its territorial articulations in a tripartite and unitary perspective together. It is therefore essential, also in order to give an adequate international dimension to all events, to ensure the right space for technological innovation for the dissemination and exposure of what will be achieved. With this in mind, technology will be able to provide us with a bag of information and news that transcends the natural intellectual abilities. In the cultural field, on the other hand, it is essential to exalt the perspective of looking beyond to enhance the artistic, scientific or cultural qualities of our young people, who, starting from the themes proposed and the works of Dante, Raphael and Leonardo, can find ideas for reflection and comparison also on our current condition. So may I finally have a brief digression on Dante, whose remains are preserved in my city, Ravenna. Almost seven centuries after the death of the great Florentine poet, occurred in 1321, Italian students continue to confront the many suggestions offered by the Divine Comedy, metaphor of the personal journey that man, then like today, finds to complete, and that, starting from the dark forest of sin, can lead, through redemption, to salvation. We are talking about the ever-present theme of the journey that man makes, at the border between personal needs and impulses, and the requests that the community makes towards him, which translate into conventions of coexistence, object of retractions along the course of our cultural history. It is no coincidence, in fact, that Dante's work, with its themes, which have universal value in the process of identifying people, is translated into almost all the languages of the world. It therefore seems essential that the anniversary of the eighteenth anniversary of the death of the great poet can constitute a fertile ground of debate and encounter, aimed at reaffirming the unbreakable role played by Dante Alighieri, both in the definition of Italian literary specificity and in the construction of an imaginary that has fascinated the cultures of the whole world. To revive Dante in his cities, Florence, Verona and Ravenna, who each represented, for their part, the unbreakable frame within which the life and works of the greatest Italian poet took shape and substance, as well as to deepen the themes and contents of an eternal poetic message, in the wake of the arrangement just proposed, can allow to find a new answer also to the questions that invest, in an increasingly pressing way, our society. This is what makes the encounter of our country and our community urgent with the figure of Dante Alighieri, with his works and his lively creativity. The meeting with Dante, on the other hand, in the case of Ravenna, represents the very soul of the city. The city of Ravenna, although it has hosted Dante only in the last years of his life, really identifies with this poet and has long celebrated the anniversaries dedicated to the poet in a climate always enveloping and euphoric. The festival of events "Ravenna" for Dante, to give some examples, which gathers about seventy appointments over three months, is currently being held and involves a succession of readings, translations, didactic meetings, itineraries and celebration processions, demonstrating the continuous vitality of the Dante initiatives in my city, Ravenna. Also the International Dante Congress, inaugurated this year, which will take place every two years until 2021, summarizes the passion and will of the municipal institutions in assigning to the city of Ravenna a leading role in Dante's studies. The objective of the bill, signed by seventy-two senators from different political groups, which I had presented in February 2016 and which provided for an extraordinary contribution for the promotion and the carrying out of initiatives on the occasion of the seventh centenary since the death of Dante Alighieri, while starting from a decentralised perspective, was essentially the same objective of the Government's proposal, that is to strengthen those celebratory events that are a fundamental tool for the conservation and dissemination of Dante's literary heritage of inestimable value. This is the spirit that animates the ongoing initiatives in Ravenna and that must involve the path that separates us until 2021, a time that, thanks to this measure, represents a great opportunity to restore vitality to the humanistic, cultural and intellectual fabric of our society. I therefore believe that the measure we are examining is very important and I welcome it. [[Applause from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-09-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-884.ana.u93	The general debate is closed. I call the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-09-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-884.ana.u94	Madam President, more than a reply, my thanks are due to the way in which the debate took place in this House, as well as in the Commission, where unanimous approval was reached. I hope that the speeches under discussion in general will promise well and I thank my fellow Members again for their attention and contributions.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-09-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-884.ana.u95	The representative of the Government does not intend to intervene in the reply. I would like to inform you that the Presidency - and I am in distribution - has received the opinions of the 1st and 5th standing Commission on the draft law under consideration and the amendments, which will be published in an annex to today's report. We shall proceed to the examination of Article 1, on which an amendment and an agenda have been tabled, which, in the absence of the proposer, I declare to have fallen. We shall now proceed to the vote on Rule 1. CANDIANI (LN-Aut). We call for the vote to be taken by simultaneous ballot by electronic means. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Article 1. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. We shall now proceed to the vote on Rule 2. Mr Calderoli (LN-Aut). We call for the vote to be taken by simultaneous ballot by electronic means. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Rule 2. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the examination of Article 3, on which amendments have been tabled, which are intended to be presented, on which I invite the rapporteur and the representative of the Government to give their views.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-09-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-884.ana.u96	Madam President, I am against all the amendments.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-09-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-884.ana.u97	Madam President, I agree with the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-09-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-884.ana.u98	We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 3,100. CANDIANI (LN-Aut). We call for simultaneous ballots to be carried out by electronic means. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of Amendment 3,100, tabled by Senator Petraglia and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of Amendment 3,101, tabled by Senator Petraglia and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of Amendment 3,102, tabled by Senator Petraglia and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Let us move on to Amendment 3,103, on which the 5th Commission has expressed an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution. PETRAGLIA (Misto-SI-SEL). We are asking for the vote. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request for a vote is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). Pursuant to Rule 102-bis of the Rules of Procedure, I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of Amendment 3,103 tabled by Senator Petraglia and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Amendment 3104 tabled by Senator Petraglia and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Rule 3. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the examination of Article 4, on which amendments have been tabled, which are intended to be presented, on which I invite the rapporteur and the representative of the Government to give their views.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-09-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-884.ana.u99	Madam President, I am against all the amendments.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-09-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-884.ana.u100	Madam President, I agree with the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-09-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-884.ana.u101	We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment No 4,100. CANDIANI (LN-Aut). We call for simultaneous ballots to be carried out by electronic means. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 4,100, tabled by Senator Petraglia and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 4101, tabled by Senator Petraglia and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 4102 tabled by Senator Petraglia and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by a simultaneous vote on Amendment 4.103 tabled by Senator Petraglia and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 4104 tabled by Senator Petraglia and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Rule 4. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the vote on Rule 5. CANDIANI (LN-Aut). We call for the vote to be taken by simultaneous ballot by electronic means. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Rule 5. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the examination of Article 6, on which amendments have been tabled, which are intended to be presented, on which I invite the rapporteur and the representative of the Government to give their views.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-09-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-884.ana.u102	Madam President, I am against all the amendments. As far as the agenda is concerned, Mr G6100, it is the repositioning in the Chamber of an agenda on which I and the representative of the Government had already expressed an opinion in favour of the Commission. The opinion therefore remains opposed.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-09-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-884.ana.u103	Madam President, I agree with the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-09-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-884.ana.u104	We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 6,100. SANTANGELO (M5S). We call for simultaneous ballots to be carried out by electronic means. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 6,100, tabled by Senator Montevecchi and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 6101 tabled by Senator Montevecchi and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Senator Montevecchi, do you insist on voting on the agenda G6100? Montevecchi (M5S). Yes, Madam President. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of the agenda G6.00, presented by Senator Montevecchi and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Rule 6. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the examination of Article 7, on which an amendment has been tabled, which is intended to be presented, on which I invite the rapporteur and the representative of the Government to give their views.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-09-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-884.ana.u105	Madam President, the opinion on amendment 7,100 is against it.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-09-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-884.ana.u106	Madam President, the opinion of the Government is in line with the opinion of the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-09-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-884.ana.u107	In view of the contrary opinion expressed by the 5th Commission pursuant to Article 81 of the Constitution, amendment 7,100 is impervious. We shall now proceed to the vote on Rule 7. SANTANGELO (M5S). We call for the vote to be taken by simultaneous ballot by electronic means. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Rule 7. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B).
ParlaMint-IT_2017-09-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-884.ana.u108	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-09-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-884.ana.u109	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-09-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-884.ana.u110	DAVICO (FL (Id-PL, PLI)). Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, the measure before us still concerns three illustrious Italians, among the most important figures in our history and in the world. The measure provides for the establishment of three national committees, in order to allow a better celebration of the death of Leonardo da Vinci in 2019, Raffaello Sanzio in 2020 and Dante Alighieri in 2021. We believe it is important that the three separate anniversaries are not left to the isolated and unfortunately sometimes fragmentary action of separate committees for the celebrations, but included in an integrated and unique program of historical-cultural initiatives that belong to our country, which had the destiny to give birth to them. The establishment of the national committees is supported, and by us of the Federation of Freedom Group supported, because the Republic, as part of its functions, has the task of promoting the development of culture and scientific research. The Republic also has the function of safeguarding and enhancing the Italian cultural tradition and the artistic and historical heritage of the Nation and certainly the memory and promotion of the work of Leonardo da Vinci, Raffaello Sanzio and Dante Alighieri fully respond to the constitutional dictation. Colleagues, let us spare the apology of the three monuments of our culture. We could discern here for hours and days of their work, yet we would not be able to render their greatness. They are, in fact, our most important, sought after and envied cultural heritage, as well as universally recognized. However, measures such as this are useful and appropriate to further disseminate and make the value of this national heritage better known. Thanks to our decisions today we can arrange that representatives of Italian and international culture of proven competence and knowledge of the figure to be celebrated compose the committees mentioned in the beginning. Moreover, there are beneficial synergies between representatives of public and private entities operating in the cultural sector and who have acquired a special and proven competence, as well as the direct knowledge of the figure to be celebrated. In detail, the measure includes restoration activities of objects or buildings under protection, as well as the promotion of research activities, editorials, training and exhibitions. There are also forms of organization and management of events in the cultural, historical, literary, scientific and artistic fields, in a perspective of internationalization and technological innovation, in order to succeed not so much in giving lustre to the three genes, but in making better known precisely, in detail, their work. In a perspective of internationalization, particularly happy appears to us the prediction of the use of digital tools, such as dynamic open data platforms, updated and developed through explorations, to constitute the cultural values to be celebrated as educational heritage, especially in academic fields and international research, so that it is possible to use the celebratory occasion as a shared form of international educational development and as an opportunity to exercise global citizenship. The awareness of the dissemination of the work of exceptional Italians, who well before the Network or the web have been able to be preceded by their fame beyond the narrow national borders, makes us welcome the prediction, for the national committees, of an action to be carried out in close coordination between them. To this end, we believe that it is a common sense measure for the integration and consistency of the work of the individual committees with the programmes and activities of the historical-scientific committee for anniversaries of national interest set up by the Presidency of the Council of Ministers. The aims will be achieved through actions shared by the various administrations concerned, by establishing, in order to better succeed, at the Ministry of Cultural Heritage and Activities, a directing booth consisting of three members, representing respectively the Presidency of the Council of Ministers, the MIUR and the MIBACT. Particularly important are the provisions contained in Article 6, which provides for the possibility of declaring movable or immovable things as assets of cultural interest, to anyone belonging, if they are particularly important because of their reference to political, military, literature, art, science, technology, industry and culture in general, or as evidence of the identity and history of public, collective or religious institutions. In this case they can be declared a national monument, just as those goods that have a witness value or express an identity or civic connection of exceptional distinctive meaning can be. With this forecast, for the first time, the private property is also subject to the provisions of protection dictated by the code of cultural goods, which is newsed by the measure. The current code, with regard to the declaration of national monument, does not provide for a specific procedure to be put in place, limiting itself to establishing that they are inalienable, such as cultural property, property declared as national monuments in accordance with the legislation in force at the time and, in other parts, to be without prejudice to laws specifically relating to national monuments. Unfortunately, the new proposal fails to clarify all the doubts in this area. In fact, the need remains to clarify whether, and to what extent, the declaration of a national monument gives rise to further legal effects than those resulting from the declaration of cultural interest. Thus, perhaps with too much haste, a novella has been introduced in the code, providing for a procedure to declare a monument as national, to be included in the declaration of cultural interest, with which a certain good is recognized as cultural good. We are aware that the measure under consideration does not, however, specify whether and to what extent the declaration of a property as a national monument gives rise to further legal effects than those resulting from the same declaration on the same property of cultural interest. This is not a minor aspect, on which the Government should intervene for the better coordination of the rules themselves and possibly with an ad hoc implementing decree. Despite this notation, in order to which we urge the Government to act, colleagues, the initiative seems to us worthy of the support of the Federation of Freedom Group, which will vote in favour of the measure under discussion.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-09-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-884.ana.u111	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-09-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-884.ana.u112	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-09-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-884.ana.u113	Hundreds of thousands (LN-Aut). Madam President, I rise to reiterate what we said in the explanation of vote before, no more, no less. I know that some of our colleagues will be bothered and will think that what we are saying is a waste of time. Unfortunately, we have seen a total disinterest in the measure by many of our fellow Members, who were only present for the vote and then left the Chamber to do their own business. As a result, once again we believe - we say this and we want it to remain in the proceedings - that the measure we are considering should have been dealt with in the Commission; we cannot commit this House from 16.30 to 19 to deal with a measure like this. Colleagues, that means we've been making melina. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group]] We listened to colleagues who read to us from Wikipedia about Leonardo da Vinci's life. To listen to Leonardo da Vinci's life, I don't have to come to the Senate Chamber; I'm at home, I open the Internet or I remember what I studied at school. If the aim is to pull the time and get two bills approved in two days and, as a result, the majority bring home two measures we may seem nice, good and efficient, but we think we have only wasted a lot of time. I remember that outside there is an Italy that produces, that needs answers from politics, that asks us and the parliamentary classrooms to be closer to the citizens and we are dealing with a measure that nobody cares about but Minister Franceschini in order to have even more power. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group and Senator Nugnes]] My Group will vote in favour of the measure because, as I said on more than one occasion, we will vote on the subject and not the working methodology and the fact that we have wasted a lot of time. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group and Senator Nugnes.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-09-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-884.ana.u114	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-09-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-884.ana.u115	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-09-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-884.ana.u116	Mr Barani (ALA-SCLP). Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, as a Senator and member of the 7th Permanent Commission, as well as President of the Ala-Scelta Civic Group, I would like to begin by expressing my opinion in favour of having devoted these hours of work to discussing draft laws of parliamentary and governmental initiative such as this which we are dealing specifically with. In fact it is necessary to dedicate legislative initiatives to the culture and to the Italians who have made Italy great. This bill, which celebrates the five hundred years after the death of Leonardo da Vinci and Raffaello Sanzio and the seven hundred years after the death of Dante Alighieri, anniversaries that recur, respectively, in the years 2019, 2020 and 2021, provides in its articulation the composition of committees, reciting themselves, whose components are chosen, separately for each of them, between representatives of Italian and international culture having proven competence and knowledge of the life and works of Leonardo da Vinci, Raffaello Sanzio and Dante Alighieri, as well as among representatives of public and private subjects who operate in the cultural sector and who, for the statutory purposes or for the cultural activity actually carried out, have acquired a special competence and a direct knowledge of the figures to celebrate, or who are particularly involved in the celebration for the territorial or institutional field in which they act. What I hope and strongly recommend to the Minister promoting this bill, - and I would like the Undersecretary to point out to him - is that these requirements be really and pedissequamente evaluated in order to ensure that the approval of the measure can really have the high institutional and cultural value that the celebrations of these extraordinary Italians deserve. Celebrating Raffaello Sanzio and Leonardo da Vinci means celebrating the cradle of the Renaissance, one of the best expressions of our Italy, which is still enriched today by their universal genius, to which one must necessarily be grateful and grateful. I do not go any further because, both Raphael and Leonardo, they do not need other words of gratitude and gratitude from our Group. The celebration that we treat in this bill, however, and that, I confess, is more close to my heart, is that of Dante Alighieri. As I have already said in my speech on Ovid, with Dante Alighieri our ancestors, as all too often happened, have not been far-sighted. They were actually executionalists. Yet today Dante is considered in Italy and in the world the father of the Italian language. He too, opposed for his life closely linked to the events of politics, was exiled and never saw his homeland again. When you tell the life of the poet, you rarely remember that Dante lived for many years in the mountains of the Tuscan-Emilian and Tuscan-Romagna Apennines, in my land, the Lunigiana immediately after having fled Bologna. In Lunigiana, including Villafranca, Dante stayed several times and for a long time and there, in addition to the territories, he appreciated the human capital. He described in the eighth song of Purgatory the places and vapor of the Magra, the river that runs along the Lunigiana longitudinally. He was a guest and had the opportunity to raise in his verses of the Divine Comedy the family of the Malaspinas, of the nobles known throughout Europe. With the Malaspinas, in my Lunigiana, he has established a happy relationship, which is unusual for him. In that ancient Marchan family, he still finds the true values and courteous behaviors that are very dear to him. As mayor of Villafranca in 2006 I celebrated the eighteenth anniversary of his presence in Lunigiana. I was able to dedicate a monument to him, which is the only one in the world - perhaps someone does not know - to have the true face of Dante. The anthropologist Mallegni of the University of Pisa, who reproduced the faces of Saint Anthony, Leonardo and many others, had the chance with the studies on the skeleton to reconstruct the real face. There is depicted with the white marble of Carrara the true face of Dante Alighieri. If someone passes through that land, he can go see it because it is a unique sculptural work because it is Dante's face. Having lived in Lunigiana, I consider it an ancestor of mine: he lived there for years and impregnated himself with that culture and I believe that he had many descendants there; therefore, it is an important land also thanks to the contribution given not only from the cultural point of view. It is very important what we are doing to celebrate the seven hundred years since his death because we must be careful: in 2006, when we celebrated in Villafranca the seven hundred years since his presence in the City, which he described and made immortal throughout the world together with the places of Lunigiana, there is always the devil behind. I am referring to the devil who sent Dante into exile, condemning him in absentia and forcing him to wander - I know that he was buried in Ravenna and that he had been before by the Estensi to Ferrara, but I believe that Minister Franceschini does not have Dante's DNA because those who have it can only be guaranteed; the executioners do not have that DNA - and that he also struck us for having dared to celebrate the seven hundred years from his presence also in Villafranca, inquisiting all the members of that municipal council for the expense of 142 euros. These guys never pay. Now that we have made a law, it is hoped that, when Leonardo, Dante and Raffaele are celebrated, there will be no one to inquire who comes to the celebrations or who spends 142 euros to make a convention. However, in order to go to the newspapers, Massa's proxy managed to do this too: I am convinced that Dante will not forgive her. I said this, about the Dante studies, because precisely in our land, in the archive of Sarzana - as Senator Massimo Caleo, who was mayor of that municipality, knows well - was found the official document in which Dante had managed to make the famous peace between the bishops-accounts of Luni and the Marquises Malaspina, in Piazza della Carcandola. Those acts have been found, on which someone says that maybe there is the signature of Dante (it is not known whether it is his or not), but it is certain that the poet had been charged to oversee that famous peace between the lords of Lunigiana and the bishop-accounts of Luni, among which the war continued from dozens of damages. That is also an accessible document. As Aristotle said, the roots of culture are love, but the fruits are sweet and that is why we must commit ourselves to celebrating and remembering culture, which has always made our country great, even against some prosecutor who would like this not to happen. [[Applause from the ALA-SCCLP Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-09-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-884.ana.u117	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-09-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-884.ana.u118	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-09-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-884.ana.u119	LIUZZI (GAL (DI, GS, MPL, RI)). Madam President, I would like to announce the vote in favour of the measure by the Group of the Great Autonomous and Freedoms, which has different sensitivities within it, but all convergent in recognizing the celebratory, ethical and promotional data of the measure under consideration. I should also like to draw the House's attention to something that perhaps little has been highlighted, namely the opportunity, to be considered extraordinary, of a reference to a common vision, based on roots, traditions and values that the national community could draw from this measure in order to find points of view of a collegial and collective nature. On this opportunity is founded the attempt not only to recover identity, but also to find unifying meeting points also in the environments in which culture is articulated. I am referring clearly to the school, to the centres of design and cultural execution such as academies, universities and conservatives, to the many study centres, to the same society Dante Alighieri, to the institutions of Italian culture abroad, which could contribute to creating a collective vision based on values of national concord. These values could also serve as a model for a global society, which is increasingly breaking down and directing its attention to detail, so that the values contained in Italian literature (with reference to Dante Alighieri) or in Italian painting (with reference to Raffaello Sanzio) and in Leonardo's work can be affirmed. I am opening a small parenthesis on this subject. It seems to me that this point of view has been grasped, also for the identifying aspects of Italianity and Italian genius, in one of the most important multinational companies based in Italy such as Finmeccanica, which for a few months has changed its name and has acquired that of Leonardo precisely in homage to the great genius, representative of Italianity in the world. These are the reasons why we believe that the measure has the dignity to be discussed in a House of Parliament and that Parliament takes the time to put the right points on this issue. I should like to conclude by making a point which refers to the famous Article 6 of the draft law, namely the provisions on the declaration of national monuments. It almost looks like a fig leaf; since we know that there is a vexed question about the modalities and precariousness of the procedures, so so far we have never understood how we come to declare a monument of national value, we wanted to take advantage of this measure to remedy it. I believe that this could have deserved an autonomous and independent measure, which would have served as a handbook for one or more municipalities or regions (as stated in Article 6) interested in declaring a national monument a civic good, a historical good, an architectural good or an artistic good. From this point of view, the draft law is almost used as an escapism, but I believe that, with a separate provision, we would have had the opportunity to give great dignity to this right need on the part of the local communities, in order to see recognized a good that belongs to their own history and to their own tradition, elevated to the dignity of a national monument. [[Applause from Senator Davico.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-09-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-884.ana.u120	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-09-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-884.ana.u121	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-09-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-884.ana.u122	Granaiola (Art.1-MDP). Madam President, this bill - and it is not a waste of time to remember it - aims to promote the development of culture and scientific research, as well as the enhancement of the Italian cultural tradition and the artistic and historical heritage of our country. Issues that are perhaps too little discussed in these classrooms, so I really believe that this has not been a waste of time at all. This bill contains provisions for the celebrations of the five hundred years since the death of Leonardo and Raffaello Sanzio and of the seven hundred years since the death of Dante Alighieri. This is done with the necessary advance, because it will take place in 2019, 2020 and 2021 respectively. The measure therefore offers the appropriate time to prepare a suitable celebratory program to emphasize the life, thought and works of artists considered among the greatest genes of humanity. Too bad, as usual, that the adequacy of the times do not correspond adequate resources, which should have been additional and not go to reduce the already too scarce resources allocated to the museum system, giving rise, alas, to a simple game of tour, which re-proposes the theme of the scarcity of resources dedicated to culture in our country. But since this is an important opportunity to enhance our culture and our territories, Article 1 - Democratic and progressive movement will vote in favour of this measure, also because the three committees provided for in the draft law, perhaps a little plethora, being composed of fifteen people each, will have to work in close collaboration in the elaboration of the cultural plan and in the realization of the consequent activities, in coherence with the programs and activities of the historical-scientific committee for anniversaries of national interest, established at the Presidency of the Council of Ministers, and with the coordination of a direction cabin consisting of three members, one representing the Presidency of the Council, one of the MIUR and one of the MIBACT. To tell the truth, if it were not that all these people involved will have to be chosen among exponents of Italian and international culture having proven competence and knowledge of the life and works respectively of Leonardo, Raffaello and Dante, and that a member of each national committee will have to be designated by the unified Conference, especially since the members of each committee will not be paid any compensation, I would sincerely feel that I doubt that such a large group of people can really coordinate, work together and give life to programs that have in common activities of restoration, research, editorials, training, exhibitions and technological innovation that can spread in Italy and abroad the knowledge of thought, work, culture and heritage of three such important characters. We therefore trust and will monitor the capacities of the people who will be involved and above all we trust in the ability to synthesise the direction cabin and in the supervision that the Ministry of Cultural Heritage and Activities and Tourism will be able to carry out. It would really be a shame to waste an opportunity to create work for young scholars and professionals in the sector, to invest in both school and university training, to involve local authorities and to enhance the territories where the figures in question lived and developed their own ingenuity. In my opinion, it remains to be clarified whether, with the provision that gives MIBACT the power to integrate each national committee with additional public or private entities even after their constitution, it will be possible to go beyond the number of fifteen members and at what intervals the committees must send to the Ministry the statements on the use of the funding received. With regard to Article 6, concerning the declaration of national monuments, even as indicated by the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, it would have been appropriate to clarify whether this declaration would result in further legal effects than those resulting from the declaration of cultural interest provided for in Article 13 of Legislative Decree No 42 of 2004. Yet, exceptional lives such as those of Dante, Raffaello and Leonardo deserve to be remembered and retraced, also going beyond clarifications and clarifications that would inevitably lead us to waste precious time to achieve the objectives that the bill in question aims to achieve; very ambitious but shared objectives that, precisely because of the scarce resources put in place, need the support of all those social political forces that have at heart the cultural and artistic development of our country, which have always been the most effective weapon of peace, the most valid instrument for the improvement of our life and our future. I therefore repeat the vote in favour of the Article 1 Group, democratic and progressive movement, with the hope that the remaining doubts will be clarified in the course of work and above all that the money allocated, although few, will be spent on serious, effective and transparent projects. [[Applause from the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and ……]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-09-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-884.ana.u123	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-09-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-884.ana.u124	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-09-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-884.ana.u125	Conte (AP-CpE-NCD). Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, we are faced with an important measure that the Government and Minister Franceschini have correctly set out in terms of the method. The bill refers to the anniversaries of three figures (Leonardo, Raffaello and Dante) representing the priceless treasures of our cultural heritage; personalities who have achieved, in their fields of action, unmatched results and which represent, not only for us who are born and live in the places where they were born, lived and worked, but for all European citizens, a reason for pride and pride. They are personalities with international resonance and notoriety, who have a capacity to arouse admiration all over the world and who really have few equals. I believe that, in the face of such extraordinary figures, it has been correct to envisage a non-ordinary legislative initiative, a bill characterized primarily by timeliness, which is proposed to plan, from now on, initiatives that will cover a three-year period, since anniversaries will fall in 2019, 2020 and 2021. The Group of Popular Alternatives will vote strongly in favour, because, as a great thinker of the twentieth century said, Von Balthasar: In a world without beauty - even if men cannot do without this word and constantly have it on their lips, misunderstanding its meaning - in a world that is perhaps not deprived of it, but that is no longer able to see it, to deal with it, even good has lost its power of attraction, the evidence of its having to - be - fulfilled; and man remains perplexed in front of it and wonders why he should not rather prefer evil. On the other hand, we must enhance beauty, our culture and show it to everyone, indicate it and support it. It is the greatest heritage we have, we don't have another one like that, and it is from all points of view, from the human, social and also economic points of view. Even our Made in Italy, with which we fill our mouths, is born as a fruit on the branch of our cultural, artistic and musical tradition. Who says that with culture you don't eat mistakes. It is with ignorance that one does not eat, and certainly not with culture. Today we do this rule to remember three monuments of our great heritage. The word "monument" has the same root of "memory," but memory is not a fact of the past: it is the life and strength of the present and the future. For this reason we have the duty to remember these great personalities who have made great history, an extraordinary history, that is that of our country. Our great heritage of beauty is also the greatest contribution that Italy can make to Europe and the whole world, which has never needed it as it is now, because the world needs beauty, positivity and construction. Another merit that has this measure - perhaps the first and the most important - seems to me to have emphasized the importance of having initiatives characterized by synergy. In the presence of such important anniversaries, we will probably see a flourishing of events that is important not to be unorganized and fragmentary and that must be subject to the prudent and forward-looking action of a directing booth, in which representatives of the institutions, eminent figures of research and all public and private subjects who have the title to make proposals and organize events in a field like this. It seems to me very important that the draft law before us lay down the conditions for fruitful cooperation between the national committees that will be set up and the historical-scientific committee for anniversaries of national interest, which has been operating since 2013 in the Council Presidency. I also believe that it should be stressed that, in the face of anniversaries of this importance, it is important for events to be organised in various areas. We are called upon to give a boost to the scientific sector, to the research sector. I think it is important to recall the need to enhance the places where these personalities lived and worked. I think it is important that we refer to high-level training and school training. It seems to me important the reference made to the conference activities, seminars, exhibitions, the possibility of using the resources that have been made available for restoration works of movable and immovable property. In short, it is a complete measure, attentive to the multiplicity of important relapses that celebrative events of this type can have. Finally, I note that in the measure is also adequately represented a necessity that inspired the action of the Government and the majority and that has constituted a constant of the work that we have done in the cultural field in recent years, that is, the awareness that remembering in the cultural field makes sense if the remembrance is associated with looking forward; if, together with the exaltation of a glorious past, one is able to indicate new objectives, new goals, new directions of study and research, new achievements to be achieved. It seems to me that in the measure this need has had an adequate response and that this awareness is fully present. We need a culture that looks not only at the past, but also at the present and the future and is a great opportunity, especially for young people. I hope that the norm that we make today really serves to commemorate in the sense that I said before, that is, aware of the past, and also to give strength and life to the present and to the future. [[Applause from the AP-CpE-NCD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-09-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-884.ana.u126	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-09-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-884.ana.u127	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-09-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-884.ana.u128	BOCCHINO (Misto-SI-SEL). Madam President, the draft law before us gives us the opportunity to make a very general reflection on the subject of the National Committees for Celebrations. It is a reflection with many shadows, which has led us Senators of the Italian Left to develop a different position on this bill compared to what we have taken with regard to the measures examined previously, such as the one for the celebration of the 150 years since Rossini's death. It is in fact an abstention. And we do so on this measure, rather than on the previous ones, for a number of reasons: first of all, the one under consideration is a measure of governmental origin, with which the Government intervenes very heavily, colonizing them politically, on the committees that will have to carry out the events, composed of forty-five members of government nomination; which never hurts towards the end of a legislature. They are well controlled, because they are coordinated by a directional cabin, direct appointment of the President of the Council, the MIUR and MIBACT, who will oversee the operations of the forty-five experts. Secondly, there is a problem with funding: the committees, with a total of 45 members, will receive a total of 3.5 million euros, which are not additional funds but are being removed, once again, from those for the operation of museum offices. And I'm talking about current expenses and stationery. So if we add the EUR 3.5 million to the EUR 700,000 provided for in the bill for the celebrations of Rossini, which we have just finished examining, and which insisted on the same chapter; and if we consider that there are currently EUR 10 million on this chapter, the fund of operation of the museums - as you will understand - is substantially reduced by almost half of the resources. So if we have any problems with the operation of some museums tomorrow, we will know why, which is what we are discussing today. In addition, Madam President, there is the great issue of the functioning of the Centenary Celebration Committees. There is a law, No 420 of 1997, which was enacted precisely for the purpose of ordering the sector. In the illustrative report of the measure under consideration, as well as in the illustration made by the rapporteur, the Government and the rapporteur herself, they have been quick to point out that Law 420 is an inadequate instrument to finance the committee for the celebration of the three figures under consideration. These are, among other things, three figures - I do not spend more words to say this - of great interest in our culture and our vote of abstention does not mean in any way a lack of recognition to the figure of these three illustrious compatriots, since ours is a matter of method. According to the Government and the rapporteur - as we have heard - this law is not a suitable instrument. Let us therefore try to understand why it is not a suitable instrument. Let us try to understand what Law No. 420 of 1997. Every year, the Ministry receives a number of questions from associations, movements or citizens who want to set up committees for the celebration of centenaries of illustrious people. The applications, which are examined by the Minister each year, must be accompanied by a technical report which must bear the objectives and programme of the celebrations; an indication of the necessary financial resources, separated by stages of implementation; an estimate of revenue and expenditure, drawn up in an analytical form; a list of institutions, bodies and scholars involved in the programme; an updated bibliographical documentation on the characters; proposals for the designation of the bodies of the national committee. All this must first be submitted to the Ministry in the form of a question, in response to a call, and then the best ideas are selected. Furthermore, consider that Law No 420 of 1997 may also finance events of a non-local nature; multidisciplinary or multi-sectoral events or activities; it may include an economic plan containing co-financing items from other administrations or private individuals; it may finance networks of cultural institutions. In short, it seems that this law has all the cards in order to finance committees, even of great cultural importance such as those we are discussing at the moment. But we have to compete. You have to present the program first and say what you want to do first. You have to compete with other ideas of the same kind. And these ideas are sent to the Ministry, which has constituted the permanent consultation that judges the proposals and which is made up of experts in the field; a permanent consultation that is renewed every three years. But this Government, Madam President, does not like the procedures for selecting the best ideas. We prefer to intervene by law and postpone the programme until later: first we set up the committee of forty-five and then we see what needs to be done, and they will decide later. There is, then, a very interesting point in Law No 420 of 1997 that I would like to stress. I am referring to the monitoring of the activities of the Centenary National Committees. Well, the law says that by 31 January each year the committees admitted to the contribution must send to the Ministry the report on the work carried out and the balance sheet of the expenditure carried out. For each committee, the Ministry appoints - think - an auditor. Well, Madam President, there is no record in this draft law of auditors who can put their finger on the activities of the celebration committees. If the activity has not been carried out according to the programme approved by the Consulta - think - the law n. 420 of 1997 provides the possibility of not financing the committee further. And yes, there is a judgment: oh what a scandal! There is a judgment on the activities, which is completely missing - even if I say so - in the bill that we are examining. There is also the question of funding, Madam President: the 1997 Law No 422, which has so many advantages, which selects the best ideas, started in 1997 with EUR 6.5 million - at the time the equivalent in lire - has been progressively definanced, especially in recent years, until - think a little - the poor figure of EUR 463,000. In the 7th Commission right now we are discussing the decree to allocate the funds of these poor EUR 463,000, with the hope of finding another EUR 700,000. In any case, this is a speech that we will discuss in the Commission together with our colleagues and the rapporteur. Well, that law has been destructured. There is a very precise idea, there is a direction behind all this: enough with the procedures that select the best ideas; enough with the hairs; better to make ad hoc laws, especially in the final phase of the legislature. Better get rid of all the laces and laces. That is where the timing and the manner in which I read in the explanatory report of the measure lie. That is the point, Madam President: a sacrosanct law is being destructured which selects the best ideas for ad hoc measures that pave the way for the government; they pave the way for the political colonization of these events and, above all, they pave the way for activities. Add to this some paradoxes: think that the 750th anniversary of the birth of Dante Alighieri was financed by the aforementioned law n. 420 of 1997, while the 700th anniversary of death is financed by an ad hoc law. And the procedure of destructuring the law of 1997, obviously does not only concern this government initiative, because in recent years there have been many other initiatives: the committees have been set up very often through laws or even - thought - through ministerial decrees, once again in contempt of all the processes of selecting the best ideas and especially of the ex post control processes. Madam President, I conclude by saying that the Senators of the Italian Left, for all the reasons highlighted, will vote for an abstention on the draft law. [[Applause from the Group (Misto-SI-SEL.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-09-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-884.ana.u129	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-09-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-884.ana.u130	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-09-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-884.ana.u131	SERRA (M5S). Madam President, the 5 Star Movement will abstain from this bill because - as we have already said - the fact that funding comes to the national committees set up for the celebrations is - in our opinion - truly offensive. For us, culture and knowledge must pass first of all to the school; they must be something established within the institution system; it cannot be the committees that deal with the management of the celebrations and enjoy funding from commercials. For all these reasons, we will abstain. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-09-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-884.ana.u132	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-09-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-884.ana.u133	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-09-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-884.ana.u134	GIRO (FI-PdL XVII). Madam President, Forza Italia will vote in favour of this measure, which concerns three recognised giants of Italian and European culture all over the world. So, we can't do anything different. Of course, it is a written measure - in my opinion - in a rather hasty way, where the international dimension is very fragile and where the role of private individuals is not specified. I am in favour of private participation in the design of the project, but here it seems that the private sector is only asking for money. Even from the point of view of the economic contribution, however, we do not understand exactly what they can do and what they should do, since the stated criteria and requirements are very general and general. These are, of course, measures taken to set up the national committees quickly - as the previous speakers have well said - without, however, clarifying exactly what requirements they should be. Committees of 45 people? I, frankly, see many affinities between the Leonardo da Vinci committee and the Raffaello committee, as the two characters are quite close in time, work and prestige. So, we could also have functionalized the committee by making it unitary. I have also seen that cooperation between the three national committees is envisaged in the text. I hope that there will be a real synergy and - as written in the middle of the paragraphs in a rather distracted way - also a relapse regarding the tourist and cultural profile of the territory and the landscape. They are, that is, stated important concepts and, therefore, acceptable, but in a slim measure. Maybe that's what he always did, as he always says. This is not the first national committee. We have appointed several of them over the decades, although - as Senator Bocchino has rightly pointed out - a precise law regulates the establishment of national committees and provides for competition between projects. Projects must be credible and can also be dedicated to the same theme. There may be project A better than project B or project C absolutely unacceptable than project B. In short, there can also be a competition of projects on the same topic. In this case, however - as Senator Bocchino has rightly pointed out - the President of the Council and the Government decide. And, being the three characters of such relevance, it is also understandable that there is a procedure that is not normal, but a very quick ritual. I expected, however, that the government's measure, since it is so convinced, exposed and determined, would be a little more decent. My colleagues also take me around a little - nomen omen - saying that I am critical and then I declare the Group's vote in favour. But if I declared a vote against or even an abstention vote, journalists, who are malicious, would say that Forza Italia is against Dante Alighieri, against Raffaello and against Leonardo da Vinci. So, we have to make Realpolitik prevail. For this reason, I am voting in favour despite all the comments I have made. [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-09-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-884.ana.u135	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-09-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-884.ana.u136	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-09-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-884.ana.u137	Mr Marcucci (PD). Madam President, Mr Undersecretary, today we are going to adopt an important law, aimed at celebrating three very high figures of Italian culture: Dante, Leonardo and Raffaello. The purpose of this law is to make significant use at national and international level, through the activities of three separate committees, of the cultural legacy of the three greats, with initiatives of different sign, even in the places that saw their genius unleash themselves, and with the active involvement of the main scholars at world level. Today, when we approve this measure at second reading in this House, we stress precisely a path that sees the state working with the world of culture, with the academic world and with the local authorities, in order to support culture more and better. It is therefore an important measure for us all, for our history, for the whole country in general. It is incomprehensible that some political forces have been constructive and voted in favour of the Commission and do not do so in this House today. We would have liked a different signal. A reflection, yes, that has been urged must be done. And we should open it on how we can strengthen the path of valorization without having to proceed every time - since, fortunately, in Italy often resort centenaries worthy of celebrations - to approve an ad hoc law provision. And I think I can say that a road, quite easy and already fought, exists: I refer to Law No 420 of 1 December 1997, establishing the national committees, that it would be good to refinance properly precisely in order to have a place dedicated and always active that protects the celebrations from the risk of a legislative process that, from time to time, could reserve sudden stops, while maintaining the parliamentary verification provided for by the measure itself. So, also because of the forthcoming presentation of the stability bill, I call on the Government and Parliament to think about this law and the opportunity it offers. Beyond that, I repeat that we are about to vote on a very important measure. Once again, my thanks go to the Assembly, to which the draft law was transmitted at the beginning of May and in just four months it succeeds in approving it; as well as the Commission for Public Education, Cultural Heritage, which has worked without political distinction to achieve this important result. Every euro spent in culture is a good thing for us all and it represents a good investment. A measure like this helps us to enhance three great Italians, to rediscover them and to transmit to the new generations their cultural heritage. The legacy of Leonardo da Vinci, Raffaello Sanzio and Dante Alighieri are the foundations of our identity, which many pretend to defend, but which we really support with the approval of the measure under consideration. [[Applause from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-09-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-884.ana.u138	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-09-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-884.ana.u139	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-09-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-884.ana.u140	Mr Calderoli (LN-Aut). We call for the vote to be taken by simultaneous ballot by electronic means.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-09-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-884.ana.u141	I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I refer to the nominal vote by simultaneous ballot of bill No 2810, as a whole. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). The draft law No 2238 is therefore absorbed.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-09-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-884.ana.u142	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-09-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-884.ana.u143	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-09-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-884.ana.u144	AMIDEI (FI-PdL XVII). Madam President, I rise to draw the House's attention to an important problem that often affects many workers: the lack of safety in the workplace. I remember that three years ago, on September 22, 2014, Adria died at a company - Co.Im.Po - four people, whose funeral was attended by the president of the Commission of investigation on accidents at work, Senator Camilla Fabbri. That incident strongly marked the four families involved, and at the same time once again brought to the attention of the Minister of Labour and Social Policy the difficulties that many workers are forced to suffer in order to succeed in working and bringing home the salary to support the family. I would like more attention to be paid to the working environment by the competent bodies. I realize that we talk about this often, but in spite of all the daily news, this big problem is brought to our attention, which often remains unresolved. I would also like to mention the four people involved: Nicolò Bellato, twenty-eight years old; Paolo Valesella, fifty-three; Marco Berti, forty-seven, and Giuseppe Baldan, forty-seven. And in particular I remember that the youngest, employed, died in an attempt to save one of them: an example of heroism that we all have to consider, to make serious amends for such accidents no longer have to occur. I remember these fellow citizens not only because the facts have occurred in the territory in which I live, but also because I would like them to represent all our workers who every day risk their lives to bring home their wages to make their families live. [[Applause from the AP-CpE-NCD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-09-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-884.ana.u145	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-09-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-884.ana.u146	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-09-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-884.ana.u147	CASTALDI (M5S). Madam President, I have already spoken in this House about Honeywell International, a giant American in 70 countries, with some 1,250 sites and 129,000 workers, 23,000 of whom are scientists and engineers. In Abruzzo produces thermocompressors for cars. It is an active company in many sectors: 80 diversifications, investments in 60 sectors, huge return on profits. Incidentally, I inform you that it is also active in the production of tritium for atomic devices, which directs the National Security Campus (so atomic warheads) and has received funding for one billion 271 million euros from companies like Intesa Sanpaolo. In Italy it has shamelessly exploited the entire chain of incentives and shock absorbers, and then think well to transfer the tax office to Switzerland. It is, in short, an economic empire that, according to profit alone and to the detriment of general interests, has subjugated the institutions and politics; the same policy that tomorrow morning, at 9.30 am, will go to parade and promise, as it has always done. Workers have been on permanent strike since 18 September and know politicians, just as they know national information which, to date, is silent. They defend their families, who have been paying for nine years the constant and uninterrupted use of shock absorbers, for a turbo crisis that, in fact, is not there. What is there is, instead, a very precise choice of the corporate, capable of frustrating the continuous sacrifices of the workers. The world's volumes of Honeywell turbos are growing exponentially. What a crisis! These are conscious choices, at the expense of Italy and in favour of Romania and Slovakia, justified - as it were - by the cost of labour. Only three years ago there was a model agreement - they called it at the time - that regulated the management of 70 redundancies and planned a raise for the following year. To date it is lapalissian that the company considers the workers of Atessa as a simple variable within a logic in which there is only the primacy of profit. Today, the imperative of all of us and of the institutions is only one: to save this fundamental productive pole and the current level of employment. Why do you keep the plan for Atessa's pole in the shadows? Are you afraid of some consequences? It is not possible that a multinational that invokes millions of dollars and that continues to exploit the crisis, drawing from the shock absorbers for more than nine years, can decide in total freedom to abandon our country. Starting from the promised meeting with the Ministry for Economic Development, scheduled for 2 October, we need certain answers; certain answers from the Minister and the management, but the real one, what can and must decide, and also very quickly. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-09-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-884.ana.u148	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-09-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-884.ana.u149	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-09-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-884.ana.u150	RICHIUTI (Art. 1-MDP). Madam President, first of all I would like to congratulate the judiciary and the law enforcement forces on their operation in Lombardy this morning. The presence of the 'ndrangheta on the Lombard territory and in the province of Monza and Brianza has long been known, since the infinite survey of 2010. And I've been suing her for a long time. On Seregno, in particular, I presented in 2015 the question 4-04150 and in 2016 the 4-05420 Emerge a disturbing picture, of voting exchange with the local 'ndrangheta, as well as presence in the territory of Seregno of drugs and weapons. Already in the past there have been seizures of drugs and weapons, as well as closure of bars and other commercial stores for mafia infiltration. The Government had not yet answered my questions; now it is urgent to send the Commission prefectia di accesso and then dissolve the City for mafia conditioning. [[Applause from the Art.1-MDP Group and Senator Orellana.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-09-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-884.ana.u151	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-09-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-884.ana.u152	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-09-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-884.ana.u153	MARTON (M5S). Madam President, I agree with what Senator Ricchiuti has requested. Our territory this morning has been hit, for the umpteenth time, by arrests. The 'ndrangheta is stronger than ever. In my area, the district of Desio and Seregno, a series of episodes led to today's situation. I would also like to inform Minister Minniti that very strange fires have occurred in recent times. I would like all the resources that Monza's D.A., Dr. Zanetti, has required for a long time to be paid back as soon as possible, because it is very urgent that the 'ndrangheta finally find a bulwark in the institutions, as happened today. I therefore support the compliments of her colleague to the judiciary and to all the Forces of the Order and insist that Minister Minniti allocate more resources to that area. [[Applause from Senator Buccarella.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-09-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-884.ana.u154	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-09-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-884.ana.u155	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-09-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-884.ana.u156	FUCKSIA (FL (Id-PL, PLI)). Madam President, today twenty years have passed since the terrible earthquake that shocked in 1997 the central Apennine axis, between the Marches and Umbria, with Colfiorito epicenter. Twenty seconds are a few, but they are endless when they wake up a city in the night; when you see it shake and collapse the house and when people rush out for fear of losing their lives along with the most precious possessions and affections. Since then, since 26 September, there have been various shocks that have lasted months, of magnitude 6.1 of the Richter scale. It must be said, however, that the reaction of the citizens and volunteers was commendable, as it always has been and is also commendable in the last earthquake that still sees us engaged today. Also commendable are the ability to do and the pragmatism of the mayors. And I want to remember in particular three mayors who took care of the reconstruction in my city: Mayor Castagnari, Mayor Santini and Mayor Sorci. In those days, without Facebook and with much less means, we managed to manage the emergency in a commendable way. Then I want to remember Giancarlo Sagramola, who was responsible for Civil Protection in my city. And I'm talking about my city because it's the one I know best and of which I have the most elements, in which there was only one deceased person, who we mourn today. I am referring to Mrs. Agnes Ciccacci, who died in an absurd way from the bounce of a stone on her head as a result of the collapse of a cornice. That was a fantastic model to take as an example: 70 percent of the displaced persons returned home within three years; 97 percent of the buildings were damaged, but 90 percent of the people evacuated in 1997 returned to their homes. The model was virtuous: consortia were built and repair and projects involved entire villages and countries; a virtuous model that was not taken to experience for the recent earthquake. And if in that reality, after only three months, there were caravans and housing modules, so everyone was indoors; and if, after three years, the reconstruction was completed, for the last earthquake, for which we did not treasure the experience, we still travel on the high seas. [[Applause from Senator Quagliariello.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-09-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-884.ana.u157	The motions, questions and questions received by the Presidency will be published in Annex B to today's report.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-09-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-884.ana.u158	The Senate will meet again tomorrow, Wednesday 27 September, in two public sessions, the first at 9.30 a.m. and the second at 16.30, with the following agenda: (See agenda) The sitting was closed at 19.46.
