ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-776.ana.u1	The sitting was opened at 16.03 p.m. The Minutes shall be read. Mr SAGGESE, Secretary, read the Minutes of the afternoon sitting of the previous day. PRESIDENT. - The debate is Since there were no comments, the Minutes were approved.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-776.ana.u2	The list of senators on leave and absent on assignment received from the Senate, as well as further communications to the Assembly, will be published in Annex B to today's Minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-776.ana.u3	The next item is the holding of questions. Question 3-02299 will first be asked about the damage caused by the proliferation of wild animals. The representative of the Government may answer this question.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-776.ana.u4	Madam President, with regard to the question of the uncontrolled proliferation of certain species of fauna, on the basis of the elements acquired by the competent Directorate-General of the Ministry of the Environment, the following is represented. It should be pointed out from the outset that the Ministry of the Environment is well aware of the damage, of various kinds, caused in particular to agricultural productions, both in protected areas and in the free hunting territories, in particular as regards the excessive number of wild boars present in most of the national territory (about one million individuals are estimated at the moment). In order to be able to manage this species optimally and limit its damage, the Ministry has considered it appropriate to update the guide lines for the management of wild boar in protected areas, which currently represents the reference for the management of the species within the protected areas. With regard to the numerical control of wildlife made redundant or problematic, in protected areas, Law No. 394 of 1991 provides that the Park Regulation lays down any derogations from the prohibitions, providing for possible wildlife levies and possible selective killings necessary to recompose ecological imbalances established by the Park Authority itself. Withdrawals and removals must take place on the initiative and under the direct responsibility and supervision of the Park Authority and be implemented by the staff of the Authority or by persons expressly authorized for this purpose by the same. It should also be borne in mind that under Law No 157 of 1992 the hunting activity and numerical control of wild animals made redundant or liable for damage caused to the environment are separate activities which are not comparable with respect to the reasons, the species under control, the personnel employed and authorised to carry out the checks and the methods and periods laid down for their implementation. By way of derogation from the relevant legislation, the same law provides that the Regions may also control wildlife species in areas where hunting is prohibited for various reasons, including the protection of zoo-agriforestry productions and requires that such control be carried out selectively and in the first analysis through the use of ecological methods, subject to the opinion of the Higher Institute for Environmental Protection and Research (ISPRA). If the Institute checks the inefficiency of these methods, the Regions may authorise abatement plans both in protected areas of regional competence and within the territory that can be used for hunting. Therefore, in the presence of serious damage to the agricultural productions caused by wildlife in protected areas and free hunting territories, it is consistent with the current legislation to implement control measures that provide for the numerical limitation of ungulate animals responsible for the damage. It should also be noted that, following repeated reports of the proliferation of wild boars, amendments have been adopted by Law No 221 of 2015 to Law No 157 of 1992 prohibiting the entry and artificial feeding of wild boars in kind, as well as the prohibition of the breeding of wild boars in certain areas adjacent to those protected, with a penalty regime of a criminal nature for offenders. By the same law it was also provided that the Regions and the Autonomous Provinces adapt the fauna-venor plans by identifying, in the territory of their own competence, the areas in which, in relation to the presence or the contiguousness with protected natural areas or with areas characterized by the location of particularly vulnerable agricultural productions, it is forbidden to breed and enter the wild boar species. In the light of the information presented, it is therefore considered that the current regulatory framework provides the appropriate tools for regions and protected areas to act effectively. In any case, as far as competence is concerned, the Ministry constantly monitors the regulatory impact of sector regulations, also in order to overcome the operational criticalities that should emerge and evaluate possible revisions of the discipline.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-776.ana.u5	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-776.ana.u6	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-776.ana.u7	Granaiola (Art.1-MDP). Madam President, I would like to thank the Under-Secretary for his reply, but I can only say that I am partially satisfied with the fact that the current legislation has proved insufficient to resolve the problem. In fact, also the guidelines do not foresee what would be a really radical solution; instead of entrusting the solution of the problem to the hunters who, in reality, have been the cause of the introduction of this species of wild boar so prolific in our country, it should be foreseen, in addition to a mapping of the most prolific areas, in which there are more wild boars, also a plan of eradication through vaccinations that are already in use in other countries. Such vaccinations are absolutely easy because they can be carried out by remote injections or by baits inserted into food that only avians can eat. I repeat, therefore, that, as the facts show, the present legislation is not enough, because the wild boars continue to be more and more numerous and to arrive in the city; I therefore believe that this is the proof that it is not enough.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-776.ana.u8	Following is question 3-03361 on the murder of an Italian citizen in Colombia on June 8, 2016. The representative of the Government may answer this question.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-776.ana.u9	Madam President, since the day Mr Martini was killed in the Colombian city of Cali, the Italian Embassy in Bogota has followed the matter with the utmost attention, in close contact with the Farnesina, by providing assistance to the family and by keeping in touch with the competent local authorities. As soon as he was informed of the death of his fellow countryman, the Italian embassy immediately activated to give news to the family, communicating the start of investigations by Colombian investigators. In order to cope with the family's impossibility to pay legal assistance in Colombia and not being able to take charge of it directly, the embassy provided the contacts of a local lawyer willing to follow the case free of charge. The results of the investigation were forwarded to the D.A. The judicial authority considered, however, that the case should be closed, considering that the facts available were insufficient to open an accusation and that witnesses or other material evidence to identify a suspect had not been identified. According to the Colombian order, in fact, in order to initiate an accusation procedure it is necessary that, on the basis of the evidence available, the defendant can be identified. After having been informed of the case, the ambassador, as the honourable Member said, took a step on the Colombian Ministry of Foreign Affairs, asking for clarification on the basis of the judge's decision, the results of the autopsy and the assessment of the vehicle and the place of crime. At the same time, the case has also been brought to the attention of the Prosecutor General, stressing our earnest expectation that those responsible for this crime will be identified and brought to justice. Awaiting a response to these requests, our embassy, also heard the opinion of the Colombian lawyer, suggested to the family to hire a private detective for the possible detection of new evidence. Even if the relevant expenses cannot be incurred by the embassy itself because the legislation does not allow it, this road could allow the reopening of the case if new evidence were to emerge before the prescription of the crime. It is ensured that the Italian Embassy in Colombia will continue, in close contact with the Farnesina, to follow with the utmost attention the developments of the matter, seeking first of all to obtain the required clarifications and to maintain contact with the family, putting into effect any initiative that can contribute to that justice is done.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-776.ana.u10	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-776.ana.u11	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-776.ana.u12	BELLOT (Misto-Fare!). Mr Secretary, I am partially satisfied with your reply because what our institutions wanted to carry forward was highlighted on the basis of the elements that emerged in the investigations. However, I believe that to date the family is not aware of what you have explained, as you spoke of the availability of a lawyer and of an activity carried out with reference to the dismissal of the case. From the contacts I have had with the family and their lawyer in Italy it emerges that there has been a real economic difficulty of the family, that it is found to have a working situation not of the simplest, with objective economic difficulties to support first of all the costs of the lawyer that had been initially proposed to the family. This was the first difficulty that emerged; then there were interlocutories available from the Ministry and the embassy that led to the closure of the case. The family with which I am speaking asked, through my voice, to be able to have a conversation with the competent minister in order to understand the margins for the reopening of the case, so as to make clarity on a murder preceded, among other things, by an ongoing trial and situations that I think are known to you or at least to the acts and that made it clear that there was therefore a antefact that could lead to a situation of doubt or in any case to a situation suspect absolutely unclear and not easily resolved. I therefore appeal to your sensitivity, Mr Undersecretary, and to the Ministry to identify the elements capable of responding to the victim's family members. I remember, among other things, that there is a minor daughter who is not understanding the death of a father in this situation, all the more in lack of answers and clarity. It would therefore be appropriate to reopen the case by providing at this stage objective support from a bureaucratic point of view, and providing, as far as possible, economic aid, because the family is absolutely not in the capacity to deal with this situation. I also remember that there was an almost imposed burial in a Colombian city. In fact, only later the authorities, through an intercourse, unfortunately after the burial, gave the willingness to have the body brought back. But even on the very burial of the Martini there has been an unclear situation. I would ask you to be sensitive in order to find a way of reopening the case, because the facts already lead to doubts as to whether it is an accident or rather an express will and given by this situation. Among other things, there was a trial that would soon see a comparison in courtrooms. I ask you for this possibility and a willingness to provide subsequent updates by communicating them to me or directly to the family, who made a strong appeal to me for answers. I repeat, there is a minor daughter waiting to understand, if not today maybe tomorrow, what happened to her father. Thank you and I ask you very much that you can still have support from the institutions of our country.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-776.ana.u13	The following is the question 3-03375 on the presence of Islamic terrorists in Italian prisons. The representative of the Government may answer this question.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-776.ana.u14	Madam President, with this inspection, the honourable Member asks to know the measures taken by the prison administration to inhibit contacts between prisoners of international terrorism and ordinary prisoners, as well as to know whether there is provision for the strengthening of translators who can assist in the monitoring of extremism. The analyses carried out on the phenomenon of radicalization confirm, as now acquired, that the prison environment is a potentially fertile ground for the spread of radicalization and jihadist extremism. Prison, in fact, is the place where high is the risk of isolation and exclusion, conditions on which radicalism uses to fuel feelings of hatred and revenge. The wealth of knowledge and experience in this field has led to the activation, for some years already, of an articulated plan, aimed at monitoring and preventing the phenomenon. In addition to the separation of inmates for terrorist crimes from the remaining restricted population, in order to capture early radicalisation indicators, it has been carried out for some time, also thanks to the contribution of a prison police to which specific training programmes are reserved, a widespread monitoring and monitoring activity, through the examination of data collected on prison life and contacts with the external community. Prevention and control activities are divided into three levels of progressive intensity. The persons reported are the prisoners on whom further investigation should be carried out in order to ensure possible inclusion in the categories of greatest alarm, and in this case the departments of the prison institutions are required to intensify the activity of observation and supervision. The detained are those who within the penitentiary have taken concrete and repeated attitudes that make them feel their closeness to the jihadist ideology and their inclination to carry out activities of proselytism and recruitment. In this case, the management concerned shall draw up, every two months, an empirical observation report and report the contact of the prisoner with the outsider. The monitored subjects are those against whom control for the detection of specific risk elements is more stringent. The accused or convicted of crimes committed for terrorism, including international terrorism, or of the exversion of the democratic order by the execution of acts of violence, are automatically included in this category. Among the prisoners for the other types of crime, to which one or more of the aforementioned crimes are contested free of charge, the insertion in the monitoring circuit, after acquiring information assumed by the investigative bodies, is evaluated by the competent Directorate-General; just as it is assessed the inclusion in the same circuit of the accused or sentenced for different crimes, but for which the investigative bodies show elements such as to make them consider related to subversive groups, or if the facts for which they are held have been put in place for purposes of terrorism or exversion. The subjects in question are monitored by the central investigative core, which ensures a thorough examination of all aspects of prison life of the same and their contacts with the outside. The data collected, duly aggregated and analysed by the central investigation nucleus, are used in order to carry out a punctual prevention activity. The results of these activities are shared, to this end, with the Committee for Strategic Anti-Terrorism Analysis and the National Anti-Mafia and Counter-Terrorism Directorate. The effectiveness of the control activities and the sharing of the relevant data have made possible, inter alia, the adoption of measures to expel 44 dangerous persons, as well as the initiation of preliminary investigations that have led to the recent arrest of a prisoner for the offence of association to criminals for purposes of terrorism. The inclusion of prisoners among the monitored subjects means that their treatment is among those of high security, with the consequent placement in special sections identified at the prison house of Rossano and at the surrounding houses of Sassari and Nuoro, which, in offering adequate treatment opportunities, ensure higher standards of prison security. In order to avoid possible proselytizing actions against weaker and less psychologically structured prisoners, the persons included in those departments cannot have any contact with the remaining population held and, in the case of temporary assignment to other institutions (for reasons of justice, approach to family talks, health reasons) which do not have such sections, the same are allocated in isolation. The data transmitted by the Department of Penitentiary Administration shows that the subjects detained in Italy for crimes related to international terrorism are 45, distributed among the following structures: 6 at the prison house of Rossano, 19 at the surrounding house of Sassari, 8 at the surrounding house of Nuoro, 2 women at the prison house of Rome Rebibbia, while other prisoners are assigned, for reasons of justice, to the Institutes of Benevento, Foggia, Lecce, Turin, Tolmezzo and Trento. The policies adopted by the Ministry of Monitoring and Control, however capillaries, in order to be effective in the fight against radicalization and proselytism of jihadist footprint, must be included in a panorama of measures aimed at the progressive humanization of prison conditions: the more the prison structures are able to ensure the dignity of individuals and the paths of support, integration and recovery, the less the risks for prisoners to approach those who propose models based on hatred, opposition and fanaticism. The objectives of monitoring and re-socialisation tend to be further measures to prevent radicalisation. On 5 November 2015, a Memorandum of Understanding was signed between the Ministry of Justice and the Union of Italian Islamic Communities and Organizations with the aim of improving the way in which the Islamic faith is interpreted in prison, providing valid religious and moral support to prisoners through access to institutions of adequately prepared people. The project, currently under trial at eight prisons, aims to facilitate the integration of Muslim prisoners of faith and to guarantee them the exercise of the right of worship, on the other hand establishes a connection between the voluntary operators and the bodies responsible for combating radicalisation. The same aims of monitoring and re-socialization are the basis of the forecast of an organic endowment of 67 units for the professional profile of cultural mediation, in the context of the procedures of re-determination of the organic endowments of the staff of the department of Ministries. Last September, moreover, it was addressed to the president of the conference of the rectors of Italian universities, in the light of the convention specifically stipulated by the Ministry on 27 January 2016, the invitation to ask the institutes of Arabic and Islamic sciences of the universities of the studies of the Republic to collect the availability of researchers and PhDs of research, to work, as volunteers, in prison institutions in order to increase understanding and improve human relations with the restricted Arabic language and culture. For the specific purpose of ensuring linguistic understanding in the monitoring and control activities, finally, with circular of 7 December 2016, it has been established that, since the professional figure of "translator" is not provided, in order to provide translations of the written texts in Arabic, found in common spaces and not falling within the neighborhood of the correspondence epistular, or written on the walls of the prison rooms or in the common spaces, the penitentiary departments and the regional provisions can draw from the appropriate expenditure chapters for the conclusion of conventions with the interpreters accredited to the courts.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-776.ana.u15	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-776.ana.u16	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-776.ana.u17	ANGIONES (PD). Madam President, I am pleased with the Secretary's reply for his completeness and articulation. I submitted this question thinking, in particular, of the situation in Sardinia that has two prisons, which were recalled a moment ago by the Undersecretary, who alone host more or less 60% of the alleged jihadist terrorists present in our country's prison system. In his reply, the Undersecretary put a very good picture of a situation in which there is always the possibility of a mix between prisoners entering prison for general offences and prisoners who, on the other hand, enter it for terrorist offences. Even from the words I heard a moment ago, it seems to me that we have a system that inhibits this mixture as much as possible. I would like to raise the question of whether what we do in prison can also be assured in the territories bordering the prisons that host these prisoners, in particular those particularly dangerous prisoners and who have made a name that goes beyond our national borders. Therefore, these data tell us nothing particular, if anything, once again, they pose the theme of further reflection on how we try to anticipate the possible terrorist actions in our country. I would like to make one final comment on a subject that has been addressed in the answer, namely that of translators. I understand - and it seems to me, however, the rather weak aspect of our system - that to date we cannot guarantee a concrete presence of translators even in those prisons. I think it is not enough to leave it to good will but, in any case, to the discretion of those prison systems the possibility of making conventions in a discretionary manner. In the next few weeks I will return to urge the Ministry to address the issue and ensure the presence of translators in times that are as fast as possible. PRESIDENT. - The debate is Question Time on the agenda is thus over.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-776.ana.u18	The motions, questions and questions received by the Presidency will be published in Annex B to today's report.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-776.ana.u19	The Senate will meet again in two public sessions on Tuesday 7 March, the first at 11 a.m. and the second at 4.30 p.m., with the following agenda: (See agenda) The sitting was closed at 16.33 p.m.
