ParlaMint-IT_2017-07-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-863.ana.u1	The sitting is open (9:02 a.m.). The Minutes shall be read. Mr SIBILIA, Secretary, gave a reading of the Minutes of the sitting of the previous day.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-07-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-863.ana.u2	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-07-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-863.ana.u3	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-07-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-863.ana.u4	TOSATO (LN-Aut). Mr President, I would like to ask for the vote on the Minutes, subject to a quorum check. Verification of quorum
ParlaMint-IT_2017-07-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-863.ana.u5	I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators, by electronic procedure. (The request is supported). I therefore call on the senators to make their presence known by electronic means. (Follows the quorum check.) The Senate has a quorum. Resumption of the debate on the Minutes I put the Minutes to the vote. It's approved.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-07-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-863.ana.u6	The list of senators on leave and absent on assignment received from the Senate, as well as further communications to the Assembly, will be published in Annex B to today's Minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-07-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-863.ana.u7	I would warn you that qualified votes can be taken in the course of today's sitting by electronic means. Therefore, from this moment on, the period of 20 minutes from the notice provided for in Article 119 (1) of the Regulation (9:08 a.m.).
ParlaMint-IT_2017-07-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-863.ana.u8	The next item is the continuation of the debate on draft law No 2856. I recall that during yesterday's afternoon session the examination of the articles of the decree-law was concluded.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-07-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-863.ana.u9	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-07-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-863.ana.u10	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-07-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-863.ana.u11	DI GIACOMO (FL (Id-PL, PLI)). Madam President, the bill of conversion of the decree-law on vaccination prevention, at the beginning of the parliamentary procedure, was quite frankly invotable in its original version, so much so that our Group had been led to think of presenting a preliminary constitutionality before and to vote against it. If the objective of the decree-law was to achieve a percentage of vaccine coverage adequate to achieve the so-called immunity of flock and thus avoid the risk of contagion, it was not with coercion by law that would be achieved. Instead, it would have been necessary to inform, communicate and motivate families about the need to vaccinate their children in order to protect themselves and others. This is demonstrated by the fact that it is true that among 28 countries in the European Union 15 have taken the path of mandatory law, but it is equally true that in the other 13 countries this does not happen and - by chance - are those with the highest percentage of prophylaxis. Among other things, the mandatory decree, supported and justified by opinions most often coming from institutions and environments close and adjacent to the Government, and therefore interested, raises more and more of a suspicion. The loss of parental responsibility in the event of non-compliance was then a paradox and absurdity: how can we only imagine to report to the prosecutor of minor parents that, for various reasons, they do not agree on a measure that directly affects the health of their children? How can we only imagine that the educational and judicial institutions of our country can withstand the impact of thousands of reports and related appeals? Another point which, in our opinion, questioned the constitutionality of the measure was the sanctions of the order of thousands of euros. This would have produced two categories of households, distinct and divided by census, class and economic availability: those who could pay the sum up to €7,500 were exempted from the obligation, the others were not. This at a time when ISTAT certifies that in Italy there are 1.6 million families, for a total of 5 million people, who are in a state of absolute poverty, making even more hateful and unacceptable a differentiation of obligations and rights based on the economic availability of families. Finally, the number of vaccinations should be taken into account. There are 12, an abnormal number, some of which are not justified by scientific and epidemiological evidence. These, in short, are the most controversial points that convinced us that it was impossible to vote in favour. Fortunately, the parliamentary path, first in the Commission and then in the House, has profoundly changed the text, making it more adherent to our reality and more useful to achieve the objectives it had set itself, the first of which is to inform families and increase their compliance with vaccination prophylaxis. The obbuse of the withdrawal of parental responsibility in the event of non-compliance has been deleted; instead, parents will be summoned by health companies and informed about the need to adhere to prophylaxis. It is hoped that the Government, even before this happens, will launch an information and awareness campaign in good time, carried out in the appropriate premises and by adequate staff, which has so far been lacking. The total number of vaccines has been reduced, some of which will remain mandatory only for the next three years until clinical and epidemiological verification and re-evaluation. The sanctions have been drastically reduced, in line with the economic availability of the Italians: the new scissors from 100 to 500 euros certainly does not solve the doubt of constitutionality, but at least mitigates its impact and its consequences on the choices that families will be able to make. The possibility of practicing vaccination prophylaxis in pharmacies in the presence of the doctor is to be supported in order to obtain the widest possible coverage. It is therefore hoped that the Government will take due account of the agenda presented and accepted in this regard. Finally, the rapporteur's additional amendment, which takes into account the administration and production of monovalent vaccines and the demand to use increasingly pure vaccines, put another brick in the correction of this measure. All these adjustments have made - in our opinion - the provision of conversion into law of the decree-law much more useful to achieve what is then the objective: increase the vaccine coverage in our country and prevent the epidemic risk. But much remains to be done and we will be vigilant about the continuation of the provision and how the implementing decrees will be written and written. In the light of these considerations, the Federation of Freedom Group will vote in favour. [[Applause from the FL (Id-PL, PLI), AP-CpE-NCD and GAL (DI, GS, MPL, RI).]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-07-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-863.ana.u12	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-07-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-863.ana.u13	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-07-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-863.ana.u14	ROMANI Maurizio (Misto-Idv). Madam President, I would have liked to applaud the Minister at the end of the parliamentary process of this decree-law, but unfortunately I will not be able to, because Italy's problem is the measles epidemic and was therefore sufficient to make this vaccination compulsory. I believe in the usefulness of vaccinations, and just yesterday I was asked to make a donation for polio vaccination. Polio is still present in three countries around the world: Afghanistan, Pakistan and Nigeria. With only 50 euros you can vaccinate 128 children. Imagine, if we all did that, 38,400 children would be vaccinated against polio. And you know what vaccine? With Polioral, live attenuated virus for oral use, such as the example that I had made to you in general question, I, simple homeopathic doctor and senator by chance. Do you know which company produces it? The Chiron of Siena, at a cost of 39 cents for a full cycle for a child. Think how many we could have vaccinated, instead of hiring 20 people at the Ministry and giving the school executives the money they took away. We could have saved a lot of lives and maybe finally eradicated polio. In the bulletin of the World Health Organization we read that the threshold necessary to stop the transmission of an infectious disease depends on the number of basic reproductions, i.e. the number of secondary cases generated by a typical infected and infected person, when the rest of the population is susceptible. And the bulletin quotes as a bibliographical source the book of Anderson and May, whose values have been reported by many audits in the Commission and are 95% only for measles. If we are to stick to scientific evidence, we need to provide evidence that the 95% threshold of cover for obtaining flock immunity corresponds to all infectious diseases. Unfortunately I think that the promoters of the decree-laws the social causes that have caused the lowering of the vaccine cover do not interest and above all do not interest the things that I have said several times, working on the field and talking about this problem with many of my patients for years. Most of the auditors reminded us that we need to listen carefully to parents' concerns and work with communities and health care professionals to create awareness, with the aim that every person can make conscious decisions for himself and his children; the opposite of all kinds of mandatory. It is extremely important to provide information based on real data on the benefits and safety of vaccines, which we do not. Science over the years has taught us to always question our theories and to listen more carefully precisely the hypotheses that deviate most from ours, because it is with the mind open to all opinions and the humble soul that the truth is sought. I have heard many times that it is necessary to remain in the scientific field, but the impression that I have had and that we are giving is that science has put itself at the service, in order to justify political, economic and personal interests. To do this, the side effects of vaccines have been eliminated, perhaps simply not to give rise to contradictory effects on vaccinations. But to say this means to deny that there are people who live on their skin the problem created by vaccination, which is something more than a simple sting, as I have seen on television. This is how the doctor's work, which should be based on the principles of science and conscience, turns into obedience and acceptance of a scientific dogma. I have always defended vaccination practice and I share the principle of the active and free offer of vaccines by the state. But by what scientific principle should I force a patient of mine to vaccinate his child, threatening him not to be able to enter the nest and the motherhood, without worrying about how much this burdens from the social and psychological aspect on both the parent and the child? All this to make me feel more confident that my children or grandchildren are protected because, in addition to vaccination, I forced others to vaccinate. All this in the name of science. In fact, if I don't, I've been held unscientific since I arrived in the Senate, I've felt like a mantra that we have to put the patient at the center of the cure, take care of him instead of just treating the disease, in a word: the medicine centered on the person. It is what I, like many doctors who integrate scientific knowledge with unconventional medicines, do every day in my clinic and - I add - which open and enlightened administrators have placed within hospital companies. If being a scientist means having no doubts, I tell you that I am not a scientist, but I would like this scientific debate to be brought back to the appropriate forums. I would like the academic world, instead of uttering indisputable dogmas, to regain an attitude... [[The microphone is automatically switched off.]] I'll ask you for two minutes. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator Maurizio Romani, we're rigid. He doesn't have two minutes because I already gave him one, so he's got half a minute. ROMANI Maurizio (Misto-Idv). The honest researcher and scientist cannot be content with predigested vellum or slides, without asking questions. Without this decree, parents will go back to parenting, trusting their own doctors and, perhaps, politics and their representatives, of whom I honor to be a part at this time. For all these reasons, my vote and the part of Italy of the Values of the Mixed Group will be contrary to this decree-law. [[Applause from the Mixed Groups, GAL (DI, GS, MPL, RI) and Art.1-MDP]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-07-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-863.ana.u15	I would remind my fellow senators that they have five minutes for explanations of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-07-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-863.ana.u16	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-07-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-863.ana.u17	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-07-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-863.ana.u18	Arrigoni (LN-Aut). Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, Minister Lorenzin, with this decree-law that was to set itself a public health objective, you are breaking the country and also the scientific community. It is not a reasonable decree, but an exaggerated one, forced into measures, messed up, as has been demonstrated in this House. It is a decree that does not listen to parents, that people who are not against vaccines, but it is for transparency, information and free choice. It is the free vax people, who grows every day, who for weeks has been manifesting in many Italian squares, like that of Rome in the last days, and like that of Pesaro, where a huge orange wave made of tens of thousands of families has gathered, but of which no news has spoken, not even those of RAI. I speak to you as the father of two small girls, eight and four years old, whom I have had made to make vaccines, even those recommended, vaccines of which I recognize the importance. Unfortunately, this decree-law - Minister, listen to me - will increase even more the public's distrust of the institutions and - alas - distrust of medicine. (Senator Anitori converses with Minister Lorenzin). Minister, listen to us! [[Protests from Senator Moronese.]] CANDIANI (LN-Aut). But let's be serious! It's not a kid's game! PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator Anitori, please don't distract the Minister. CANDIANI (LN-Aut). Stop! Arrigoni (LN-Aut). Instead of regaining the credibility of the institutions, telling the truth, you are trampling the truth. This decree-law is unacceptable, because it harms the freedom of care of millions of children, because it violates Article 32 of the Constitution, which states that no one can be obliged to a health treatment, except in the presence of a derogation that can exist only in a state of necessity, which is not there today, Minister, since even its Prime Minister Gentiloni said that there is no national health emergency. The epidemiological data do not give a picture of a country hit by epidemics with vaccination numbers in free fall: our covers are similar or even higher than those of other European countries, in fifteen of which - I remember - the obligation of vaccines is not there. And then the covers, even if they were low, are recovered with information and awareness. Is that clear? [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group]] The government supported by the majority is instead holding an arrogant attitude, because it has invented a state of necessity even with false news. Also on health you resorted to the umpteenth narrative telling a reality of your convenience; a narrative destined to collapse like that of migrants, according to which everyone escapes from wars. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group]] On the one hand, Minister Lorenzin, you first invented on television the 270 deaths in London in 2013 due to measles epidemic, then the 200 deaths in the following year, when instead the official data of the British Government report a single death in 2013 and zero in 2014. By jackals was even exploited the dramatic story of the child who died of measles at San Gerardo di Monza, falsely attributing responsibility to the little brothers who were not vaccinated. What a shame! These too - rapporteur Manassero - are fake news. On the other hand, with the complicity of a part of the scientific community that is not completely transparent, you deny adverse reactions, including serious diseases and even deaths, when the Ministry of Health itself and the courts recognize compensation. For you and for Ricciardi, the president of the Higher Institute of Health who should go back to acting [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group]] , the damaged and the vaccine deaths are just ghosts that no one should talk about. This, rapporteur, Mrs Manassero, is disinformation and propaganda that undermines the principle of citizens' safety and certainly contributes to increasing mistrust of vaccines. Yet, there are some damaged, even serious: there are several hundred, recognized over time by you too, Minister Lorenzin. On 15 July 2015, we answered one of our parliamentary questions (Question 4-03638). And then there are dead people who have sentences: like Paola, who died in October 2009 at thirty-seven years old; like Giovanni Matteo, who died in June 2016. I have with me the letters from the Ministry of Health that certify it. Or like little Emiliano, who died only fifteen months ago in February 2003. Those appointed are only some of the deaths documented and recognized with benefits and compensations from the Italian Ministry of Health or courts. But the side effects and irreversible damage from vaccines are forbidden to talk about, because the dominant thought must prevail, which has even come to impose radiation from its own order of critical doctors towards vaccines. Such punishment even exulted the hypervaccinists at Burioni. For you, we must not talk about those vaccines which, through the use of nanotechnology, are found to be polluting, with toxic nanodusts that are not biodegradable, not biocompatible; and I am not just talking about adjuvants. This, Minister, is not anti-science. It is your lack of doubt that concerns you, such as the superficial experiments of vaccines, which show an alarming arrogance. Not to sell the obligatory vaccine for the good of our children and for public health. The reality is that the case of compulsory vaccines is a choice not made in the national interest, but starts from afar. It was decided at the Global Health Security Agenda, in September 2014, in Washington, at the White House where, in the presence of Obama, Minister Lorenzin and the President of Aifa it was decided that for five years Italy would lead the strategies and vaccination campaigns in the world (it is written on the website of its Ministry), thus supporting - I emphasize - the interest of some multinational drug, but on the skin of citizens, indeed children, perhaps with the complicity of some executive of its Ministry in a clear conflict of interest. Irresponsible by the Government to have lent Italy as a guinea pig country. This is serious, given that there is no country in Europe with 12 compulsory vaccines, now reduced to 10, and it is not understood according to what scientific evidence; however, the number remains high, especially if administered in the first months of the child's life! In this sense, the statements made on television by undersecretary Pharaoh - whom I do not see - which said: I do not believe that Italy's experience of compulsory vaccination should also be regarded as a negative fact. Are we crazy? Are we crazy? Experimentation is a serious matter and must be done on a voluntary basis, through an informed consensus, which must follow serious, comprehensive information, which will increase the credibility of the institutions. So you're violating conventional medical standards. So you institutions are sinking them! With the amendment phase the measure has been improved, but it retains all its seriousness: the coercive measures with the obligation of 10 vaccines remain and, therefore, a massive prophylaxis plan, and remains - and this is serious - the exclusion from the nest and from the childhood school of children from zero to six years if they have not been vaccinated. For schools of compulsory education, however, dear Senator Puglisi, elementary and middle school, there is another regime: here it is enough to pay the penalty, for those who can afford it obviously, creating a disparity of census and class. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group]] No! That's not good! Vaccination should not be imposed on children but should be proposed, respecting the parental responsibility to which the State should not replace. The guidelines of a serious measure to pursue the immunity of flock had to pass - not through a decree-law - from a transparent and complete information campaign, aimed at informed consent on the benefits and possible side effects, in order to allow parents to make a conscious choice of adhesion with conviction to the vaccination campaigns; as is being done since 2007 the Veneto Region, with President Zaia, who against your protection has already filed the appeal to the Constitutional Court. It is a model region that Venetian one that, through a correct information campaign, has reached almost 93 percent of vaccine coverage and, above all, has established for some time the regional vaccination Registry. The North League - I repeat - is not against vaccines, but will vote against this bad, illiberal measure - and I address the senators who sit on my left - which has in obligatory - as defined by the rapporteur - its founding pillar, but which for us confirms the existence of a dictatorship of relativism that sees the Democratic Party as one of the main protagonists. [[Senator Mirabelli's comments.]] We will continue to support millions of families well in their battle of civilization and for the good of their and our children. [[Applause from the LN-Aut and Mixed Groups and the Senators De Pin, Dirindin and Taverna.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-07-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-863.ana.u19	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-07-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-863.ana.u20	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-07-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-863.ana.u21	Mr Barani (ALA-SCLP). Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, this is a measure which falls within the category of the most sensitive to the scrutiny of Parliament's classrooms, both because of the technical specificity of the subject and because it fully falls within the scope, in many parts of it, of those measures which affect the relationship between science and ethics, principles and law. And our party has left some senators free to express their disagreement with the Group's position, precisely because the principles of ethics and science are borderline lines. On the one hand, we are talking about the health of citizens - in the specific case of our children or grandchildren - and, on the other hand, about a form of health education that children today will have to do tomorrow, once fathers and grandparents, in turn help to spread. It is, therefore, a subject with so many facets that probably, transferred to a legislative act, will never convince anyone in a full and total way, regardless of the legitimate convictions of each. Given these premises, it would have been perhaps preferable to proceed differently, therefore not through a decree-law - it is always wrong to issue decree-laws - and certainly without that excess of impulsiveness that prompted the Government even to be authorized by the Council of Ministers, confidence that was not then placed thanks to the associationism between Government, Democratic Party/Zanda and Forza Italia/Paolo Romani, like 'Colpo grosso', to mention that famous transmission that also gave notoriety to Senator Paolo Romani. We believe, however, that, rather than a big blow, this is a small plastic surgery: a mastoplasty, which also came very badly. The whole House has shown a constructive spirit, almost always maintained by all the parliamentary groups, in approaching the measure. The text has, in fact, undergone a number of changes, both in the Commission and in the passage to the House, many of which are the result of the agreement between the parties. An agreement, in my opinion, is always legitimate at the time when Parliament is called to vote on a law, less legitimate when it is only a group that makes the pataracchi together with the government, but even more legitimate, in this case, given the importance and impact of the proposed measures. This aspect was also highlighted by Minister Finocchiaro who, thanks to his experience, his rationality, his seriousness and his preparation, managed to resolve a situation of great impasse, last night, which risked having the decree shipwrecked. In fact, in the face of the health policy of Minister Lorenzin there is only to put your hands in the hair. Just think of the many mistakes, but also the many inaccuracies, not to mention lies, about hepatitis C - that, yes, an epidemic - a disease that still affects 1.5 million people every year, 15,000 of which die every year. That is a real epidemic that needed to be dealt with. However, thanks to the government's health policy and the desired contract for hepatitis C, secreted between Aifa and pharmaceutical companies, only 60,000 people are treated, for the reduced amount of 79,000 euros per patient (2.5 billion euros in three years). On this particular point I remember that countries like India are far ahead of us. In this respect, I would like to point out that if the Minister of Health believes that he can leave this House today with a medal in his chest, he is quite mistaken. The changes made to the decree-law, which you have tabled, are many and essential, distorting the original text, making it a measure on which we can at least discuss, and this is a cause for satisfaction for the whole of Parliament. This is a point against the Government, in its complexity, because it wanted to make a decree-law on the health policy of vaccinations while it should not have done so. This has been demonstrated by Parliament, which has completely changed the text. Parental responsibility - a very sensitive subject on which my group too had tabled amendments in the direction of the changes then made - is no small matter. How does a government come to Parliament in front of the Italians to say that it takes away the country's power? But how is that possible? What kind of stuff does he use? Definitely cut wrong! Foreign minors, both in the context of the migratory flows that we live with increasing pressure, and simply considering that just on 29 March a law on unaccompanied minors was passed, it is certainly not a ridiculous issue to be able to escape a Minister. This is also a contribution that Parliament has made by turning the text upside down. The same number of vaccinations to be made compulsory is a fundamental component, like the information interviews for parents who do not have to comply with the vaccination obligation: we have achieved a reduction in the number of compulsory vaccines and we have tried to put what is called informed consent, which is not an invention, but is part of our constitutional structure. Let us remember, in fact, that we are always talking about citizens, for their parenthood certainly subject to special responsibilities, but still citizens who have the right to fully understand what they are doing to their children and what the consequences are. Not subjects who on the skin of their offspring must only submit to the will imposed by a state. In fact, before I spoke of informed consent, which is a cornerstone of medicine. It was also the Senate's decision to drastically reduce the amount of penalties for non-fulfilling parents compared to those provided for in the decree-law in its original wording. Senator Buemi, who refers to a socialist tradition - alas - made the figure equal to that Government: how do you impose on a family of workers, whose culture is lacking, to pay 7,000, 3,500, 1,000 euros when they take 1,000 euros of salary? The most important amendment, which was also called for in a loud voice by the opposition but made through an amendment by the rapporteur (which thus contributed to further disprove Minister Lorenzin), concerns the possibility of administering single-component vaccines. This is a sensible, logical and scientifically coherent choice, which my Group has also decided to embrace with conviction. One of the issues discussed was the possibility of administering vaccines to pharmacies. This eventuality - if God wills - has been rejected for a matter of financial coverage, on the one hand, and for the complaints of those, doctors in the front line, through the National Federation of orders of doctors surgeons and dentists, have strongly insisted on the line according to which the only appropriate place for the vaccination practice is represented by the structures of the local health companies and by the studies of doctors of general medicine and pediatricians of free choice, which constitute a more widespread network and equipped with adequate professional setting, in accordance with the provisions of the LEA. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator Barani, you would have run out of time, but I'll give you a minute. Mr Barani (ALA-SCLP). On the substance, I would like to point out that, as far as the technical and financial aspects are concerned, we cannot economize on the health of citizens, although we have now, in the wake of the populism that has invaded politics on all sides, managed to save even on democracy. As for the health aspect, however, pointing out that my profession is that of the doctor, I simply remind all of you, most of whom my peers, where and how we have been subjected, and many of our children, to vaccinations: mostly in line in the classrooms on horseback of the hours of class. And to think that on this point there was a very strong endorsing of Minister Lorenzin, who evidently ended up in thin air. Perhaps if she hadn't been interested in the matter, it would have been better. In conclusion, that came from the government was a text with few lights and many shadows, that the fruitful work of the Senate, a serious, constructive work, in merit and meticulous, managed to make it brighter. Therefore, despite the still persisting shadow areas, such as the adverse reactions, still equal to 21,000, as AIFA tells us very late, considering positive the change that the Senate has brought to the text of the Government, preannounces the favorable vote of the ALA-Civic Chosen Group for the Liberal and Popular Constitutional. I would ask the Presidency to allow me to deliver the written text of my speech. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. The Presidency authorizes it to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-07-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-863.ana.u22	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote. (Senator Paolo Romani goes to the scranno of Senator Barani to talk to him.) PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. You have the right to do so. WAR (Art. 1-MDP). Madam President, the assessment that the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats will make with regard to the decree-law that we are about to convert today is based on two fundamental premises. Firstly, we are in favour of vaccines. We consider them, as Senator Dirindin mentioned in her speech, an indispensable tool for the prevention of infectious diseases and the containment of morbidity and mortality. Secondly, we do not think that vaccination can always and exclusively be entrusted to the free choice of citizens. In the field of communicable diseases, the choices of individuals have consequences for the community which must be taken into account and may require the use of measures to coerce individual freedom, as are the vaccination obligations. However, the instrument of obligation must never be regarded as the only instrument to be adopted, even when it is considered necessary because of a high risk of contagion. [[Live Senator D'Anna's comments.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-07-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-863.ana.u23	Excuse me a moment, Senator War.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-07-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-863.ana.u24	D'ANNA (ALA-SCLP). (At the address of Senator Paolo Romani). Servant! Masters' courtesan! PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Please stop. Let's be respectful of each other. Please, Senator War. WAR (Art. 1-MDP). That is why we have agreed, and still agree, with the approach set out in the national plan. [[Senator D'Anna's comments at Senator Paolo Romani's address.]] Excuse me, Madam President, can you invite colleagues who are disturbing to go outside? PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator D'Anna, I'll call you back to order. D'ANNA (ALA-SCLP). But call Senator Paolo Romani, who has come to threaten Senator Barani! This kind of courtier! PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. There is no threat from anyone: there is a parliamentary exchange between people. Please! AIROLA (M5S). If we made this scene, he'd already kicked us out. WAR (Art. 1-MDP). Madam President, I would ask you to be able to make up for it.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-07-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-863.ana.u25	You will surely recover him, Senator War. D'ANNA (ALA-SCLP). He threatened Senator Barani! Is the threat also foreseen? PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Stop. I invite Senator Bottici, unique President. - I call the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats. Let us restore the tranquillity of the House. This is a serious debate, a difficult debate. Let us be respectful of each other and show our seriousness. Colleagues, it's everyone's responsibility. I wish Senator Guerra could continue her intervention. [[Senator Mazzoni's comments.]] D'ANNA (ALA-SCLP). Mazzoni, you're a servant! You're a servant! PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator D'Anna, this is your last call. Otherwise, I will have to beg you to leave the Chamber. Please be quiet. Let's move on.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-07-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-863.ana.u26	Madam President, I would ask you to start my speech again because, of course, it is united and so it is not possible to follow its logic.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-07-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-863.ana.u27	Senator Guerra begins now the time of her intervention, which is ten minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-07-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-863.ana.u28	WAR (Art. 1-MDP). Madam President, the assessment that the Group of Article 1, the Democratic and Progressive Movement will make towards the decree that we are voting on today is based on two fundamental premises. The first is that we are in favour of vaccines. We consider them, as Senator Dirindin mentioned in her speech, an indispensable tool for the prevention of infectious diseases and the containment of morbidity and mortality. The second is that we do not think that vaccination can always and exclusively be entrusted to the free choice of citizens. In the field of communicable diseases, the choices of individuals have consequences for the community which must be taken into account and may require the use of measures to coerce individual freedom, as are the vaccination obligations. However, the instrument of obligation must never be regarded as the only instrument to be adopted, even when it is considered necessary because of a high risk of contagion. That is why we have agreed, and still agree, with the approach set out in the National Plan. [[A lively exchange of comments between Senator D'Anna and Senator Viceconte.]] D'ANNA (ALA-SCLP). You're an asshole! VICECONTE (AP-CpE-NCD). But who let him into Parliament? Shame on you! [[Senator D'Anna's comments.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-07-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-863.ana.u29	Senator D'Anna, I would like to call you back for the second time, and I have the record in the Minutes! I invite you to leave the Chamber. Please, the other senators remain silent and we don't exchange offense between senators. Please. Let's keep it high. [[Ironic comments from the M5S Group.]] Are we ready to restore order? I ask the senators to sit in their seats, or to go outside the Chamber and discuss. I want to hear the intervention of Senator Guerra, who will of course recover her time. Senator Guerra, take up your speech from the point where you think it's appropriate. I'll give you the time you need.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-07-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-863.ana.u30	Madam President, thank you. I consider the behaviour of my fellow Members to be very unfair, because they are arguing with each other while another person is intervening. I'll pick it up from here. The instrument of obligation must never be regarded as the only instrument to be adopted, even when it is considered necessary because of a high risk of contagion. For this reason we have shared and still share the approach indicated in the national vaccination prevention plan 2017-2019, approved only a few months ago. An approach based on the idea of accompanying citizens, through health education, information and accountability, to membership as voluntary and always aware as possible, rather than the exercise of coercive power. Unfortunately, the decree-law that we are about to convert today has not been put in continuity with this approach. The most critical and questionable choice was to drastically extend the vaccination obligation, accompanying this choice with the prediction of a sanctioning structure that immediately appeared excessive. The choice made was motivated with reference to the decrease in vaccine cover that (surely for measles) led to below the thresholds considered necessary to avoid compromising immunity of flock. The evidence made available to Parliament for the other seven vaccinations made compulsory, which were then reduced to five, and accompanied by a proper forecast of subsequent monitoring, was not as clear as this. The approach followed then contained inconsistencies, partly remedied in the parliamentary path, such as the failure to extend the new vaccination obligations to people, such as health workers and school workers, who can contribute to the transmission of the infection. The parliamentary path has also been important in introducing other changes, to which several parliamentary groups have participated, including, through the tenacious, punctual and competent work of Senator Dirindin (which I thank), our own: changes which have undoubtedly helped to determine the overall favourable orientation of the Group. I am referring first of all to the reduction of the sanctioning system. It remains the vulnus of the ban on access to children's schools for unimmunised children, which we find strongly opposed, also because the balance between the social and personal costs that can be imposed and the effectiveness that can arise depends dramatically on behalf of the former. Secondly, I would like to mention a set of forecasts which have strengthened and improved the implementation plan for the rules introduced: the vaccination register, on the one hand, and the coordination between ASL and schools in the preparation and transmission of certifications, on the other hand, which we have strongly wanted and which should, in the future, reduce the compliance costs for citizens. These costs were partly mitigated by the introduction of transitional rules. On the other hand, we express dissatisfaction with the compromise reached on single component vaccines, which can only be used as a rule and within the limits of the availability of the service, and which is therefore likely to result in a mere palliative. We consider the openings introduced in relation to pharmacovigilance to be positive, even though they are still timid. These were all important amendments, although they were built outside an organic framework, that framework which was missing from the original drafting of the decree-law. For this reason, in the process of implementing the standard, our supervision and monitoring will be ongoing. It is our belief that reducing compliance costs plays an important role in promoting voluntary participation in vaccines, which we regard as a priority. Other critical considerations deserve the conduct of the parliamentary process: it has been chosen to favour a political agreement outside the majority, with Forza Italia, from which we have been excluded, although we are responsible for the majority. This agreement has, on several occasions, had the taste of exchange rather than that of the right search for an enlargement of consensus: it is evidence, for example, of the bitterness with which, through the preparation of ever new formulations, all rejected by the Committee on Budgets as onerous, to make some gifts to pharmacies, even assuming the administration of vaccines within them. There has been no clarification of the potential conflict of interest, which has been the subject of our urgent question and which has been mentioned and explained in your speech by Senator Dirindin. In conclusion, in expressing the vote in favour of the decree-law by the Group Article 1 - MPD, I must stress that the critical elements to which I referred and, in particular, the concerns raised in some members of the Group by the core choice of the measure, to increase the number of compulsory vaccines from four to ten, have not allowed to reach a full homogeneity of views. These are issues that involve not only scientific and technical assessments, but also deep and subjective convictions, which Group 1 - MDP intends to respect, thus giving full recognition to the expression of dissenting votes. [[Applause from the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and ……]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-07-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-863.ana.u31	Senator Guerra, I apologise again on behalf of the House for the difficulties with which you were able to make your speech.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-07-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-863.ana.u32	On behalf of the Assembly I greet the young members of the Parish of the Nativity of Porta Trento, of the diocese of Padua, and I thank Senator Dalla Zuanna, who invited them to attend our work. [[Applause]] I would like to tell them that sessions are not always so tumultuous and that we can work even without clashes. Welcome!
ParlaMint-IT_2017-07-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-863.ana.u33	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-07-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-863.ana.u34	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-07-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-863.ana.u35	D'Ambrosio Lettieri (GAL (DI, GS, MPL, RI)). Madam President, Madam Minister, ladies and gentlemen, I would have liked this debate to take place in a different climate, while the debate, declarations and assessments have been accompanied by the unpleasant echo of attitudes and even provocations which, as we have seen just now, offer an unupbuilding spectacle of our role. As a member of the Italian Directorate, we have dealt with this measure without prejudice, but not without concern or uncertainty. I say this very clearly: we have dealt with it without prejudice, because we are in favour of doubt generators of truth, but we are strongly opposed, especially when... [[Brusio.]] I would ask my fellow Members on my left to allow my speech to take place.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-07-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-863.ana.u36	Colleagues, I wish I could hear the senator's intervention. D'Ambrosio Lettieri.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-07-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-863.ana.u37	D'Ambrosio Lettieri (GAL (DI, GS, MPL, RI)). As I said, we faced it without prejudice, because we are in favour of the doubts that generate truth, but we are absolutely opposed to the political disputes that feed on insinuations, which convey disinformation and generate confusion and dismay. You see colleagues, a few days ago a mother, who spoke breaking the silence of that huge audience, majority in the country, I dare say, who supports with responsibility the vaccine culture, wrote a letter to President Grasso and asked for a very simple thing (sin that it was asked, because it should be inherent in the habits of this Assembly): she said that a legislator must be endowed with moral qualities that must not wave at the first whisper of the square; she also said that he listened to the scrawl of the Senate words that make the wrists shake and reveal how deep-rooted ignorance and scaramanzia are. These are harsh words, which question our consciences and must move us to understand that, perhaps, we still have the possibility of reconciling the square at the Palace if we here, today, in this House, recover the value and sense of a function at the service of the country and make sure that the mature and responsible debate that is realized in this Assembly is the instrument through which to achieve an objective, beyond the different positions, by warning the country not the issue, but the effort to achieve a common objective on a topic that concerns the health of Italian citizens. That is the attitude we have had. Of course, Madam Minister, as I have said several times in other speeches and in the Commission, a draft law would have been preferable instead of a decree-law, which has an imperative and particularly urgent effect. It would have been better than the centrality of the obligation and sanction if there were a consistent decline in greater responsibility in terms of information, education and dissemination of scientific principles to which we have adhered in the debate and in the construction of corrective amendments. We reasoned without prejudice, because science is not an option. We are convinced that good policy - because good policy exists - accompanies science, accompanies decisions that must be fed and supported by scientific research and by what the competent authorities spread internationally and tell us that vaccination and water purification are the two most extraordinary achievements we have been able to make in recent centuries. As well as the best preventive measure for health protection remains the vaccination measure. There were some critical points, but I have to say that with a tiring debate and a confrontation, sometimes even harsh, some progress has been made. We think about the termination of the obligation after three years, the activation of a monitoring, evaluation and dissemination of adverse events. All this in order to clear the field, because it is not possible to think that you want to hide something from someone: this is offensive only to think of it. We still think of the necessary involvement of the authorities: the Higher Institute of Health, authoritatively chaired and, likewise, the Italian Agency for the Drug. Another critical point was the review of the sanctioning system and I would say that a substantial step has also been taken in this regard. It really seemed to me a heresy to deprive parents of parental responsibility in case of non-compliance with the obligation. The same applies to the reduction of the level of suffering of sanctions. I am still aware of the measures aimed at developing an information, education and training activity, which are indispensable prerequisites because they generate awareness, maturity, mature, conscious, free and responsible choice of our community. Finally, I quote the vaccine coverage for foreign minors, the national registry for careful monitoring and single component vaccines. We could have done more, but we know how complicated the debate has been in some ways. Other prejudices have been expressed on the reservation in the pharmacy of vaccination, on which I do not hold back because I believe it has already been clarified how and how much some interventions are strongly anchored to an enmity towards those who subscribe to amendments in support of the socio-sanitary and welfare role of the pharmacy. Everyone will deal with their consciences and their way of law-making. We are convinced that policy, in order to be a good policy, must necessarily decline the principle of responsibility. To this priority principle we have made ourselves aware that political responsibility, beyond the different positions that we confirm of opposition to the Government in general terms, makes us recognize in vaccination an act intimately linked to the principles of universality and solidarity, because the vaccination of the individual is not only a means of protecting the health of the same, but becomes an indispensable way of covering and guaranteeing the whole community. I conclude by making a heartfelt appeal to the Minister and the Government. Madam Minister, commit the time that will come in all the possibilities that you will have to distil in the country a culture of awareness. Let us move from the culture of obligation to the culture of conscious adherence. In order to do so, we must make a crusade of information all the bigger and more impressive was the voice that rose in the squares by charlatans, children of an absolutely obscurantist and medieval theory that we strongly oppose. For these reasons I express the prudent favorable vote of the member of the senators of Direction Italy. [[Applause from the LAG Group (DI, GS, MPL, RP).]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-07-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-863.ana.u38	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-07-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-863.ana.u39	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-07-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-863.ana.u40	LANIECE (Aut (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT)-PSI-MAIE). Madam President, after the long and complex debate in the Health Commission and in this House, I shall confine myself to taking up two main aspects contained in this vaccination decree, which in fact characterise its scientific and political significance: the need to restore the vaccination obligation and the extension of compulsory vaccinations. The two profiles are closely linked to each other and consequent to the epidemiological data that have been communicated to us, mainly related to a worrying recovery of some infectious diseases for public health in our country and in the world and the reduction unfortunately in Italy in a few years of the vaccine cover. During the debate I also heard a number of speeches by medical colleagues - I am a general medical doctor - who consider the data and the work of the Higher Institute of Health to be insignificant, unreliable and almost trivial. I believe that this attitude is unintelligible. Why challenge only the epidemiological scientific data on vaccines and say absolutely nothing about protocols and scientific documents on metabolic, oncology or prevention diseases? The Higher Institute of Health is either incapable and incompetent, or is it an authoritative and solid institution, as I think? Attitudes cannot be chosen according to political and current needs and the Stamina docet case. I also recall the position and statements of the World Health Organization and UNICEF regarding epidemics affecting children in the world and the need to reinvigorate vaccination campaigns. I also recall the positive attitude of the World Health Organisation towards this measure. Going back to the decree-law, I think there are good reasons to raise your guard on vaccines, as demonstrated by the studies I mentioned. Practically all vaccinations are below the threshold of flock immunity of 95% and, as has already been said, the Italian vaccine covers are among the lowest in Europe: it seems to me that little. The re-introduction of the vaccination obligation - and I think that perhaps in 1999 it would have been better not to eliminate it - is therefore intended to put to the attention of citizens a critical issue that concerns public health, which involves both the smallest and in perspective also the other age groups: it is therefore an obligation in my opinion to be understood not as coercion or heavy limitation of personal freedom, but as a right to health of all citizens, the smallest, the weakest, the sickest and the poorest. Now, among other things, vaccines are free and included in the essential levels of care. This obligation must therefore be ascribed to the rights and duties of citizens towards the public good, as a higher demonstration of the civic sense of the individual towards the community in which he lives, while there is a risk of starting a process of dissolution of the spirit of solidarity proper to a great nation. The interventions provided for in the decree-law in question aimed at the correct information on vaccinations by healthcare professionals to questionable citizens are therefore very positive. Similarly, with regard to the extension of compulsory vaccinations, which is also the subject of citizens' unfounded concern, I note that for years now, thanks to national vaccination plans, children have received 9-10 vaccinations and nothing has happened for decades. This I consider a concrete act aimed at the constant reduction of the most common infectious diseases and their most insidious complications, among other things with indirect benefits for the population groups in which chronic patients, diabetics, heart disease patients, cancer patients, that is, people who will be able to benefit from this result. I would also stress the reduction of costs for medical treatment when there is a population vaccinated, in terms of costs for antibiotics, treatment and hospitalizations, for tens, hundreds of thousands of euros. During the examination in the Commission and in the House, the measure in question has undergone changes called for by several sectors: there has already been talk of the significant reduction in financial penalties, which in any case have a very precise meaning in the area of compulsory treatment and I am not shocked; the possibility of single component vaccinations, for which I personally have some doubts; the elimination of the provision to suspend the country's power in case of resistance to the norm. I would also like to stress the acceptance of Senator Cattaneo's amendment concerning details and changes in the aspects related to disputes and compensation for the vaccination damage, so much so that the title has also been amended. In conclusion, we believe that the measure under consideration, in the light of the scientific data submitted to us (and not those available on Facebook or similar), is necessary for the good and the protection of public health. We reaffirm the absolute validity of vaccinations and their formidable historical role as an indispensable medical act for the most insidious infectious diseases and for the protection of the health of millions of people, also in the light of recent and great migratory movements. As senators of the special self-governments we also attach great importance to the acceptance of the safeguard rule for the Regions and for the Autonomous Provinces of Trento and Bolzano. I often hear concerns about this safeguard rule here; well, for two or three years we have said that our Constitution is the most beautiful in the world and our Special Statutes are not included in the Italian Constitution. We also attach great importance to pharmacovigilance actions reinforced by the Decree-Law, in order to ensure maximum protection of the population against possible adverse effects. I remember that there is no surgery in medicine and surgery that is in danger of complications equal to zero. So, with a light heart, comforted by the memory of scientists like Louis Pasteur and Albert Sabin and precisely with the spirit of the great discoverer of the polio vaccine, who decided to give his patent to all the children of the world, precisely because conscious of the epochal scope of his discovery, not before having thanked Mrs. Minister Lorenzin, for the tenacity he had in carrying out this measure, the president of the 12th Commission De Biasi and rapporteur Manassero, for the important work carried out together with all the Commissioners, announce the vote in favour of the conversion into law of this decree-law on vaccines by the whole Group For the Autonomies-PSI-MAIE. [[Applause from the Aut Groups (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT) - PSI-MAIE and PD.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-07-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-863.ana.u41	We greet the Senator of the State of Louisiana Troy Anthony Carter, present this morning in the gallery. [[Applause]] Senator Carter is accompanied by the mayor of Isola del Liri, who is twinned with the municipality of New Orleans. Good morning, mayor. [[Applause]] I would like to thank Senator Spilabotte, who has made this delegation meet with the Presidency.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-07-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-863.ana.u42	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-07-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-863.ana.u43	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-07-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-863.ana.u44	AELLO (AP-CpE-NCD). Madam President, weird things sometimes happen in this House. For example, if someone thinks differently than another senator, they are subject to unacceptable insults and epithets. This really, as far as we are concerned, is absurd and inconceivable. We believe that in the debate many times there has been art. We have had the opportunity to attend the exhibition of topics that, for the most part, as far as we are concerned, we could define originals, poorly, indeed not supported by scientific bases at all. We say this, as far as we are concerned, not without feeling the duty to point out that paradoxically strange theses have emerged, in a strange climate: theses that prevail over scientific evidence, common sense, the need to ensure collective health. Clear and evident elements of instrumentalization, of mere instrumentalization have emerged. We remain even more convinced, even on the basis of exhausting melines, that only scientific and institutional assessments are to be used, which confirm that there have already been no mercury derivatives in the vaccines on the market, for example, since 2002. In addition, they strongly confirm that the quantities of formaldehyde and aluminium so flagdierate are only minimal, such as to cause absolutely no harm to the health. And, even more, they are much lower in concentration also than what we eat every day or drink with the most known oligomineral waters on the market. There is not a single laboratory test that certifies and demonstrates the presence of heavy metals in even remotely toxic quantities, much less as far as tungsten is concerned, about which we have heard in this House. I went to look at how many cases of vaccine reactions to tungsten and how many consequences of renal failure with tubular necrosis there have been. Well, there's been some unmistakable data, i.e. no case. We do not foment, we do not give wrong news, we do not create dismay without knowledge of scientific bases. [[Applause from Senator Fucksia.]] The safety of vaccines is documented by millions of doses administered, by the constant monitoring of regulatory agencies and also of industry, prior to placing on the market. I would like to give a small example here, Madam President. With regard to the microcomponents present in nature, for example, aluminium has been mentioned. Well, in a three-day infant, we already find the same amount of aluminium as in vaccines. Imagine how much a newborn swallows during his diet. This says a lot about the harmful elements, which we are talking about so much, which should be present in vaccines, such as aluminium. We therefore believe that there are unacceptable paradoxes. It happens, for example, that on the one hand we sometimes push for the use of unfounded drug therapies (we remember the Stamina method, the Di Bella method) so much flattered by the media, with deficit results. We spend, even if this is a problem that we should leave to others, about two billion euros for homeopathic substances and then we reject harmless vaccines, with a really artated misinformation. [[Applause from Senator Fucksia.]] The result of such disinformation is that to date we find ourselves, by chance, with the departments of infectious diseases full, there is no more a free bed. The consequences of this are the increase in costs for the health system, the hardships for families, but especially for those who remain infected. measles, at this precise moment, is endemic in Italy: there are 3,672 cases of measles with three deaths, but no one talks about it. 89 percent of the cases concern non-vacciners, 6 percent even subjects who had only one dose of vaccine. In 41 percent of the cases hospitalization was necessary, with the consequences mentioned above. I believe that it is right to make some clarifications, even on the basis of reports that we find unfair and not truthful that have been reported in this House. I would like to refer, for example, to the report that has been made on the death of a four-month-old child, Madam Minister. Reference is made to a data sheet, in the present case, inserted in 2009 as treatment for anti-convulsive therapy. Six months later the card was updated with death, leading to unknown death; reference is made to a probable sudden death syndrome of the infant (SIDS). The autopsy test did not reveal any causal link with the vaccine, so this is completely wrong news, which has also been so flagrant in this House. What is more, with regard to the withdrawal of the antimeningitis vaccine, to which some Members have referred in this House as proven proof, it should be pointed out that the Food and Drug Administration site reports the withdrawal of a single batch for purely precautionary purposes for an exquisitely mechanical problem in the aseptic filling phase. This is therefore a problem that arose during the preparation phase. This lot is not distributed in Italy and also another lot that was addressed to France has always been withdrawn for mechanical defects. There is therefore no problem in Italy and all withdrawals took place for purely precautionary purposes, without the confirmation of the presence of abnormal substances in vaccines, but due to defects - I repeat - in the preparation cycle. I quote a further inaccuracy, Madam Minister, also to clear the field from the usual exploitations: there are those who accuse Aifa of not providing the data and there are those who accuse Aifa, instead, of providing data that are judged alarming. It's either one or the other. Here, too, the question must be brought back to the principles of correctness and scientific validity. We understand that Aifa provides all the data because its first interest is the protection of collective health. The number of adverse reactions reported in the report represents a whole of everything that has happened in Italy; the data are processed on a scientific basis and do not admit errors. The number of adverse reactions should be read objectively, i.e.: vaccines, considered biological drugs, as well as any other drug can produce side effects; in the case of vaccines, they are recorded punctually by the crying of the child, by the local skin reaction caused almost always by the injection and by anything else. [[Applause from Senator Fucksia.]] Of the deaths reported in the two years 2014-2015, none of them - we repeat, none - from the autopsy results carried out is related to the vaccines. The data collected accurately testifies to the procedural correctness and the absolute safety of vaccines. There are other aberrant things too. We have heard talk in this House of abnormal, atypical immune stimulations, of the presence of human extracts: truly absurd. What scientific support exists in this regard? I believe that one should be ashamed to make such considerations! Sangalli (PD). Good boy. AELLO (AP-CpE-NCD). Let's tell the truth instead. The Office for Europe of the World Health Organization is concerned about the difficult situation that has arisen in Italy, with the spread of measles in an almost serious way and also other diseases preventable by vaccines, which have not been mentioned. Nobody talks, for example, about osteomyelitis hospitalizations or cephalitis resulting from morbilary pathology. The rate of immunization has dropped dramatically. This decree, on the other hand, has not gone unnoticed at international level, so much so that the Director-General of the Regional WHO has expressed his appreciation for the Minister of Health, for the active intervention to protect the health of the community, emphasizing also... DE PIN (GAL (DI, GS, MPL, RI)). Shame! AELLO (AP-CpE-NCD). Madam President, I have never disturbed anyone. This is unacceptable. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator De Pin, please be quiet. AELLO (AP-CpE-NCD). Let us take a look at the main changes introduced during the conversion. In this case we can talk about a constructive debate. With regard to the changes introduced - I am referring first of all to the remodulation of the vaccination obligations - the debate here has been serious and constructive and has made it possible to improve the text. [[Comments from the M5S Group]] establishing that a remodulation of the vaccination obligations may be more adherent to the complex epidemiological situation of the country and, at the same time, more sustainable by the families. The vaccinations have been reduced from twelve to ten. Here too, in the general debate (as you will all remember), we have had the opportunity to make some clarifications. Some of us, for example those who speak to you, had tabled an amendment to increase the number of compulsory vaccines. [[Comments of Senator Pepe]] , but rightly these ten vaccines are extremely necessary [[Comments from the M5S Group]] to protect both the individual and the community. Furthermore, as far as measles are concerned, we must respond - we repeat - to the call of the WHO, which has spoken of the eradication of the disease since 2015, and we are in this state: so let the decree-law come. Hence the choice to consider the tetravalent vaccine to be mandatory, without excluding that this obligation may be terminated in the future, after verifying the necessary vaccine cover. There have therefore been a number of very important amendments which have helped to improve this decree-law. [[Comments of Senator Pepe]] For this reason I would like to thank the President of the Commission, the Minister and all those who have worked to improve it, because it is a measure to guarantee collective health. That is why we shall be voting in favour. [[Applause from the AP-CpE-NCD Group and the Senators De Biasi and Sangalli.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-07-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-863.ana.u45	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-07-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-863.ana.u46	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-07-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-863.ana.u47	PETRAGLIA (Misto-SI-SEL). Madam President, in recent days we have heard the embarrassing speech of Minister Lorenzin. In the war of vaccine populism, you're there fighting for a part. Now it is clear why it has been decided once again to override the role of Parliament, depriving it of ordinary legislative power and imposing a decree-law: a full violation of the Constitution, the right to health, the freedom of conscious choice and that to education; a real cultural and social disaster, a leap back in time and a historical error. [[Applause from Senator De Pin]] We are in favour of vaccines and we are well aware of how fundamental they have been to eradicate fatal diseases, so let us spare ourselves the rhetoric of you do not know how many diseases have been defeated or the stories of human tragedies that unfortunately we all know directly. Vaccines are important public health interventions, which are essential for overcoming the morbidity and mortality of certain infectious diseases and an effective means of prevention. Having to make this premise says a lot about the climate of intolerance, hunting for witches that has developed in our country, a debate from stadium curve (starting from the arguments of the Minister) and only a few, very few, have focused on the merit of the decree. [[Applause from the Mixed Group]] Our debate cannot be trivialized between those who are against vaccines and those who are in favour. The debate in this House, if it had also been heard by the Minister, has been serious and there has been a useful debate, as demonstrated by the few amendments that have been adopted. It will not be a decree-law of the government that will suddenly change the opinion of those who have doubts, skepticism and chose not to vaccinate or do only some vaccines to their children. But state propaganda has chosen this mode of communication to divert attention from a bad decree, expression of the worst health technocracy and highlights the poor condition of a public health service (including vaccination services) that is not able to take responsibility for the health of citizens, but above all to increase awareness of the need for health. This is the heart of the discussion. We will not let ourselves be dragged into any crusade: those we leave to the Minister and to those who, in the majority, chose that war. If vaccines are important, perfect but indispensable, then why did the head of the Health Department not think of a great campaign of communication, information and training aimed at citizens, health workers in the public health service, rather than mocking citizens? We understand that after two failed attempts at Fertility Day campaigns it would have had some difficulty, but it would have been more useful to take charge of the health culture of its citizens. According to the Ministry we are faced with a decrease of the vaccine covers, but no emergency is declared. On the other hand, the same Prime Minister Gentiloni Silveri said there was no emergency. Yet the vaccine covers have been decreasing for some time, but no alarm has been given, perhaps because we are in the physiological decline? The many experts met and heard confirmed that there is no national emergency. In 2011 (also that government was always supported by the party of the Minister) the same decline was recorded on measles, but the fact did not create any shock in politics. So, what happened? Why, since 2003, when the measles plan was put in place, have the data not improved but not even deteriorated? Why have we not implemented a vaccination plan especially for adults if the average age is 27 years? The Minister mentioned thousands of deaths from measles. We'd like to know the source of that data. Why didn't anyone report it? [[Applause from Senators De Pin and Simeoni]] The pediatricians of the national health service have told that the skepticism and mistrust towards vaccines has always existed, even before the birth of no vax, free vax and not only in Italy. The pediatricians, however, have told the deep sense of loneliness because the public national health service has left them alone to take care of parental responsibility as well as the health of the citizens. They failed - but it was impossible - to curb that divide between citizens and science, between citizens and the National Health Service. Why didn't the Minister try to understand the causes by using the World Health Organisation's guidelines? Where and when has the relationship of trust between citizens and science broken, between citizens and the Public Health Service? Why do citizens not feel protected and welcomed by the National Health Service? What broke in the relationship between National Health Service and family doctors? Why have we not been transparent and avoided hiding the adverse events of vaccines by distinguishing between risks and probabilities? Why have we forced the young to multiple excessive doses without giving the possibility and freedom of choice of different times and ways? Having planned single-component doses for immunized patients was certainly a small step forward, but why not predict it for all vaccines? They are important and useful to reassure. Above all, why didn't you choose to campaign against corruption, the interweaving of drug multinationals and health care? This has played an important role in recent years and cannot be played on the health of citizens. [[Applause from Senator Simeoni]] A caring minister to family policies should have known that here we are talking about parental responsibility that cannot be delegated. The State, unless it declares the state of emergency, cannot replace it, but it is a matter of increasing culture and awareness of the need for health and health culture. Sure, all more tiring, but only way if we want to grow sovereign citizens and not subjects citizens, as the so much cited in these days don Milani claimed. But it does not seem to me the path chosen by a Minister who feeds the confrontation and considers doubters and skeptics enemies, not citizens to be taken care of. We would like to ask the Minister how it was intended to make the National Health Service efficient, strengthen it where necessary to fulfil the vaccination obligation. I imagine resources have been provided for hiring nurses, doctors, health personnel, resources for the reopening of territorial offices, consultors who in many areas of our country have been closed or emptied of functions because you have made tremendous cuts in health care. [[Applause from Senators De Pin, Montevecchi and Simeoni]] Where are the resources to cover vaccines? Having written free of charge in the law does not mean that they are not and will not be charged. And with what resources will blood tests be paid to find signs of immunization? If these things aren't there, let's talk about nothing. And luckily, the jump to the pharmacy for a vaccine was averted. Of course, it is the only agenda approved in these four years that does not talk about assessing the opportunity. On the consultors, then, you rejected an amendment of ours that was to activate the vaccination services, and to the consultors simply have the leaflets distributed. The decree-law specifies that the implementation is the responsibility of the Regions, which by virtue of their own autonomous health organization will choose whether to follow the decree-law. Even the payment and the collection of the sanction is the responsibility of the Regions and we are curious to understand what will happen in those Regions that have excluded the use of sanctions, or what will happen in Trentino-Alto Adige, where the statutory autonomy is invoked - rightly - to avoid this decree-law. Too bad their representatives vote for our obligation. [[Applause from the Mixed Group]] It is completely unacceptable that the Minister of Education was able to accept this decree-law and its modalities. We are faced with a clear violation of the right to education; very high is the risk of inhibiting the school already in September to all children who have not made vaccines and who may be in the back of the ASL waiting to make them. It is no coincidence that the Minister Faithful hastened to say "We have announced," without explaining in 48 hours, questioning the constitutional right to study. Do you deny access to childhood school? Seriously. Is this your good school? We would have expected an uprising from the world of school, teachers, ATA staff and school leaders, who will be responsible for monitoring vaccination regularity and, above all, for presenting their vaccination certifications, otherwise paid analysis. Of course, if you live in the Provinces of Trento and Bolzano, there is only a promotion on vaccination memberships. Not to mention the financial penalty that, however small, is the obvious sign that you think of a class society, where whoever has, can everything, and who does not have to suffer. The coercive approach is typical of backward countries, in perfect line with the choice of authoritarian verticalization that we have seen expressed in your proposal for constitutional reform. But perhaps you have quickly forgotten that that reform was rejected by the citizens. It will remain a mystery because the Democratic Party has decided to suffer this decree, wanted by a Minister of another party. The only changes made are under the agreement with Forza Italia that will claim the improvements. The Democratic Party will remain responsible for this mess. I borrow the words of a researcher at the Mario Negri Institute who, commenting on the decree, said: There is a great difference between blind obedience to the rules and enlightened obedience to the critical spirit. We choose the latter. We are not against vaccines, but we will vote against this decree, which only confirms that the Ministry of Health is without government. The Italian Left Group will vote against the measure. [[Applause from the Mixed Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-07-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-863.ana.u48	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-07-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-863.ana.u49	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-07-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-863.ana.u50	TAVERNA (M5S). Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, our experience in Parliament has begun for more than four years and we have seen a lot of it. The workers, officials, assistants, say that a legislature like this has had no precedent. You wanted to turn it into a Constituent: you, who are the tail of decades of abuse of power against the Italian people, until you send us to vote, among rebuilt and renovated majorities, for the sole purpose of not unlocking from an armchair. But you weren't happy. After ringing an endless series of failures (and I remember some of them: the jobs act, the good school, the electoral law, billions and billions to save the banks, the scam to the currents), not contented, you wanted to conclude, as they say in Rome, with the bang. And so you made a beautiful decree-law on the vaccination obligation, which with the climate in the country has had the effect, almost obvious, of a boomerang that we will all pay dearly. You see, indeed, Minister... but, where is the Minister? Forgive me, Madam President. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. She walked away for a second. TAVERNA (M5S). Madam President, these are the explanations of vote! PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. We call her, but I would point out that the government is present in this House. TAVERNA (M5S). Yes, but I don't think Minister Fedeli could be the contact person, even though she somehow supported the measure. It was perhaps more polite that the Minister should remain in the Chamber for the other explanations of vote, even assuming, in a more serious way, the responsibility for what he is combining with the country. However, I shall proceed with my speech: so much so, for those who are the Minister... [[Comments from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-07-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-863.ana.u51	Senator Taverna, I told you we're calling.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-07-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-863.ana.u52	TAVERNA (M5S). Doesn't matter. When someone comes in, they'll tell you. Out of respect for the House and for my fellow Members who have continued to speak. You see, Minister, as you went on television, talking about viruses that infect and kill, shooting random numbers, attributing epidemics in scattered places of the globe and warning us about tetanus, if the immunity of flocks drops, many parents, many Italians who are often distracted, tired of the empty speeches of this policy, have raised their ears. To the Italians you can touch everything, but they continue to have towards their children the immense sense of protection that has made Italian mothers famous in the world, those who know if the son does not feel well from how he bends his head or just looking him in the eyes. Those mothers today are teachers, doctors, graduates and respected professionals, who probably had their child now forty years old because they could not before, since this state did nothing to make them guarantee a world worthy of their children. These mothers, Minister, these parents, who inform themselves, who read, who ask questions, those whom I have heard call vaccine-sceptics (perhaps because of an excessive sense of protection against their children, that sense of protection that you have labeled as ignorance, credulity, graciousness), those parents have asked themselves questions. And you, Minister, answered those questions with the delicacy of a panzer, announcing urbi et orbi that, due to an epidemic of measles, twelve compulsory vaccines would be introduced and that non-vaccined children would not be allowed to nests and mothers. At first, she wanted to take away their right to education too, but then her colleague, Fedeli, sitting next door, told her that she was slightly overreacting! [[Applause from the M5S Group and Senator Pagnoncelli]] And then you opted for the sanction to the parents. But not a small penalty: 7,500 euros, and if not vaccines, I'll take your son away. You're crazy. And what did you expect would happen? You have presented yourself with such a crazy and entrepreneurial decree-law that this House, Minister, has disassembled it piece by piece, certifying - if anything still needed - its total political failure as Minister of Health. [[Applause from the M5S Group and Senators Pagnoncelli and Simeoni]] We remember well his acts as Minister in these five years: he dedicated his activity to noble causes, such as the cut of 4 billion to the National Health Service, he halved the benefits in agreement with the bill of adequacy and also in that case - it's a bit 'his habit - he had begun threatening fines to doctors who had prescribed tests or tests other than those that she had decided to serve; then he dedicated himself to Fertility day and that we had to catch it as a sign, because for her the woman is a ovary shaped as an hourglass that goes in time and the man is a sperm always active until the eighty years. In short, you, Minister, who in these five years should have managed what you are presenting today as a cornerstone of health protection, come to tell us that there is an epidemic of measles in the country and we have not even been able to understand if the epidemic is really there in the end. Let us consider that there is an epidemic of measles. What was a minister supposed to do? You had to make a necessary and urgent measure that alerted the entire population to vaccination for measles in order to protect public health. I tell you more: you could say that you would be given priority to all children, from zero to six years old, to guarantee them access to the nests in total safety. Then he would have to cover all the cohorts until he was sixteen and he would have to ask for the vaccination of all those who belong to the school sector and the health sector, for which you told us instead that there was no money. Vaccinate our children because you can blackmail parents and not vaccinated instead those from whom you expect a vow: you are always strong with the weak, but extremely weak with the strong. [[Applause from the M5S Group and the Senators D'Anna and Simeoni]] Here, Minister, a country expects a serious government to do this when there is an epidemic that can cause death. But you didn't. If something like this really happened in 2017 you couldn't even operate, as I told you, because you're able to impose ten vaccines, but you're not able to guarantee one. In this House we have been told that industrial policies do not favour monovalent vaccines, because they are not economically viable. For you the issue of vaccination for our children is divided between what suits you and what does not suit you and not between what is needed and what is not needed. [[Applause from the M5S Group and the Senators D'Anna and Simeoni]] Minister, I also say to you that perhaps the danger of certain diseases is no longer perceived as such, because they have been eradicated and also thanks to vaccines. But rather than putting the blame on the parents, who according to this state should be doctors, jurists and accountants, because we have to do everything ourselves, you, Minister, would have had to work for this awareness to become so. And he should have done so by informing us, by opening a dialogue. Minister, remove from this decree any coercion and fine. The focus on the problem of falling vaccine covers has been, albeit clumsy, attracted. We keep up everything that concerns the Vaccine Registry, pharmacovigilance, but also the collaboration with the school to collect data more quickly, considering that only today, in 2017, we are talking about a National Registry, so as to ensure that, even in classes where there are fragile subjects, there is the right guarantee of protection. We call the parents who for reasons unknown to you have delayed or omitted a vaccination; we talk to them, understand their reasons and offer our children the respect they deserve. We choose to accompany these parents towards vaccination so that it becomes a conscious choice, a voluntary act. It is the path of the recommendation that has been adopted in all other countries of Europe. Look, Minister, I'll show you this pattern. (Shows a scheme depicting the type of vaccinations planned in Europe.) This was his project: the first column is Italy. You wanted to impose twelve vaccines, unlike the whole of Europe. We would have been the only country in the world. The others in the table are European countries, where there is no obligation, but the recommendation is foreseen and their vaccine covers are better than ours. [[Applause from the M5S Group and Senator Simeoni]] Do you want to know why other governments can afford not to impose vaccinations, but to recommend them and, in this way, achieve such a high percentage of vaccinations? Because their citizens trust the institutions. It's not like that in Italy. Parents are now disoriented by their unanswered questions, an obligation, a fine or the possible loss of children; in short, these parents, having no answers, began to look for them in the newspapers, followed the proceedings of the Chamber and do you know what they saw? They saw a negotiation on the number of vaccines that were important or not: from twelve to ten and you never understood why. The obligation for meningococco does not exist in any European country, but perhaps these were the industrial policies that interested the Italian Government, certainly not those of the protection of the health of our children. And anyway they saw the trade mark negotiation for the pharmacies, as well as the marchetta for the schools, in short the negotiation on the skin of their children. Minister, more authoritative voices than mine have raised doubts in the Commission about the timing and manner of this decree. They have raised doubts about the real need for some of the vaccinations that you are making mandatory. You are taking on the responsibility of every parent, that of wanting the best for your child. Minister, I am telling you honestly: I do not think you have fully understood the seriousness of your action, but every father and mother who sees someone else choosing for their son feels a thrill along her back. I love my son more than anyone in the world and this is an irrefutable reality for every parent. Every day we "put on the scales" what we think is best for our children and every day we make a choice. I freely chose, assuming all responsibility, to vaccinate my son: I chose thinking that the risk he was taking could not be equal to the benefit he would receive; but I chose. Minister, our vote on this measure will be against. A new Parliament will be elected in a few months' time. Please do not be reminded. [[Applause from the M5S Group and Senator Simeoni. Congratulations very much.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-07-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-863.ana.u53	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-07-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-863.ana.u54	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-07-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-863.ana.u55	MALAN (FI-PdL XVII). Madam President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, the decree on an emergency should unite the Italians and therefore also the senators who represent them, and the opposite has happened: polemics in the country, a climate of confrontation, sometimes even in this House, opinions of scientific institutions questioned and more. It is an unprecedented situation, which has rightly expressed itself with thousands of messages and phone calls to each of us. All this has happened and is still happening, because the decree-law under consideration was born badly. I would like to remind you of what the original text, which has been submitted to the Commission and which, since it is a decree-law, is still in force. It provided for the obligation, unique in the world, relating to 12 vaccines, fines up to EUR 7,500 and, indeed, the risk of losing parental responsibility, through the intervention of the court for minors, with an extreme measure, which should be used only in very serious cases and certainly not in relation to parents, who certainly take care of the well-being of their children. It was, in short, a punitive text, which chose the repressive route, rather than that of dialogue, transparency and scientific information. Then came the usual threat of trust, which would have shut everyone's mouth - majority and opposition - and would have prevented improvements in this House, although widely shared. In this context it is clear that it would have been easy for us at Forza Italia to confine ourselves to opposition: to vote no to trust, as we have always done, and to denounce the many problems and defects - even serious - that contained this decree-law. We could tell those who share the intention of the measure to have voted against because of the question of trust and, to those who oppose it, to have accepted their requests, but for Italians, parents and children we would not have achieved anything, no improvement of the rules and not even the opportunity to talk about it effectively. We have then chosen a more complicated way, certainly less easy for us, but we believe much more useful for the country, for the health of Italians and all children. We have assumed the responsibility of those who represent the people and must bring the best possible results, even before waving this or that flag. We felt that we had to prevent two opposite dangers. The first is that a law was passed, which, by its wrong approach, risked producing effects opposite to those desired. The second is that a possible rejection of this law would pass between Italians the message that, according to Parliament, it is not good to vaccinate. One thing on which I think we all agree, despite the distinctions, is that it is good to vaccinate. It is also good to remember that not all protesters are no vaxes, but they are people who ask for changes and attention to particular cases. We have thus obtained, first of all, that the Government and the majority should discuss with us, because we think that on such an important measure we cannot decide with a single vote because of the question of trust, especially when there are so many critical issues and there is so much attention in the country: this of course should not apply only to vaccines, but, unfortunately, in other cases it has not been so. Forza Italia is in favour of vaccinations. We consider vaccines to be a fundamental garrison for the health of our children. This is confirmed by Italian and European history, where diseases that made a huge number of victims have almost disappeared and the average life has increased by decades. Of course, there have not only been vaccines, but there has also been further progress and a general improvement in the quality of life. In the Third World, however, where, unfortunately, quality of life is still very low, there have been huge positive effects and millions of lives have been saved by vaccines. Be careful, then, to discredit this practice. We also respect those who are completely opposed to vaccines, but be careful to spread unjustified fears among the vast majority of people who, by vaccinating themselves and their children, also protect those who cannot or do not want to do so. However, as it was written, the provision for our examination was unfair in many respects and counterproductive. We then met with the parents' associations, we listened to their reasons, we worked, we made proposals, we discussed for a long time and we got a lot, even if not everything we wanted. We have been able to change the mainly sanctioning approach originally in place, so today with the text that we are about to approve, before imposing any sanction there is an obligation on the ASL to summon the family, to explain the reasons for vaccination, to provide scientific data and, only after that, to evaluate possible sanctions. All of this was done with an amendment voted unanimously that would not even be taken into account with the imposition of confidence. The same sanctions have been severely reduced; they are now between 100 and 500 euros, very close to the one already in force before, and 15 times less than that that that would have come into force with the original approach of the decree-law. We also included unaccompanied foreign minors in the scope of the obligation, who, with an increase in vaccination obligations, had to be appointed specifically, not least because they were not responsible for them to be subject to sanctions. Finally, we have managed to achieve another measure that we consider logical and important: even people who are in constant contact with our children, in schools and hospitals, must declare their vaccination coverage situation. It is not understandable in fact that all Italian families are forced to vaccinate their children and then it is not even known if the teacher or pediatrician with whom they come in contact can represent a vehicle of contagion. The measure was in short profoundly modified, giving many answers to the doubts of the Italians. However, there are still some aspects that convince us little. First of all, there is a huge burden on healthcare companies: hundreds of thousands of girls and children, girls and boys, to be vaccinated in a very short time, without any help and no further funding. So let us say straight away that we have called for a postponement of the deadlines, for the effective entry into force of the obligation, providing for a first period only a strong recommendation and data collection. You wanted to maintain a text where the obligation is almost immediate. We know that already today the regions and the ASLs, especially some, have difficulties in implementing the rules previously envisaged. Late letters are already being sent to people who have had their children vaccinated and told them that they had them vaccinated; I fear that they will come with an even greater delay to those who have not had their children vaccinated. There is also the issue of single component vaccines raised with amendments tabled by my Group, but also by others. A rapporteur's amendment has also been adopted, which raises the problem, recalling the right not to have to revenge those who are immune to the disease for some reason; however, the instruments are not provided to make this happen. This issue will also have to be examined in greater depth. We had asked for a more flexible timetable from the beginning, avoiding that the elasticity of the vaccination calendar was determined by the inability and impossibility of the ASL to implement what the law provides. I would like to stress one aspect: vaccination coverage in Italy is not enough and is constantly falling in recent years; the same decline occurs both in compulsory and non-compulsory vaccinations. Would it not have been better then to start at least three years ago, when the first drop in coverage was recorded to worry seriously and to check that the vaccination chain worked, investing more on information and knowledge, rather than intervening lately on the basis of sanctions and repression? We therefore do not exclude and, indeed, we hope that further changes will be made in the coming months in the light of the practical difficulties in implementing parts of the decree-law. We hope that aspects that agendas and amendments will be fully implemented and have introduced with reference to the need for an adequate collection of adverse reactions, the attention of pediatricians in assessing special situations that suggest that vaccination should be postponed (e.g. in case of premature or underweight children). Madam President, I should like to conclude by making a general point. The Senate, although in a situation of excessive haste, has shown that it can still do its work, that is, give space and voice in the provision to the various opinions and sensibilities present in the Italian people. There have been some problems, even procedural ones, perhaps because the habit of doing our work has been somewhat lost and, that is, to elaborate the laws also through moments of confrontation and dialogue. This is a response to those who want to annihilate Parliament by measuring its effectiveness from the speed with which it takes decisions taken elsewhere and who, with various campaigns, which we have seen for years and even these days, are trying to reduce its scope further. With all its limitations and shortcomings, Parliament is the only place where the opinions of citizens have their direct bearing on decisions that involve everyone. Forza Italia claims to have made this discussion possible, to have greatly improved the measure by laying the premises for better vaccine coverage for the benefit of all, even of the non-vacciners, decisively reducing the weight on those who make different choices. That is why Forza Italia will vote in favour of this measure. [[Applause from Senators Cassinelli and Gasparri. Senator Rizzotti's comments at the address of the Minister of Health.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-07-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-863.ana.u56	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-07-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-863.ana.u57	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-07-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-863.ana.u58	DE BIASI (PD). Madam President, this is not the first time in this House that we have discussed an important issue, the relationship between nature and culture. That's enough for everyone in the Stamina case, which you've seen in this. This House is a moment of great danger, foiled by an in-depth work of knowledge and analysis and a return to the decisions taken. [[Applause from the PD Group and Senator Buemi]] The birth of the science of modern medicine has clarified the interpretative structures of this relationship. There is no nature that can replace scientific progress, unless we want to stop research. Perhaps someone wants this or even wants to ban glasses because they are a prosthesis against nature. If we then think about what happened since Jenner did the first vaccination and what happened before, we realize that before - I say this to a senator who intervened saying extravagant things - the vaccines were made using human tissues of smallpox and people died while after it was used an animal substance, which comes from cows - from which the word "vaccine" is, I say it so we all know - that he put things back and made sure that the safety of vaccines improved decidedly from day to day and from century to century. Today we can say that vaccinations are enormously safer even if only compared to ten years ago. So, I find it absurd to say - wrong and serious - that in this decree-law an experiment is made on children. It is a very serious thing that has been said: there is no experimentation. Vaccines are safe and tested in the world every day. [[Applause from the PD and Aut groups (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT) - PSI-MAIE]] That is what Senator Cattaneo said: 500 million people have not died and 25 million people will not die because children are vaccinated. Let's leave it at other times, to which perhaps those who are against science would also like to return. Do not say that for this reason we are connected with the pharmaceutical companies: these are clamorous lies, insults, insults, slanders that someone will also pay from the criminal point of view, because it is too easy to slander to support their thesis. Moreover, on Facebook, among other beautiful messages of insults and threats, I was also addressed a statement: The immunity of flock, dear lady, is denied by the scientific community. But what scientific community? Wakefield's? The one who said that vaccines bring autism? Is that the scientific community? Is that your friend behind the house? Is it someone who takes money so the vaccines don't go on? Let's ask ourselves that. [[Applause from Senator Fucksia]] You have all read that today the World Health Organization is launching a new alarm on Italy, a further reminder following that of the European Union and that bad statement from the United States that they told their fellow citizens not to go on holiday in Italy because there is measles. Is that what we want? [[Senator Serra's comments.]] WHO data tells us that Italy is below 86 percent with measles coverage. The immunity of flock serves for the most fragile children, for those who cannot be vaccinated, for those who are certainly not defended from personal interests. [[Applause from the PD and Aut groups (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT) - PSI-MAIE)]] . We saw what happened to the water polo team. I'm told they're adults, but those adults were children, and if they were vaccinated today, they wouldn't have measles. If the vaccines had been made before we would not have those 700 people who could have been infected in that hotel, we would not have a national water polo team decimated, nor the wards of hospitals full of measles cases. [[Applause from Senators Filippin and Buemi]] We were all children; notoriously we grow up and if we had vaccinated ourselves before these things would not have happened. Moving on to obligatoryness, we know - it is worth remembering - that this was in Italy until 1999, then it was removed. Everyone can think what they want, but I would just like to say that since 1999 the world has changed and medicine has to adapt to the changes of the world. Science serves this purpose: to speak of the world as it is today, not as we would like it or as it was yesterday. So let's think about globalization and the contacts that have multiplied, but not only the migrants because the rich cry and even the rich bring diseases, I don't know if it's clear, I tell who thinks the problem is only the vaccination of migrants. [[Applause from the PD and Aut groups (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT) - PSI-MAIE)]] Why was there nothing in this debate about the malaria vaccine? Why are they made of Africa naturally, yet there has been a decimation for malaria there; then vaccines are safe there and not here? Something's not working. It is a social selfishness that in our time becomes global selfishness. There are fears that grow over everything in this terrible twenty years that we are going through, in the difficult relationship between freedom and security, between State intervention and individual sphere. In such a deregulated world, the points of reference are fundamental, because they guide us in our choices. Vaccines, then, are safe. The data from Aifa are very clear: none of the deaths reported in the two-year period and which occurred in time with vaccination were related to the suspected vaccine. Is that clear? There is no relationship. Vaccines must be made and made in the first phase of life. Vaccines protect collective health: it is not enough to say "my child" because destiny is common and responsibility is collective [[Applause from the PD Group and Senators Buemi and Anitori]] When the freedom not to vaccinate harms the freedom of those who do not want to be infected, then mandatoryness is absolutely the only possible choice. Vaccines must be compulsory again. Today's adults were children yesterday and we certainly cannot wait for changes in industrial policies: we must act now. The decree-law has changed and improved a lot, and it is normal to do so, because this is the role of Parliament, let us not forget it. We do not ratify: we work and change, if necessary; it is our constitutional role. First: different modulation of the obligatoryness and involvement of the Regions. In this regard, let me say that Veneto is not exactly right: measles 89 percent, mumps 89 percent, rubella 89 percent, chickenpox 85.5 percent. So what are we gonna tell them? [[Applause from the PD Group and Senator Buemi]] Two: strengthening of the drug surveillance, in a clear and rigid way. Three: lowering of sanctions. Four: elimination of the recourse to the subtraction of the country's power. Five: Establishment of the National Vaccine Registry. Six: races also for monocomponents and their use only in certified cases of immunization occurred for other diseases present in the combined vaccines. Seven: Attention to the right to health of unaccompanied minors. Eight: Attention to the right to health of school workers and health workers. For this reason, because we have changed it so much, I would like to thank the rapporteur and the Commission who I have the honour to chair, Mrs Minister and the Offices, for a very difficult job done with self-denial. A fine example of civil and moral duty, even for those who did not agree, because we went forward together and together we led this provision into port. Cultivating doubt helps to rationalize fears and to deliberate in an informed way, but cultivating suspicion is another thing from cultivating doubt [[Applause from the PD and Aut groups (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT) - PSI-MAIE]] : it is to decide that everything is rotten and that behind every choice there is an occult interest; thus mutual respect fails. In history we even had in Italy the house spy, who went, saw how people lived and then said "I think that there does that thing," without evidence and without anything. And then, if there is evidence, there are proper locations, there is the prosecutor of the Republic, there are institutional offices and inspection unions. But do not be alarmed, in addition to the nefariousness that has been said on social media. We're good people; we're good people in PD! [[Applause from the PD and Aut groups (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT) - PSI-MAIE]] And not just us PD, of course. We're decent people here. We talk to all families, not just those families whose fears are used by those who are opposed to vaccinations. We also want to talk to trusting families, who know that the National Health Service protects them and their children, and that they are over 80% of this population. That same trust that the PD has, that votes this decree-law with scientific, moral and political conviction. We're the ones who say no vax: Get your hands off the kids. [[Applause from the PD, AP-CpE-NCD and Aut groups (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT) - PSI-MAIE]] All the children of all families, not just the ones who protest. We will monitor information, training, controls and implementation, with guidelines to be issued by the relevant ministries. If my neighbor's house burns, says an African proverb, I am interested in this: this is the principle of health in the global world, that of the common destiny of humanity. [[Applause from the PD, AP-CpE-NCD, Aut (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT)-PSI-MAIE groups and Senator Fucksia. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-07-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-863.ana.u59	I would warn the House that, as there are eight dissenting speakers from its Group, one minute will be allowed to speak. Adjust well, for the word will not be granted beyond this time.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-07-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-863.ana.u60	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote in dissent from my Group.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-07-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-863.ana.u61	I take note of that and give you the floor.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-07-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-863.ana.u62	DE PIN (GAL (DI, GS, MPL, RI)). Madam President, Mr Minister, to date in Italy the Constitution, fortunately, is still the most important charter, which regulates or should regulate the legal and social life of this country. His decree-law is absolutely unconstitutional and I am not the one to say it, but they will be armed with lawyers who are aggressive against this decree-law, who will appeal to the Constitutional Court and will be supported by the Swedish NHF, which deals with the defence of human rights. I mentioned Sweden because Glaxo was kicked out of Sweden precisely because of human rights violations, because she wanted to apply pilot experiments on the subject of vaccination, but was promptly kicked out by the Swedish Minister of Health. Another story here in Italy. [[Senator Cardinal's comments.]] But let's go with order and talk about the Minister's trip to America in September 2014... [[The microphone is automatically switched off.]] Thirty more seconds, ma'am! PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. No, I gave you a minute, deliver the text of your speech. DE PIN (GAL (DI, GS, MPL, RI)). Please, 30 seconds! PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. You've spoken several times, Senator De Pin. I said I'd give everyone a minute. Deliver the text of your speech, so that it is annexed to the report, the Presidency will authorise it to do so. DE PIN (GAL (DI, GS, MPL, RI)). I have something important to say.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-07-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-863.ana.u63	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote in dissent from my Group.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-07-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-863.ana.u64	I take note of that and give you the floor.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-07-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-863.ana.u65	ISGRO CHOLIPOTI' (FI-PdL XVII). Madam President, one minute, however, must be a real minute. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. It's a minute. ISGRO CHOLIPOTI' (FI-PdL XVII). Madam President, I consider everyone in this House to be very good fathers of family... DE PIN (GAL (DI, GS, MPL, RI)). It's a dictatorship! Let me talk! She won't let me talk! Let me talk! PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator De Pin, please close this play. You have spoken many times, we have all heard you many times, and now you have spoken in dissent from your Group. I said I would give everyone a minute, don't force me to get you out of the Chamber. You have had time, Senator; deliver the text of your speech and it will be appended to the Report. Please, let's all cooperate. Please, Senator Scilipoti Isgrò, start again. ISGRO CHOLIPOTI' (FI-PdL XVII). Madam President, I would like to point out that we are all here for vaccines and I want to say that in this House I consider the people present to be excellent fathers of the family and good mothers of the family. Having said that, I want to make a thought and I want to hand it over to all my colleagues, explaining what our reproach is. Since we buy products and pay for them to be of high quality and safe, we asked that there should be no additives in vaccines: preservatives, particles, nanoparticles and other substances that could cause harm to our children. What does it cost the Minister to say that he will endeavour to ensure that the products are of high quality and that they do not contain substances that could harm the health of the citizens? [[The microphone is automatically switched off. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-07-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-863.ana.u66	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote in dissent from my Group.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-07-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-863.ana.u67	I take note of that and give you the floor.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-07-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-863.ana.u68	Zuffada (FI-PdL XVII). Madam President, I would like to repeat that I shared the statement made by our group leader Lucio Malan in his explanation of vote because he made a correct analysis of the history of this decree-law. In view of the great difficulties that have already arisen in the debate in the Commission, I am surprised that the same amendments tabled to the Commission by the Forza Italia Group were rejected and that only subsequently there was the willingness to consider them. Without prejudice to the fact that we are in favour of sharing and convincing people and not obliging them, I am surprised that the PD representative is demanding the role of this Parliament in the debate; a pity that this Government has never given Parliament the opportunity to discuss... [[The microphone is automatically switched off.]] For these reasons, my vote is abstention.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-07-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-863.ana.u69	If it had not been understood, Senator Zuffada announced his abstention vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-07-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-863.ana.u70	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote in dissent from my Group.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-07-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-863.ana.u71	I take note of that and give you the floor.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-07-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-863.ana.u72	SMALL (FI-PdL XVII). Madam President, I am voting against. I am opposed to the choice of the regulatory instrument used. [[Applause from Senators Volpi and De Pin.]] There is no emergency with regard to the cover so much as to resort to a decree-law that imposes the obligation, in respect of which I declare totally in disagreement. [[Applause from Senator De Pin.]] DE PIN (GAL (DI, GS, MPL, RI)). Bravo! SMALL (FI-PdL XVII). Among other things, in my opinion, the decree-law is totally devoid of concreteness with regard to the organizational aspects and the commitment of personnel necessary for its implementation, and it is also completely devoid of the substantial and necessary financial cover.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-07-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-863.ana.u73	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote in dissent from my Group.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-07-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-863.ana.u74	I take note of that and give you the floor.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-07-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-863.ana.u75	AMIDEI (FI-PdL XVII). Madam President, I am voting against, but in fact it is not a dissenting vote by my Group, which I thank for the great contribution that has led to the improvement of the law. Mine is a vote against a decree-law, Mrs. Minister, that gets a contrary effect, of no sense: it had to raise people's awareness to vaccinate and instead it will get the opposite effect! Do you think it makes sense to make such a law? Faced with the usefulness of vaccines, it has created a contrary effect. We'll take stock of your ministry and this decree-law, and it'll be absolutely negative. So I vote against your decree-law, Mrs. Minister, because on vaccines, which are a useful thing, it has managed to raise doubts in a large part of the population. Congratulations, Minister! [[Applause from the Mixed Groups and LAGs (DI, GS, MPL, RI) and Senator Stefani.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-07-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-863.ana.u76	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote in dissent from my Group.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-07-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-863.ana.u77	I take note of that and give you the floor.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-07-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-863.ana.u78	D'ANNA (ALA-SCLP). Madam President, in a minute we can say nothing, but you have the logic of numbers and we must submit to you. I give the Presidency a study done under the electronic X-ray microscope with its spectrometer, of which I have already paid tribute to some doctors whom I consider to be a person of science. But let the party officials say "dogfish" [[Applause from Senator De Pin]] who defend science, I don't accept that. I'll also get a copy of it to Professor Cattaneo, who is a woman of science and knows that with electronic X-ray microscopy and spectrometry she is not wrong. Someday someone will blame you for being ignorant and overbearing at the same time, because the nanoparticles... [[The microphone is automatically switched off.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-07-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-863.ana.u79	Senator D'Anna, I'm sorry, but that applies to everyone. [[Senator D'Anna's comments.]] Listen, Senator D'Anna. You have spoken for a long time in recent days, so you cannot say that we have taken away your right to express your opinion. You had a minute like the others. Tell us how you intend to vote. D'ANNA (ALA-SCLP). My vote will be against. [[Comments from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-07-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-863.ana.u80	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote in dissent from my Group.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-07-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-863.ana.u81	I take note of that and give you the floor.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-07-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-863.ana.u82	DIRINDIN (Art. 1-MDP). Madam President, while I recognise the many small improvements that have been made during the debate in the Commission and in this House, I can only vote against the measure for two reasons. Firstly, because obligations and sanctions are the most archaic form of health education and health prevention. [[Applause from the Groups Art. 1-MDP, M5S and Misto, and Senator De Pin.]] They should only be resorted to in cases of close need. Here, however, we went too far. Secondly, not a word and not a euro have been dedicated to strengthening vaccination services: this means not having at heart the functioning of the service. I would like public health which respects the right of citizens not to be treated by subjects who obey uncritically. [[Applause from the Groups Art. 1-MDP, M5S and Misto, and Senator De Pin.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-07-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-863.ana.u83	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote in dissent from my Group.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-07-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-863.ana.u84	I take note of that and give you the floor.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-07-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-863.ana.u85	LANGELLA (ALA-SCLP). Madam President, I would like to speak briefly to announce my vote against the measure, making a brief premise: I have never spoken in the debate, and I do not say this to buy time but to be precise. I came to this House with so much respect to listen to the reasons, because, as a parent and as a grandfather, I had to continue to vaccinate the grandchildren, having already vaccinated the children. I'm not convinced of the arguments. I think it's an ethical state's argument. I have listened carefully to my fellow Members raise great concerns about the quality and number of compulsory vaccines. At the same time, part of the majority reiterated, with arguments that did not convince me, that all children not vaccinated potentially could cause an epidemic... [[The microphone automatically switches off]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-07-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-863.ana.u86	Senator Langella, thank you for your soft tone. That is why, and the fact that it has never actually intervened, I give you half a second more to close.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-07-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-863.ana.u87	[[Protests from the PD Group]] LANGELLA (ALA-SCLP). I thank you for your kindness, Mr President, and my colleagues for putting up with me. I just wanted to make an explanation of vote. It does not seem to me that such an extra short time costs you so much. That was the overkill I was talking about, and that is why my vote on the bill on our examination will be against it.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-07-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-863.ana.u88	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote in dissent from my Group.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-07-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-863.ana.u89	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-07-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-863.ana.u90	FLORIS (FI-PdL XVII). Madam President, my vote is certainly not in complete disagreement with what Senator Malan said. My vote is in disagreement, because I consider this measure difficult to apply given the lack of resources allocated to the regions that will then have to apply the rules and especially to ASL, as well as for the school sector that will certainly have difficulty in implementing this decree-law. It is too easy to download to regions, ASLs and schools what this decree does not contain, that is, sufficient resources for it to be applied. For the rest, everyone knows that I am in favour of vaccinations, so my vote will be a non-vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-07-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-863.ana.u91	We have concluded the dissenting explanations of vote. Before we proceed to the final vote, I warn you that a proposal for coordination tabled by the rapporteur, which is intended to be presented, has been tabled and is being distributed. [[Comments of Senator Scilipoti Isgrò]] Senator Scilipoti Isgrò, the coordination proposal is an absolutely technical element.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-07-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-863.ana.u92	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-07-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-863.ana.u93	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-07-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-863.ana.u94	SANTANGELO (M5S). Madam President, the coordination of the text is a document that needs to be read and we therefore demand that it be delivered in writing to all the senators. We also call for a simultaneous vote to be taken by electronic means, so that citizens outside can really understand what you are voting on, and I also ask for Members of the PD. [[Live comments from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-07-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-863.ana.u95	I ask the Senator Secretary to read the proposal for coordination Cl (text 2).
ParlaMint-IT_2017-07-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-863.ana.u96	In Article 1: (a) in paragraph 4: 1) in the first period, introduced by amendment 1,110 (text3), replace the words: "the entrusted persons" with the following: "the entrusted persons" 2. in the second period, as amended by Amendments Nos 1,110 (text 3), 1,116 and 1,112 (text 3), delete the words: 3. in the third period, replace the words: "in the first period" by the following: "in the second period" (in the second period); (b) replace the heading by the following: Provisions relating to vaccines Finally, in Article 5, add the words 'finals' to the heading.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-07-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-863.ana.u97	Pursuant to Rule 103 (5) of the Rules of Procedure, I put to the vote the proposal for coordination C1 (text 2) tabled by the rapporteur. It's approved. We shall now proceed to the final vote. SANTANGELO (M5S). We call for the vote to be taken by simultaneous ballot by electronic means. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). CARDINALI (PD). President, Senator Arrigoni is filming with the phone. Put it away! You don't have to! Mr Albano (PD). Stop taking pictures! PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Please, the senators. quaestors stop taking photos. I refer to the nominal vote by simultaneous ballot of the bill, composed of only Article 1, in the amended text, with the following title: Conversion into law, with amendments, of Decree-Law No 73 of 7 June 2017, with urgent provisions on vaccination prevention. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. [[See Annex B. Applause from the PD, Aut (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT) - PSI-MAIE) and AP-CpE-NCD Groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-07-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-863.ana.u98	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-07-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-863.ana.u99	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-07-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-863.ana.u100	VICECONTE (AP-CpE-NCD). Madam President, I would just like to point out that my system has not worked and that my vote is in favour.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-07-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-863.ana.u101	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-07-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-863.ana.u102	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-07-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-863.ana.u103	Arrigoni (LN-Aut). Madam President, I too am speaking for the same signal, but my vote is against.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-07-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-863.ana.u104	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-07-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-863.ana.u105	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-07-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-863.ana.u106	MANCUSO (AP-CpE-NCD). Madam President, I am only saying that I was wrong to vote. My vote is in favour.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-07-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-863.ana.u107	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-07-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-863.ana.u108	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-07-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-863.ana.u109	ISGRO CHOLIPOTI' (FI-PdL XVII). Madam President, my device didn't work either. Stay on record for my vote against. [[Comments from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-07-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-863.ana.u110	The Presidency takes note of this.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-07-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-863.ana.u111	11:33 a.m.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-07-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-863.ana.u112	The next item is the resolution on the opinion of the 1st standing Commission, pursuant to Rule 78 (3) of the Rules of Procedure, on the existence of the conditions of necessity and urgency required by the second paragraph of Article 77 of the Constitution, as well as the requirements laid down by the legislation in force, for the draft law n. 2879: Conversion into law, with amendments, of Decree-Law No 99 of 25 June 2017 laying down urgent provisions for the compulsory administrative winding-up of Banca Popolare di Vicenza S.p.A. and of Veneto Banca S.p.A. At yesterday's sitting, the first standing Commission gave a favourable opinion on the existence of these conditions and requirements. Subsequently, by the prescribed number of senators, the vote of the Assembly was requested on that opinion. I'm asking the extensor of the opinion, Senator Maran, if you're going to intervene.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-07-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-863.ana.u113	Mr President, I have no integration to do. I am referring to the opinion that recognised the existence of the conditions laid down in Article 77 of the Constitution.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-07-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-863.ana.u114	I would remind you that you will be able to speak no more than one representative per Group for no more than ten minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-07-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-863.ana.u115	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-07-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-863.ana.u116	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-07-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-863.ana.u117	STEFANI (LN-Aut). Mr President, after this confusing sitting in which a very delicate decree-law was discussed, we are now changing the subject. Unfortunately, however, majority and government continue in their attitude and persevere in their conduct. We are faced with a decree-law that, for the umpteenth time, affects the structure of Banca Popolare di Vicenza and Veneto Banca. Over the years there has been a succession of rules in the banking sector that have led to the result that we all know, together with the conduct of a leadership that has guided its activity and led to a bad management, if not even to criminal and criminal profiles. We are faced with a decree-law that violates at least thirty of the rules of the Constitution, including tax, civil and bankruptcy law, as well as European competition directives. Today we come to see the de facto delivery of the credit monopoly of an entire Region strategic for the national economy, such as Veneto. We are going to deliver the credit to a single bank, obtaining almost 900 new branches and a set of facilities of the credit institution as a gift, as well as a building heritage. Firstly, with regard to the requirements of necessity and urgency to intervene on Banca Popolare di Vicenza, we note that these had already existed for three, four years. Already at the beginning that rule, absolutely irresponsible, which imposed the obligation of stock exchange listing for popular banks, including Veneto Banca and Banca Popolare di Vicenza, caused the first collapse of a heritage for a region where companies invested and there was the possibility of having funding. We are talking about a world of savers and shareholders who unfortunately invested in shares, finding themselves perfectly conned today. We are faced with people who have believed in executives and officials who were powerless in a bank and who have been persuaded to buy shares, even with the use of criminal manners, perhaps by opening trusts and by offering the shares themselves as collateral. This is the situation on which the decree-law in question is affected, which first of all violates the principle of equality, as set out in Article 3 of the Constitution. The decree-law also discriminates between the same savers, keeping them fundamentally separated on the basis of the different title of credit they boast against the bank. Not only that: there is a difference of treatment also compared to those who were shareholders of Monte dei Paschi di Siena, who had a very different treatment. Here we are faced with shareholders who will not recover anything and will face heavy red tape. What saddens, demoralizes and angers is that it seemed that the Venetian popular banks were protected from all risks. What was given of these banks was an image supported by the media, certified by internal and external control bodies and supported even by prosecutors, who filed complaints already made at the time. We find ourselves with whom he directed all this kind of activity and now we come to discover that the way of working of Banca Popolare di Vicenza and Veneto Banca was made of personalism, clienteleism and help to friends. Today we are faced with a decree-law that absolutely does not allow us to find solutions and that, indeed, seriously violates a constitutional principle, which is to have justice. Operations were carried out with the guilty contribution of the European Central Bank and with the responsibility of the Bank of Italy, Consob and all those who had to intervene and control. But what has failed here is precisely the principle of justice, because the Government in recent years has not made the slightest effort, has taken no action to restore that sense of justice that is demanded by savers and shareholders, having neither been identified nor punished by those responsible. And justice has been denied to savers partners, who have seen sacrificial victims of operations elaborated above their heads. They've lost their life savings. They have also lost the opportunity to have support for old age and illness and now, with the deprivation of rights, they have also lost their dignity. We have taken action to argue that this measure must not be done and that, in any case, it is constitutionally unlawful. We will continue to insist - we have proposed our initiatives, which will also be contained in that motion which we are going to call for discussion - that the penalties for those who commit crimes at a managerial level within the banks be increased: for fraud, forgave-up, for false communications, for obstacles to the exercise of functions and supervision. In the United States, Mr. Zonin would have gone to jail by now. We have cases of derisory crime here. We also want to see a perpetual ban on the exercise of the professions and, above all, management offices, in particular companies and banking institutions. We want the possibility of fraudulent bankruptcy also for these subjects, which will therefore become attributable to them. We want to increase the audience of savers admitted to refreshment procedures. Last but not least, we also ask that any compensation paid to shareholders be at least excluded from income taxes and, at least, from any revocation actions. We are faced with a drama in Veneto. If we look at the amount of damage done to the disaster, to the bad management of Banca Popolare di Vicenza and Veneto Banca, it is like seeing the value of the damage we suffered during the war updated to date. We have the same values. A population that has great dignity and will continue to work has been brought to its knees. But dignity has been lost. We want justice and there is real action on these institutions, to give citizens the chance of refreshment and businesses to move forward. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-07-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-863.ana.u118	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-07-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-863.ana.u119	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-07-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-863.ana.u120	ENDRIZZI (M5S). Mr President, this country will not emerge from the emergency until the political class, elected in Parliament with electoral laws for its use and consumption, lives, thriving and lucrative on emergencies. In emergencies he manages to impose all his lowness, every grotesque decision on the people. The emergencies are the Trojan horse for any cunning, such as - for example - giving two banks at the price of one euro to the first Italian banking group and ensuring that in this operation it is the State, that is the citizens, to cover costs and risks. What business? To repay savers: this was an urgent measure. Billions, on the other hand, have faded and are taken away from the economy of Veneto and North-East. You let the consumers, the savers die, and now you're dumping the costs of a late rescue on the taxpayers. I'll tell you in Veneto: he's ashamed! [[Applause from the M5S Group]] No one wants to leave the workers in the middle of a road, but this also applies to many other productive realities ignored by the Government. No one wants, after thousands of savers, even currentists to be overwhelmed, but the solution was another: to nationalize. If the State had to put the resources to heal them, it could and had to be the State that reaped the benefits. Two public banks in Veneto, with a clean governance, would have played the role of spreading credit to families, stimulating consumption, and towards healthy businesses, choked by credit crunch: this was an urgent measure. What emerges from the investigations is that Lorsignori lent easy money to politicians, such as the 7.5 million data to Verdini to pay the penalties for the irregularities of the Florentine Cooperative Credit, or to friends who were not - as it were - solvent, from the old Alitalia to the Acqua Marcia by Francesco Bellavista Caltagirone, and we are still waiting to have the complete list of all subjects. That would be very enlightening. Sometimes this was against the very opinion of the bank's technicians. Meanwhile, customers without saints in paradise, for credit, were induced to buy shares of a bank that was becoming a cholabrodo. To nail responsibilities: this was an urgent measure. On the other hand, you have been able to reject the urgent calendarization of our motion on this matter. And great responsibilities have also the Venetian colleagues of the PD: I refer to Senators Santini, Filippin, Dalla Zuanna and Puppato. The citizens must know that this decree implicitly helps those responsible to get away with it, because if, in the face of a failure that is already in fact, the perpetrators were likely to be prosecuted for fraudulent bankruptcy, the limitation limits would rise, and perhaps we will have the hope of seeing the trials concluded. So instead it is gravely likely the prescription. The one against the prescription is the mother of all battles. The 5 Star Movement requires that, after a conviction at first instance, citizens have a guarantee that justice is done. You bet on the clogging of justice to ensure impunity. I'm telling you, he's ashamed. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] You must know that nothing like impunity stimulates new evil and new corruption. The prosecutors are exhausted: Treviso is third in the court-citizen relationship. Four judges and two alternates are missing. Minister Orlando says there are no shortcomings. But the League also has its responsibilities. What did he do? He ruled Treviso, the Region and had the Minister of Justice Castelli. Those responsible for the economic devastation of the North-East will remain unpunished if additional resources are not given. We need an extraordinary pool: this is an urgent measure. We are dealing not with a sudden earthquake, but with an agony that has lasted almost ten years. The global banking crisis has been known since 2008. Other governments, of much stronger economies, intervened massively: 400 billion dollars of direct and indirect interventions to the claims considered at risk of the banking system were immediately arranged by George W. Bush. In the United Kingdom 50 billion pounds of state investment were allocated and 41 billion asked Spain to the State-Save Fund, also financed by us Italians, also in debt. Germany intervened with the beauty of 197 billion of capital increases and toxic securities detected by the Federal State and the Länder: a figure - data from the European Commission - which is worth 7% of German GDP. While the disaster was before everyone's eyes and all states recognized the danger, in Italy it was spoken as follows. On 10 October 2008, Berlusconi said: "Italy has the most solid banking system in Europe." A few days later, Bersani explained that Italy had the most solid banking system, because there had been good supervision by the Bank of Italy and he also added that, as bitter as it might turn out, this was also due to Fazio, as it is now due to Draghi. On 7 October 2011, Fabrizio Saccomanni, Managing Director of Banca d'Italia, stated: Credit institutions have an absolutely adequate degree of soundness and capitalization in relation to European standards. In January 2012, Mario Monti, President of the Council, said: "The Italian banking system is among the most stable on international comparison." On 5 August 2013, Enrico read, President of the Council, said: The recovery is close and the Italian banking system is solid. In April 2014, Luca Zaia, President of the Veneto Region, in front of the shareholders' meeting of Veneto Banca, intervened on the already scarce and late controls of Bankitalia: The Bank of Italy's attack on Veneto Banca was an unprecedented attack on our identity and autonomy, which is part of a plan against all local, popular and Bcc banks. From today the battle is getting harder and harder and it is good that Consoli has remained. On December 29, 2015, "the bomb" could not be missing, Matteo Renzi, who declared that the Italian banking system is solid and I would not change it to the German one. All the parliamentary bow, but I could say of the single party, which we can recognize in the wretched words of Piero Fassino - Â We have a bank Â - kept the ham on his eyes and lifted the bread from the mouth to the Venetians. To intervene only a few years ago would have allowed to limit the damage. While politics danced on the Titanic, the banks saw instead the escape of the accountants, worsening the conditions. And the Venetian economic fabric has suffered dramatic consequences that, at macro level, will require enormous sacrifices, while at the level of individuals, individual companies and families, life plans have been blown away and life itself has ended forever. It is therefore clear that the requirements of necessity and urgency, even if they exist, are a consequence of inertia, omerty and incompetence, if not of cynical calculation, since today we are witnessing a sudden acceleration that allows a direct pact with a private subject, without the necessary guarantees of transparency, and a waste of public resources. This is a decree-law that gives Banca Intesa more than 5 billion euros to keep its own levels of assets unchanged and 12 billion euros of guarantees, which also cover it from risks, obligations and commitments involving Intesa-Sanpaolo for facts prior to the sale. Mr President, the Constitutional Court has stated that for a decree-law urgency cannot be merely stated apodictically, but it must be seen in the content of the provision. On the one hand, if one considers it necessary to intervene, on the other hand, we must denounce the fact that this situation has been created not by an earthquake, but by the Government and the supervisory bodies, that the proposed solution leaves the main priorities completely undiscovered, the rights of savers - which is a mockery of Article 47 of the Constitution - and the rights of citizens to have justice and to see public resources well used. The decree-law comes armored and confidence will be placed on an unacceptable and offensive text. We have no chance that the real needs and needs of the country will eventually be respected. The 5 Star Movement, therefore, considers that the conditions set out in Article 77 of the Constitution do not exist. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-07-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-863.ana.u121	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-07-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-863.ana.u122	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-07-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-863.ana.u123	DE PETRIS (Misto-SI-SEL). Mr President, as the Italian Left yesterday in the Commission, we voted against the conditions of necessity and urgency of this decree-law, for a very simple and well-known reason. We can, in fact, define what we are discussing here as a delayed and procrastinated necessity and urgency. What we have always highlighted, even when it comes to the decree-law relating to the Mount of the Paschi, is that these situations, in recent years, have come to be created in the silence of the Government. On the contrary, and not only in 2008, Minister Padoan, in the face of the dangers that were manifested, in reference first to the Mount of the Paschi and then also to the banks we are dealing with, has always spoken with words that reassured with which he maintained that we must remain calm and that our banking system is solid. We are therefore talking about conditions of necessity and urgency deferred, with reference to compliance with the requirements of Article 77 of the Constitution, because once again the solution that the Government has proposed for the rescue of the two Venetian banks is characterized by the usual approach. We have tried, that is, to procrastinate the intervention as much as possible, creating very serious problems. This has also been the case for other crises, but in this particular case the choice has been made to try not to interfere with the local elections, postponing as long as possible the decree-law. Moreover, with a brief political note, given how the elections went, I would like to point out that this postponement did not serve much the majority or the Democratic Party. This is an intervention of necessity and urgency delayed, because I remember that already in April 2017 the European Commissioner for Competition Margrethe Vestager, in the margins of a summit with the Italian Government, revealed some very surprising background regarding delays and the recovery plan of the two credit institutions, which left no room for any interpretative doubt. Citing the sources, according to the Commissioner, in view of the approaching elections in June, a possible rescue of the two banks by the Government would have been a burden on the consensus. The situation of the two banks has been known for at least a year and the Government, instead, declared that the intervention of the so-called Atlas Fund would be decisive; in a year it was thus burned 3.5 billion euros. Now with the decree-law to our examination given from 5 to 20 billion to Banca Intesa, without the public having even an action. It is a beautiful gift, without ever raising the question of the establishment of a real public bank in support of a credit policy for investment, particularly for small and medium-sized enterprises. Rather than, therefore, rethinking the current banking discipline in depth, we are trying in every way to buffer. And unfortunately, the storms to deal with the crisis are constantly delayed, for a number of political reasons. And while you understand the responsibilities of everything that happens, you decide not to charge the real ones. And I remember, unfortunately, the separation of the two types of banks, commercial and business, was - in our opinion - one of the causes of everything that happened not only in Italy, but also internationally. We then come to the issues most relevant to the constitutional profiles. In the days following the enactment of the decree-law, the Board of Directors of Banca Intesa expressly asked, through an official statement, that the transaction had no impact on its assets and on its policy of distribution of dividends and that, however, the positive outcome of the transaction would be subordinate to a parliamentary path that touched nothing. So think about the level we've reached. Parliament must work and examine the decree-law - on which you put your trust in the House, which you will also put here - with the gun pointed out, in the sense that, if you venture to make some changes that we do not like, the contract is declared void. I don't think anything like this has ever happened in the history of the Republic. We are not talking - always from the point of view of constitutionality, which we will of course also address in the preliminary question, and the presuppositions of necessity and urgency - about the fact that a sort of creative constitutionalism has been created. In fact, the stability of the banking system in relation to social creditors has been decreed as a primary interest. We are also not talking about the blatant violation of Article 3 and, that is, the principle of equality. It is clear to all that, as a result of this decree-law, those who will suffer from the situation of the two Venetian banks, i.e. savers, have been treated in a very different way than others. I would also like to point out that, within the decree, there are always derogations from general rules. We could list them all and - in our opinion - there is a clear conflict with the principle of equality. Let us not forget the violation of Article 41 on freedom of economic initiative or of Article 47 on the protection of savings, expressly and solemnly mentioned in our Constitution. The derogations included in this decree-law concern the general system of public invitations to tender. In this respect, individual negotiations and a derogation from the Antitrust control are envisaged. We even have a number of derogations - I remember this serious aspect - from urban and environmental laws. The article 3, paragraph 2, of the provision speaks, in fact, of derogations also in this field to leave free hand in real estate management to Banca Intesa, after all the gift made him. For all these reasons, all we can do is announce our vote against. [[Applause from Senator Petraglia.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-07-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-863.ana.u124	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-07-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-863.ana.u125	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-07-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-863.ana.u126	BONFRISCO (FL (Id-PL, PLI)). Mr President, a decree-law arrives in the Senate Chamber showing a merciless picture of what has happened in recent years to the Italian banking system and the Italian economy and, in particular, to those banks which, being closer to the real Italian economy that lies on the territories, which composes our model of industrialization, that is, the small and medium-sized enterprise, have suffered more a crisis born elsewhere and violently dumped on the European economic and financial fabric; a crisis to which Europe has responded, in some ways, in the worst way and, for others, by downloading, in turn, the costs on those considered to be the weakest. This is - alas - the real picture of what happened in Europe in these damn years. In my opinion, it is not correct the reconstruction that has been made to defend a particular banking system and with many facets. What distinguishes us from other European countries is having a strong system of cooperation in our banking system. And when we look at the assessments of Europe, we must always remember that Europe has decided to respond to the financial crisis that is taking place on the planet in the worst possible way, namely, by hiding the ability of those banks of cooperation to evaluate and monitor, and by intervening for the German banks, largely for the European ones, but not for the Italian banks. From this comes the combined arrangement of the crisis and of the assessments of the European Union, which, in order to cancel the risk, imposes capitalization criteria so high that it puts in trouble our banking system, which is made up of large, medium and small banks, that is, a difference and competition that have always guaranteed our country the best use of leverage in the development and support of companies. This is the context in which we must lower our assessment of the merits of the issues, but also of the constitutionality of the measure. I do not think it is useful today to determine whether Decree-Law No. 99 of 2017 is urgent or not. It would have been urgent, as you all said (and you could place it, even within those European rules that aimed to eliminate the peculiarities of Italy, to put them in trouble, and they succeeded), long ago. On the other hand, there is a profoundly unconstitutional fact that we have dealt with the three major cases of crisis and financial crunch of Banca Etruria, Banca delle Marche (small credit institutions that constituted a very small percentage in the Italian banking system) and Monte dei Paschi di Siena, which instead constituted a significant force in the numbers of the Italian banking system, and then of the popular banks of Veneto, even more important were only due to the enormous amount of savings they held and which has little to do with those parameters in terms of the liquidity that the European Union wants to impose on us. All three of these major cases have been dealt with in a completely different way: sometimes in agreement with the European Union in exchange for something else, at other times in the case of Bank Etruria, the worst treatment. In the case of the Venetian banks, however, to all this is added also the mockery of a Government that, for the first time, manages to introduce a peculiarity to which we have not yet witnessed. We could nationalise those banks, and not just the Venetian ones; we could participate in those banks, as the German Government did for example with its banks; we could guarantee competition from the market, i.e. free competition between private individuals. In the case of the banks of Veneto to the damage is added the mockery, because some other private institutional investor, moreover subject to the recent reform of the banks of cooperative credit, had made a proposal to resolve the issue, thus maintaining that peculiar characteristic of proximity to the territory and the system of small and medium-sized enterprises that we all care about. However, this was prevented by the European Union, for which the solution could only be represented by a large bank. The real unconstitutionality profile of Decree-Law No. 99 of 2017 lies simply in the fact that with it the Government socializes all the losses and guarantees the privatization of those profits that there will be - and God knows how many there will be - to a single bank, in homage to that European vision that we contract, so the banking system must be done by two or three big banks, while instead every trace of dusting on the territory, which I consider an element that favors the competition and has helped the system of enterprises to survive even in the hardest years of the crisis. Moreover, if there had not been those banks, I do not think there would have existed the North-East model; if there had not been those banks in the Marches, would the company and the economy of that Region have been those that have become? No, not at all. And then I would like to ask the government if it does not realize, Undersecretary Baretta, that for the first time we introduce a legislative innovation: a mandatory trust that, instead of voting on it to the government in compliance with the democratic rules of this country, we vote on a bank. Because that bank has allowed itself to write - and you have accepted this condition - that no modification of that text could have been accepted by Banca Intesa. Then next time, let the laws be made by Banca Intesa! [[Applause from Senators Fucksia, Quagliarello and Di Giacomo.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-07-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-863.ana.u127	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-07-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-863.ana.u128	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-07-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-863.ana.u129	DE PIN (GAL (DI, GS, MPL, RI)). Mr President, the only urgency for the Venetian banks was the Commission of Inquiry, which the Secretary of the Democratic Party promised us, as we all remember. Then, of course, like all his promises, she went into oblivion. I presented first a draft law for the establishment of a Commission of Inquiry into Venetian banks, as early as the autumn of 2016; I must remember that. This decree-law of Minister Padoan is a total outrage against Articles 1 and 47 of the Constitution. On the basis of this measure, it should be savers and workers who pay for a bad management, for huge loans granted without any guarantee. It condemns thousands of small and medium-sized savers, in fact, to see themselves take away all possible hope of asserting their reasons, in the face of documented and criminal actions aimed at deceiving them. This story does not concern professional investors or speculators, but simple people and family savings. It concerns workers and small and medium-sized entrepreneurs, who have always been the beating heart of the Veneto Region, who have committed suicide or tried to do so; it concerns all those who had relied on those savings to ensure a decent life for their children, after years of hard work; it concerns all failed companies and all those who had a guaranteed place thanks to those same companies. And, finally, it concerns all those who risk losing their homes. A few days ago, the Ecofin, the European Council of Economic and Financial Affairs, decided that each individual state should set up a bad bank, within which all the inexpensive credits of banks, the famous NPLs, will have to be combined, as will the two Venetian banks. Confedercontributenti Veneto, however, has already analyzed over 4,000 NPLs, noting that more than 3,000 of these are contestable for different illicits and contractual and accounting vices. This is yet another schizophrenic measure that Europe is imposing on us, with the full and unconditional cooperation of our Government, which gives tens of billions to the banks, leaving thousands of families and companies in desperation.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-07-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-863.ana.u130	We shall now proceed to the vote. Verification of the statutory number MARTELLI (M5S). We're asking for a quorum check. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators, by electronic procedure. (The request is supported). I therefore call on the senators to make their presence known by electronic means. (Follows the quorum check.) The Senate has a quorum. Resumption of the debate on the resolution pursuant to Rule 78 (3) of the Rules of Procedure on the draft law n. 2879 PRESIDENT. I put to the vote the favourable opinion expressed by the first permanent Commission, pursuant to Rule 78 of the Rules of Procedure, regarding the existence of the conditions required by the second paragraph of Article 77 of the Constitution, as well as the requirements laid down by the legislation in force, with regard to Decree-Law No. 99. It's approved.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-07-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-863.ana.u131	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-07-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-863.ana.u132	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-07-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-863.ana.u133	GIROTTO (M5S). Mr President, I rise to ask for the answer to Question 3-03815, which I signed first, on the agricultural sector, in which a very important crisis is taking place. I would like to ask for a moment's attention, because this is a very important sector for Italy, involving 1.5 million companies, and more than 800,000 employed, mostly in small companies. The sector is in crisis because the prices of agricultural products (fruit and vegetables) have been falling for years, but I am referring to wholesale prices, those that are paid to the producer, not those that actually arrive on the market. The citizen, therefore, has no benefit whatsoever, while, on the other hand, farms are suffering, because with the continuous fall in the prices at which their products are paid, they are literally unable to survive. Now that our country has also ratified the Treaty between the European Union and Canada (CETA), we fear further repercussions. With Question 3-03815, which I have tabled together with other colleagues, the Ministers for Agriculture, Food and Forestry Policy and Economic Development are asking what action they intend to take urgently to stop this bleeding of agricultural holdings. I repeat that this is a very important sector, involving 1.5 million farms and 800,000 workers, in which we cannot afford any further losses. For these reasons, I would ask the Ministers to answer this question as a matter of urgency. [[Applause from Senator Nugnes.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-07-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-863.ana.u134	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-07-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-863.ana.u135	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-07-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-863.ana.u136	BLUNDO (M5S). Mr President, since the Committee of Inquiry has not yet been convened on the reconstruction of the territories affected by the earthquake in L'Aquila in 2009, I assume that the two parliamentary groups have not yet designated the senators who should be part of that Commission and with their conduct continue, until now, to prevent the Commission from already operating. I would also like to address the Presidency directly here: it would be important to know which groups do not want to be made clear, through a committee of inquiry, on the events relating to the reconstruction of the Eagle. Some national and local press sources, just yesterday, announced 10 new arrests and 35 new suspects in post-sysm procurement. These include civil servants, professionals, entrepreneurs and representatives of the Regional Secretariat of the Ministry of Cultural Heritage and the Superintendence for Architectural and Landscape Heritage. I have also suffered an act of vandalism against my car, but I will not stop: I will continue to ask for this Commission of Inquiry to leave. I would remind the Presidency once again that the Commission of Inquiry was decided by this House on 10 November last, with the approval of the relevant document at my first signature. Since then, a very long period of time has passed that would have allowed for an already incisive job. On my car it was written: "State= criminal cops". I am and will continue to be on the side of those who want legality and I expect this House to do its duty soon, by appointing the Committee of Inquiry into Eagle. As for the vandalism act, the provincial commander and the Carabinieri dell'Aquila are already taking care of it. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-07-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-863.ana.u137	The motions, questions and questions received by the Presidency will be published in Annex B to today's report.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-07-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-863.ana.u138	The Senate will meet again in two public sessions on Tuesday 25 July, the first at 11 a.m. and the second at 4.30 p.m., with the following agenda: (See agenda) The sitting was closed at 12.20 a.m.
